ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u1	We will continue with the debate on a quick solution to the problems of nitrogen and PMAS. We had arrived at the answers from the cabinet. I'll give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u2	Thank you, Madam President. The division of roles is that I will first make a number of introductory remarks and take on board a number of questions relating to the submission of draft laws and the further process. Then the Minister for Agriculture will talk about matters relating to agriculture and nature. The Minister for the Environment and Living will talk about the housing projects and the pfas. Of course, the Minister of IenW will have spoken about the IenW projects and the source measures that relate directly to our infrastructure. So that's the division of roles. I have considered making a very long introduction, but I do not think I am going to please you with that. So I'm gonna answer questions. It may only be that there will be a single interruption. Then I will try to deal with this as well as possible and say what I would have liked to say in my introduction to those interruptions. I shall start immediately with the question that best suits itself, namely Mr Futselaar's question about the longer term. He is right: what lies here is no different than a short-term package to prevent unnecessary job losses in construction and infra et cetera in the coming months and next year. So much more needs to be done. We are also working on a much broader list of measures which, if possible, will also be part of a threshold. We'll do that one step at a time. As we speak, the provinces are working on what I call the "coffee pot talks," namely the talks between provinces, municipalities and those involved in the projects that are there. They could be farmers, but they could be others. It looks at what is needed to get nitrogen space, so that it can then be used there. That is the so-called area-based approach. So he is absolutely right: this is not the letter. The letter was the letter of October 3 or 4. We have set out our lines in this. This is the first subsequent letter, which concerns the short term. The follow-up will cover the more extensive list of measures and, of course, the further reports to you on how the talks in the provinces are going to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u3	Thank you to the Prime Minister for that answer. It took six months to reach the measures in the short term. I myself have had some experience in a previous life with field processes at county level. They often last for years. So can the Prime Minister give us some insight into how quickly we can actually expect longer-term plans? We cannot wait years and years to really solve the fundamentals of the nitrogen problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u4	We're trying to come up with a broader threshold. That thought, and the construction of a list of source measures that feed on it, we want to try to put an end to it in the coming weeks. What Mr Futselaar is referring to is the talks that are taking place in the provinces, for example with farmers, to see if a farmer who wants to stop wants to sell something to us. Because that gives extra nitrogen space, partly for nature restoration, but partly also maybe for a certain task that lies in the atmosphere of construction or whatever. Those are conversations that just happen. We also take a legal test on whether, if a farmer has been bought out but is not yet gone, when the legal decision has been taken, the amount of money is known et cetera et cetera, so when it is irreversible, that nitrogen space can also be used for nature and other activities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u5	I understand that, but if we want to arrive at a permanent threshold, I think that almost everyone would ever want to do so again, we can only show a substantial reduction in nitrogen sources and at the same time restore nature. If you're always gonna take care of that source approach and that natural recovery in that area-oriented approach, you're gonna be a few years away. There is therefore no permanent threshold in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u6	No, that's not our plan. In fact, you could say that this whole issue should be dealt with strictly by provinces with drivers of nitrogen emissions in the immediate vicinity. Why do we have this package? Why are we working on a broader threshold? We do that to see how you can take care of as much as possible at the level of the provinces and things can regulate nationally. That is what we are doing with this package that we now have for the 75,000 houses and infra projects, but also, of course, the emergency law on coastal reinforcement, maintenance of roads and bridges and dikes. That's this package. The broader threshold is also intended to be taken care of. A number of things will then no longer have to take place at the level of the provinces, because they would then fall below that threshold. But for that we need to define the source measures. That's what we're gonna be working on in the next few weeks. I don't think that's going to happen in one go; I expect that to be a process with a few steps in which you build up such a threshold. But in the meantime, these talks are taking place in the provinces. They're going on, to a greater or lesser extent. We still have to give birth to the policy rule and the buy-out regime. So that's how you're gonna take care of things in that area. That's gonna help get those county talks going. That's what we're working on over the next few days and weeks. But those county talks are going on. Of course, there is also an important part of this problem to be addressed, because that is where they know where the sources are and what they should be spent on. Again, then the agreement is always that you use part of that yield for nature restoration, because it has to be. That was also said by a number of you. You cannot immediately use all the proceeds for construction; no, you should also use them for nature restoration.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u7	In fact, the judge said all proceeds must go to nature recovery. So my question is about the peek that the Prime Minister gives us. Long-term measures are still in place. Yesterday we saw the letter in which the cabinet solves 0.6% of the problem after six months. Then we got all the analyses of nature conservation lawyers in the Netherlands, who know about this. They said that this is even worse than the Programme Approach Nitrogen, and not legally sustainable. The first question is: how is that possible? Didn't the cabinet talk to the experts? And the second question is: what conclusions does the cabinet draw on this for the measures to be taken? Because the first exercise has already been fired.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u8	I don't see it that way. Mrs Ouwehand is absolutely right: this is not the package. This is the first emergency package to prevent a number of problems and to prevent, as Mr Harbers said, people from being unemployed at home for Christmas. The Council of State is always asking us to ensure that the restoration of nature is put first. We do that in two ways. One: by using a very important part of the yield for nature recovery and not immediately again for the re-inducing of nitrogen emissions or the risk thereof. And two: by investing a quarter of a billion dollars in nature recovery as such. This means that the remaining part can be used territorially to enable the developments where they are needed. This will create a reduction for nature recovery and we will continue to work on that broader package of source measures. We are convinced that this package will be sustainable. We'll work that out in the next few weeks and discuss it with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u9	But my question was another one. The Prime Minister is now revisiting what they themselves have invented in the coalition negotiations and what they have written in a letter. That letter was criticised by not the least; all the people who have always been right in this file from the judge, just to put it right. I ask the Prime Minister whether this still has consequences for the way in which the cabinet continues with the longer-term measures. It's a simple question. Is the Prime Minister convinced that nitrogen emissions should at least not increase, but decrease? And is he going to continue that in this cabinet? Is that gonna be the starting point?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u10	We are. What we keep doing is not letting the bath flood any further. We're trying to prevent the flooding of the tub. That is also why the restoration of nature must be at the forefront, every time you take a measure. We do this by using a very important part of all the proceeds for nature restoration, regardless of the money we make for it. Take, for example, the reduction in the maximum speed, which actually reduces nitrogen emissions, is limited but very useful now for the start of housing and infrastructure projects. We're not gonna use the proceeds all the way now. Part of it is used for nature restoration and with that we also act entirely in line with the statement that has been made: nature restoration must be paramount. You can't live on the puff. And if you realize nitrogen reduction, you can't fully re-use the yield for projects that may lead to nitrogen emissions again, because the nitrogen quantity itself has to be reduced. That is perfectly clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u11	I am really going a little crazy about it, because the Prime Minister, as a VVD, has also, as a matter of fact, put the words 'nature recovery' and 'nuclear crisis' as a kind of common thread in his response and in the VVD election programme. Stop that for once! There is no nitrogen crisis in the Netherlands! Nature in the Netherlands, with its biodiversity, air quality and water quality, is doing better than ever. Why, Mr. Prime Minister, why are you talking about nitrogen crisis and natural recovery? Why are you abandoning your constituents and entering 100 km/h instead of 130 km/h? Why do you do that? You're not here to run the agenda from the left, are you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u12	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u13	There is no problem with nature in the Netherlands!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u14	We stand here to govern, and Mr Wilders does not. Let me explain why his reasoning is flawed on two points. First of all, he is right in his own right that nature in the Netherlands is not bad at all. The nitrogen-sensitive nature has not improved at the moment. The deposition has decreased considerably, but it's about the effect on nature. When you look at that, you can see that it's still very big. There's a massive accumulation of nitrogen in the soil. We knew that, too. The previous approach, the "on the "poor" approach of the PAS that we have adopted here with broad support, appears to be no longer working. Now to Mr Wilders' solution. It's actually two-fold. He says: you have to continue with the emissions for another six months, because then you have six months more to come up with measures. That's the emergency bill Mr Wilders came up with on Sunday. I can't do that anymore. The second solution is: come up with a threshold. We're working on that. I am curious to hear from Mr Wilders what measures he intends to take to reduce nitrogen levels which are part of the threshold. And how does he intend to prevent the loss of jobs in construction and infrastructure if he does not want to use the only measure that will produce immediate results: lowering the speed limit? I'm curious about the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u15	Do you know what that reduction in the speed limit will do? That no voter in the Netherlands believes you anymore. Those VVD pickers with bushes running away from you at the same time. Your answer is that it's about the deposition value of the nitrogen. Cut the left-wing crap! Stop it! You could have adapted those rules to the German rules. Germany has a value that doesn't affect anyone. If you're going to "What's the 7 moles" or do I know how many moles they are, then they have no problem with building or with farmers. You fight with everyone. You fight with your own voter, who chases you out of the car or lets you drive 100 km/h. Your party is now arguing with your old employers' friends. Your group chairman, a colleague of mine, is arguing with Hans de Boer of VNO-NCW. You're gonna get even the drivers to demonstrate. 15,000 motorists have indicated that they are going to demonstrate. You fight with the farmers, you fight with the builders. You fight with the whole of the Netherlands. Stop it! I thought the VVD was once a right-wing party that stood for vroomvroom and for driving and thought that environmental noise was secondary. Why don't you go back to that road? Why are you running the agenda from the left? Answer my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u16	Mr Wilders is absolutely right. The VVD is a right-wing party, but also a party that, if there are problems, solves them and doesn't stick her head in the sand. And I am going to show that Mr Wilders is sticking his head in the sand along a number of lines. First of all, he refers to Germany, but in Germany the situation is completely different. There the nature reserves are much larger because of the size of the land and are at a much greater distance from the sources of nitrogen emissions. So that's not comparable. Attorneys, including ours, have checked to see if we can take over the German system. They all say that would be rejected by the Council of State. That's one when it comes to Germany. So that equation is limp. I'm going to tell Mr. Wilders here...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u17	Nonsense.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u18	I'm gonna finish this. You can't avoid the problem by coming up with tough language and attacking the VVD. I'm fine with that if Wilders is right, but he's not right about this. First of all, he is running away from the only measure to prevent builders, earth movers and others from sitting at home at Christmas unnecessarily: now reduce speed. That is the only way to reduce nitrogen in the very short term, to a limited extent. In the latter he is right, but it does ensure that the construction and road construction projects can get back on track. Two. He comes up with a law that says, "I'm gonna emit nitrogen for another six months." So the judge won't let you do that anymore. Third. If I ask him what action he intends to take to reduce that nitrogen, he will not answer. And why doesn't he? Because governance is difficult, because you have to come up with difficult measures. Mr Wilders does not want that. That's why he's standing here empty-handed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u19	If someone here is empty-handed, with unreliable hands, it is the leader of the VVD. He's been lying to his voter on 20 files over the past few years. I tell you, what the Germans can do, so can we. The answer of the Dutch Prime Minister, the boss of the Dutch administration, is: our lawyers have looked into it. Stop with the lawyers. The politicians run this country. We make the laws here. It is not Brussels that decides it and it is not even the Dutch judge who decides it. If we do not like it, we will make a law or we will make sure that something changes in Europe. If we can't do that, we'll get out and we'll get rules that apply here in the Netherlands. You're too cowardly for that. You're too afraid of that. And I'll tell you why. You are because, as I said to the colleague of the VVD, you have become dependent on the left. After the elections in the House of Representatives, you did not even want to talk to our party, the second party in the country with twenty seats, and you left 1.5 million voters in the cold. You say, "Go away, PVV." As a result, you have to go with D66 and depend on GroenLinks and other left-wing parties. They're hijacking your diary. Why don't you respond to that instead of coming up with your legal gibberish? You've got yourself into trouble and you refuse to get out, because your own place in the Tower and in Box-K is the most important thing for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u20	No!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u21	Now I can finish. You also have an argument with the motorist, with the builder, with the farmers. They're all gonna get it. You only have yourself to thank for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u22	I think only one thing is important: not whether Mr Wilders is happy, but whether we are able to keep those jobs. Indeed, we are currently facing a serious crisis and the risk of job losses in a number of key sectors, while the economy is growing. Then you should see what you're gonna do about it. Then of course you can see what the Germans are doing, but that option is not there for us, as I have just said, and for very good reasons. Then you can look at all the other Wilders head-in-the-sand solutions, but they don't work. I just showed you that. So you have to come up with real measures and not say you're going to emit another six months. You have to come up with real measures. Wilders does not want the only short-term measure to prevent job losses, i.e. to reduce speed. Because it doesn't make him popular. He knows that it is the only measure to prevent short-term job losses in construction and infra. Second. He says, "I'm gonna eject another six months." That doesn't work, and that's not allowed anymore. It also means, just as Harbers and others said, that in six months you will have to solve an even bigger problem. That brings me to the third. Wilders doesn't come up with any measures to reduce nitrogen. You cannot say: there is a problem, but I ignore it and try something in Brussels or make a law. This is not just to be solved in Brussels or by law. Here's a real problem with that nitrogen. We thought we had a solution, but it doesn't seem to work. The judge said no to that. Sometimes, I say to Mr Wilders, we politicians have to make difficult decisions in difficult circumstances. Then it's fair to say the same thing to your own constituents. The same applies to Mr Wilders. It would be a credit to him if he did so and supported cabinet policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u23	There's no crisis at all. As I said in my first term, there is the crisis. You are the crisis of the Netherlands. Prime Minister Rutte is the crisis of the Netherlands. We don't have a nitrogen crisis. Looking at a big morning paper this morning, I believe De Telegraaf. The nitrogen emissions in the Netherlands go down like an arrow. It's falling! The environment, the climate: everything is improving in the Netherlands. From water to ground, you name it. I'm better. We don't have a crisis! You're gonna let that crisis talk to you from the left. There is no such thing and it cannot come up with a solution for a non-existent problem. You have to stop. Why can't we do what Germany does? What you need to do is to make sure that these values are such that farmers and builders can build and that everything can go on. But you won't. You are making a problem of a non-existent problem and you are letting the citizens, the farmers, the builders and the motorists be ruined. Here's what I'm telling you, Mr. Rutte. I had prepared you for this question. You think you're already having a hard time with your VVD pickers who, I think, leave in bushes if you let them drive 100 km/h. But Mr De Groot of D66 just said: this is only the amuse of the seven-course dinner. That's not a text written in a letter. It is probably not a text that is in an agreement either, but it came from the heart of a partner of your coalition: this is only the amuse of the seven-course dinner. I ask you, Prime Minister, how much more do you steal? How much more do you accept? How many courses of that farm menu do you still accept about manure? You're already being whined and sarcastic. According to the newspaper, on Monday, you said that I might as well cancel my party, the VVD. If what RTL wrote down is true, you said: then I might as well lift the party if I have to go to 100 km/h. We're just at the amuse! Next time, the CDA will be tarred with measures about farmers and about manure. Then it'll be the people in the country when the planes get their turn. How much longer are you gonna make it? You have people in the coalition who leak what you say and defy you! When are you gonna stand up for your voter? When do you stand up for the Netherlands? Or are you going to ride the Netherlands in the next economic crisis? You have to stop! You must say: enough is enough! You have to say: away D66, I'm not going to do that with that crazy nature and 100 km/h; I'm the VVD, I'm Rutte, look at it, if you have to, rather elections than the Netherlands in the crisis. Why don't you? Cowardice, great cowardice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u24	What Mr Wilders is doing is avoiding the reality that sometimes difficult measures must be taken in life. He does that by referring first to Germany and then saying that it can be resolved by law and that we can settle it in Brussels. I can't do any of that. If you can't do that, as a driver, you have to take responsibility. Mr Wilders does not do that. He is running away from the difficult measure to reduce speed, knowing that this will create jobs. He runs away from the responsibility to explain how he wants to reduce nitrogen emissions, knowing that this is necessary. Mr Wilders can then blame the cabinet for taking those measures, but if we do not, this will lead to unnecessary job losses in the Netherlands. While the economy is going well, sectors are getting into unnecessary trouble. That's not taking responsibility. I recognize once again Mr Wilders from the Catshuis in 2012: seven weeks of negotiation and eventually, if he thinks that this is a package that he cannot explain to his electorate and that he may harm him in the polls, he will run away from the negotiating table as Zoef de Haas. Who's a coward, Mr. Chairman? It's just one person and it's right there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u25	After all these years, I'd say, you know, come up with something new. But back to my question. You are standing here to answer my question and not the other way around.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u26	Oh, you're afraid of my question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u27	No, you have to answer my question. And my question is, how much more can you be defyed? D66 just said in his own term that this is only an amuse of the seven-course dinner. One of the other parties leaks that you would have said on Monday that you might as well cancel your party. There are still hundreds of measures coming and you are already on your knees crying for those 100 km/h. You wanted to cancel your party, according to a report by RTL News last Monday. That means you've been touched in your soul. While you lie on the ground shaking and are touched in your soul to do what you need to do, when you really need to lift your party, D66 says cynically and almost sadistic: this is just the amuse of the seven-course dinner. So there is still a great deal to come for farmers, for manure, for aviation and perhaps also for motorists. My question is how far you are going to be defyed. Because you ignored us two years ago after the election, you became their slave. You've become a prisoner. They've taken you hostage. Where does it end, Mr. Rutte? Let us forget about this debate and these measures. How far does it have to go? How far are you going to be defyed? Should the speed limit be 80 km/h? Should there be €100 on top of a ticket? Do the farmers have to be bought out until we lose half the cattle? How far do you have to go? How far should they go until you say enough is enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u28	I only have one goal in this job. That is to make sure that we pass this country on to the next generation. We are currently a country with a record number of jobs. We have been the most successful economy in Europe for several months, for the first time in a long time. Perhaps it is the first time in all history that we are among the world's four strongest economies, with Hong Kong, Singapore and America. Then I'm very proud of it. Control also means that you are faced with extremely difficult problems. The first task of a leader is not to stick his head in the sand, to quickly make a law if that is not possible at all, or to say: the problem is not there; it does not come out to me; the Germans... No, sometimes you just have to tackle problems head-on. That's leadership. The reason why the PVV stays at fifteen or sixteen seats is that, in my opinion, the Netherlands realizes that Mr Wilders does not take that responsibility and always runs away when it is difficult. People don't fall for that anymore. The VVD-chooser, and everyone in the Netherlands who goes to the polls, for all parties, understands the choice between keeping jobs and driving 130 km/h and know that as a result many people may be at home without a job for Christmas. We are then prepared to settle in a little bit in this country, to stand shoulder to shoulder and have something for each other. We'll be ready to slow down. That's leadership. I wish Mr Wilders a little bit more of that as leader of his party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u29	Again no answer to my question, again you-bake, again generalities. Let me try another way. Is it true that on Monday, in consultation with the coalition partners, you said something in the vein of "I might as well cancel my party"?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u30	Whether or not something has been said in those meetings, I'm not going to talk about that at all. I'm not gonna talk about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u31	Isn't that okay with me to ask?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u32	You may ask for anything, but I am not going to tell you in what context things have been said in those consultations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u33	So the Prime Minister doesn't deny it. It's easy for him to say he didn't say this. He can easily say: RTL is a liar and it miswritten this. He doesn't say that. Just so we're clear, he's not denying this. In other words, I note at least that he does not deny that he has said: 'I may as well lift my party'. That means he's gotten into his soul. That is why I am making this point. He is now supposed to be the great statesman, with: we must do something, there must be jobs for the construction workers, and you name it. But he's gotten into his soul. He's been tortured. They got him down on his knees and he had almost pulled the plug from the cabinet. What am I saying? He almost pulled the plug from his own party. There's Mr. De Groot, D66's man. He knows you're in pain and according to that same piece of RTL News would have agreed that they wouldn't be sick at the point of 100 km/h. They said they'd leave you alone. Apparently, that's what you agreed to make it a little less difficult for the VVD. At the same time there is a spokesperson of D66 who says: he is only the amuse of the seven-course dinner. Mr. Rutte, you're not gonna last. With what's still coming, I assure you you're not going to last this. If you stick to the plush so much that you accept all of this, the cabinet will be on its ass in six months, or perhaps sooner. You're not gonna do that. My request to you would be to let yourself be honored. Tell them: I'm not gonna take it anymore; I'm not gonna lift my party, I'm gonna stand in front of my constituents and I'm not gonna do this. If you don't, I'll give you a motion of censure today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u34	Yeah, there he is. I've missed him for a while. There is a fundamental political difference here between the viewers and the people who are following this debate. That's fine in itself. I've always called that kind of politics a wrong type of populism. I have nothing against populism. We're all the people's. The wrong kind of populism scares people or says that there is no problem at all and that other people scare you, but is not willing to make problems visible and then solve them. That is what Mr Wilders is doing here. I know him well enough. He knows that the only short-term measure that can keep all these jobs in construction, etc., as much as possible, is the measure of speed. Yeah, that's a bad move. I can't believe it. But for us as a coalition and for all parties, it is a question of taking responsibility and doing so if that is the only thing that has any effect in the short term and prevents building and infrastructure from falling silent. That's taking responsibility. This really is a difference between two political styles here. It's fine that that's visible. I like my style better, namely taking that responsibility. Because that's how I stand in life. And if he asks me, how do you keep it up? I maintain that because I do so from a deep sense of responsibility for this country and from a sense of responsibility for the people I have received in the Catshuis in recent days from the farming sector, but also from the construction sector. People who are anxious and afraid of losing their jobs, and who ask how this is going to develop. People I'm meeting tonight in Brabant-Limburg, in Deurne. That's where farmers and others come in. I'm going to talk to you about this and I'm going to see how, by settling with each other and by organizing it smartly, we can get on with it in a decent and sensible way. But that also includes difficult measures. And he doesn't even want the one measure that delivers in the short term, which drives 100 km/h. So Wilders says, drop the jobs, I'm not willing to, because that's not popular with the voters. That's really wrong politics.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u35	It is indeed two styles. That's a difference between the Prime Minister and me. There's the liar's style and there's the style of telling the truth. The liar... you can nod... and stand there and say, "I'm proud of 130 km/h, we'll do that." The guy who says, "You're all gonna get $1,000 from me, we're gonna do that." The man who says no more money to the Greeks. I can continue with a list, but I won't repeat it all. Each time you come up with another excuse and you say: I am the leader, I have to fill in and I have to do it. But in the meantime, Mr. Rutte, no voter believes you anymore. Your credibility is crawling in the Chamber somewhere. You may have a majority here, and you may be quite well placed in the polls, but people don't trust you anymore. People don't trust you as a person, as prime minister, anymore. Of course we have a solution. Don't tell me we don't have a solution. I say: enter those rules, which have values, into that Germany. You can say it can't be done, but just do it! Europe is not the boss, the judge is not the boss. With our own initiative law, our emergency law, we have ensured that these values do not have to be applied in the next six months. In the meantime, if you do not crawl to Brussels for once, but tell Brussels that we are going to do different things with the Habitats Directive, and if you do not adapt it, then we will not stick to it, or we will leave the Union. I know what you're making up. Hit the table with your hand for once! Why don't you do that instead of bowing? This is bowing and bowing again!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u36	I think you made your point, Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u37	This is the politics of illusion. This is people's politics that there is an easy solution. Wilders' policy is to scare people very much of the problem, or even if it doesn't come out electorally, it is to turn the problem away altogether. Because that's what he's doing: he's wiping out the problem and saying that the coalition is dealing with a problem that there isn't. That's not true. The problem is there. If Wilders were standing here and implementing the policy he was just promoting here, he would take the risk with thousands of jobs over the next few months, because he is not prepared to take an unpopular measure. Mr. Wilders, it's been since 2012. You've taken responsibility for a while since 2012. I wonder how you can keep it up with how you're in politics. You might be doing it for a while, you look healthy, so you seem to be having fun. But I've really been psychic about what fun you can get out of it when you know you're talking nonsense and psyching people out. How can you keep going like that? That fascinates me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u38	Mr Wilders, you will have the floor, but I think you made your point. The word "liar" has fallen a few times, but that is not entirely appropriate in a debate, despite the differences of opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u39	No, Mr. Chairman, I'm really sorry, but if lies are being said, I'm gonna call someone a liar, no matter what you say. But it's not about what the Prime Minister says to me. It's that old you-bake again. Again, the PVV is taking its responsibility. We stick our necks out. We are putting forward a constructive initiative proposal, giving you six months to think about solutions not to have to apply those rules. It's possible. Instead of saying: great, what constructive Wilders, you say: run away, 2012. It's an initiative law we've been working on for weeks. This will solve the problems at the moment. If you're a guy and if you're going to London or Brussels and, like Margaret Thatcher in the past with her purse, hitting your eyeglass cover on the table and saying: this has to be different now, I'm Mark Rutte and I'm going to do that, then I can do that. You can do that, but you won't. So I'll stick with it, and then I'll drop it, Mr President, that we don't have a natural problem in the Netherlands and we don't have a nitrogen problem. We have one big problem, and that's what it says: Prime Minister Rutte.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u40	In itself, I greatly appreciate the fact that groups are making legislative initiative proposals. Wilders is right that it takes a lot of time and a lot of energy. That's respectable. But the essence of this bill is to live on the puff. This will make the problem even more serious in six months' time. The other proposal you are making is to ignore the fact that we have other problems here than the Germans. You can't just turn this problem away. While he says all this, he knows that there is one measure that will produce sufficient short-term jobs to keep as many jobs as possible in the construction and infra. He's not prepared to take that measure. He says to all those people: we keep driving in the Netherlands 130 years ago I would love to do that too, but the result is that you may lose your job and then I, Geert Wilders, am willing to explain that. Well, Merry Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u41	I'm watching who was first. Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u42	What did we just look at? We watched for twenty minutes a kind of two old lovers who still have something to fight each other out. Who's the real leader here? "I'm the real leader!" "No, no, me!" We're dealing with one of the biggest crises we've had in recent years, and then this is how we're discussing it here? The cabinet has laid down a package of measures, six months after the judge's ruling, which is far from enough to restore nature and which is far from enough to build homes in those areas where it is needed. How does the Prime Minister look back on that six months? How does he judge his own performance? For the past two weeks, I've seen him in the news a lot. There he was; he had everything under control! But what has happened in the past few months? How was work on solving this problem in the summer? And how is it that there is still no approach to livestock?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u43	First of all, about the debate that Mr Klaver was just looking at. I'm here to debate with Members of Parliament. If I'm interrupted by a Member of Parliament, I answer. So I assume you asked Mr Wilders your question, not me. But I will answer, no matter what I do now to you. I do not therefore regard this criticism as being directed at me. Moreover, I found the debate that Mr Wilders and I had just had useful anyway, because that sort of sets out different political styles and approaches. It's not wrong to do that now and then. You can do that in a civilized way. I think we did. Now for your question. We are faced with the Council of State's ruling at the end of May. From that moment on, also in consultation with the Chamber, the Remkes Committee has been set up to see what needs to be done now to get an idea of all the measures to settle this. The Committee's opinion was published in September. Within two weeks we gave birth to our letter of 3 October, in which we set out exactly how we are going to deal with the two tracks in relation to provinces and the threshold. Then we decided, because of the great concern in the field of job losses in construction and infra, to come up with an emergency package for these sectors. That emergency package is ahead of us today. Would I have wanted that all faster? Yeah, I sure would've wanted that sooner. We would have liked it all to be faster. But it's not like nothing's happened in the last few months. There's been a lot of hard work over the last few months. There is a hugely complex problem of unprecedented magnitude. Mr Klaver is right, or did someone else say that? That MH17 in terms of loss of life is, of course, a thousand times greater than the problem we have here. But in terms of administrative complexity, and looking at the risk of people losing their jobs, what you want to avoid, this is indeed the biggest crisis I have to deal with.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u44	This is the biggest political crisis we're in. Do you know why that is? Administrative reality has changed. For all the things we never had to take into account before, such as climate and nature, there are suddenly limits, and we notice it hard. People's jobs are at risk. For years my party has said: there are limits to growth; you cannot continue to eject. And now it's true. There is a political crisis, because decisions have to be taken by all kinds of parties that do not like those decisions. Think of driving slower and shrinking the livestock. But those parties don't want it. I think I heard the Prime Minister say last night that two weeks ago, only two weeks ago, he heard that if we slow down, we could build 75,000 homes. Then my question is, why didn't you know this summer? Why wasn't that turned off at the time? Yesterday, 247 questions were put jointly by all my fellow Members. We thought, "Hey, finally, there's an approach." 247 questions. Most of the questions are said: we will come back to that. Do we know which farms should be closed yet? Do we know where to build? Do we know what this area-oriented approach should be? We're six months ahead, and we still don't have any answers. This is a mess. This is not an achievement. And then the Prime Minister can be very proud that we are finally going to bring down the maximum speed, but that is not the beginning of a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u45	Would we have wanted it sooner? Yes. Let's talk about the measure of slowing down. Also in the Remkes report and everything we knew about it at that time, this had a direct effect on the nature areas near where 130 is driven. Mr Bishop also referred to this. The insight that I told you yesterday at Nieuwsuur is that we, also in consultation with our advisors, got the insight two weeks ago that, apart from that effect, there is also an effect on the whole nitrogen blanket in the Netherlands, as it is called.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u46	We already knew that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u47	Yes, Mr Klaver may know all this, but that is at least the insight that we received two weeks ago in addition to the Remkes report. Remkes arrived at the end of September and the insight into that effect of the 130 measure came two weeks ago. That is why I have said in my party, and why we have said in my party: then we must seriously consider this now, because then you can do much more with this measure than we thought; then you can actually pull apart the housing, and with it also the infra projects. Would we have wanted it faster? Absolutely. I would've loved to have it faster. But I also look back at how we have worked with Chambers and Cabinets since the end of May, including the setting up of that committee, which reported in September and is now looking further at shipping and aviation, on which further advice will be given. And then, in my opinion, we worked hard together. If anyone here thinks it could have been quicker, I'm the first to plead guilty if he's right; I have no problem with that. But we're right where we are, and we need to figure this out now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u48	Mr Rutte just said: yes, you might have known about the nitrogen blanket. We all fucking knew that! That was public information. The minister sitting next to you knew, too. My colleague Kröger has talked about this so many times. All the advisors in this cabinet, whoever you've spoken to, have talked about it so many times. We knew this in May of last year. We knew it! And now the Prime Minister here says: we would have liked it to be faster. Not at all, because you didn't dare before. I am glad that this step is being taken, but we already knew this for a long time, as we also know that we need to reduce livestock and that this will not only be voluntary, as we know that Schiphol cannot grow and that we cannot open Lelystad, and as we know that we should not restrict and reduce nature in the Netherlands, but expand it. There is a new administrative reality and it is time for us to get used to it quickly and come up with measures. We know what to do; that's not the problem. But do you dare?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u49	Remkes came with his advice at the end of September. A few weeks later we also gained insight into what slower driving does wider than just with nature reserves. Fine if that was known to others before, but Remkes advises on this. The effect on the nitrogen blanket is then also known. We need to get that passed on. We need those numbers. We have been working for two weeks, since last Thursday until last Tuesday, to map out exactly how to do that and whether it will produce enough in combination with animal feed, because we are also going to do something about it, and a further warm clean-up of pig farming. That is the letter before us today with the emergency package. I'm not gonna defend myself against people who think we could have done things faster. If we can prove that with each other, that's fine. Well, that's my responsibility. I'm not running away from that either. But we're here today, November 14, working on this package. We are working on the other tracks as we explained in early October. We need to get on with that now. There are all kinds of suggestions coming from the Chamber that we involve in our policy. We do not agree on everything, but it is important to take this step now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u50	Of course we have to take this step, but we should have done that a long time ago. I called it a failure in my first term. I found that hard, but I am now more convinced than ever that this was a failure. If you really say "that information, you might know it, I do not," then I think: you are Prime Minister; it is your job to know this. You cannot say on the one hand 'this is the biggest crisis of my premiership' and on the other hand 'well, and I only heard two weeks ago that it would really help'. We knew this. This was public information. This also means that we need to move faster now. Lelystad can't grow. Indeed, we need to halve the livestock. That's gonna have to happen sometimes. That is an uncomfortable truth, but we need to switch to it as soon as possible and take those steps. I stand before the Prime Minister here, but I also say to him: the moment he is prepared to take those steps, I stand alongside him to do it together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u51	If Mr Klaver and everyone knew exactly what had to be done at the end of May, why did the Chamber and Cabinet decide to set up the Remkes Committee? We did this because we wanted to get a precise picture of the problem with a precise list of measures and so on. We started working on it right after the publication of the report at the end of September. This led to the letter of early October, to the further development of the two tracks and now to this emergency package. That's what we're doing. Furthermore, Mr Klaver is quite right to say that much more needs to be done. This is therefore an emergency package. Much more needs to be done. We'll be working hard on that in the next few weeks. We will report on this step by step to the Chamber, building up to that wider threshold, if possible. Furthermore, we want to facilitate the discussion in the provinces as well as possible in order to detach the projects in an area-oriented approach. That is the only way to solve this problem step by step. But don't let anyone throw sand in their eyes that this is an easy problem with an easy solution. Mr Klaver does not say that, but that might be a bit of a reflection of what I hear here and there in the debate. It just isn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u52	This is extremely complex.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u53	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u54	And the solutions are hugely far-reaching for society, but it's not like we don't know what to do. Because the solutions are so profound for society, there is a lot of resistance. Because they go against the administrative reality that has been the norm here for years, it is so difficult for political parties to take that step. But it's necessary. If the Prime Minister is doing the trick now, because after all these years he continues to be a fantastic debater and says that the whole Chamber also wanted a report and that we had to wait for it, then perhaps next time a committee is going to study we should say explicitly that the Prime Minister does not have to sit on his hands and that he should also be able to figure something out. 'Cause that's what it's about. Why hasn't there been any further research over the past few months into what measures we need to take so that everything is ready and we can do it? The past few months have been lost months, and the Prime Minister is responsible for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u55	If things could have been done faster, I'd be the first to acknowledge mistakes. If that's demonstrable, fine. But I think that Mr Klaver is really proposing it too simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u56	Every citizen is supposed to know and comply with the law. In fact, the Prime Minister says here: directors, the Minister responsible for nature policy, myself as Prime Minister, the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State and the Secretary of State do not only have to understand what the law says, but they do not have to abide by it. That's what the Prime Minister says here. Why did the Chamber need a Remkes commission? Why did the cabinet set up a Remkes commission? Yeah, that's what I'm wondering. We have a minister who is responsible for nature policy, who should know in her ministry what can and cannot be done, given their own goals. I have already mentioned the Biodiversity Convention and the Birds and Habitats Directive and the enormous acidification of our natural areas due to ammonia from livestock farming. I'll put the question back. How is that possible? These are the drivers, with buildings full of civil servants. This cabinet doesn't know by itself what it has to do, what it needs to do to protect nature, to make the stagnant housing run smoothly, while legal experts outside this Chamber and also people in this Chamber know all that. I want an answer to that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u57	There was even a ruling by the European Court of Justice on 7 November last year that the system of the Programmed Approach Nitrogen that we had and which we thought worked, with broad support, not everyone, but broad, was admissible. Heavy demands were made on the justification, but the system was admissible. That was last November. At the end of May, we drove against the barrier of the Council of State as a society. I blame that not the Council of State, not for a second. He made a ruling and said as the supreme administrative judge: this cannot be done. That is their right, and that is also their duty to do so if they think so, and then we must relate to it. But it's not like the sirens were singing on board all ships years ago. I know there have been a number of warnings about this approach to the PAS. I also know that there was broad political support for this approach. I also know that in November last year Europe said: this is possible. And that's how we did it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u58	I'm not impressed by that. I would like to ask the Prime Minister to reflect on the little debate that has just taken place with Mr Wilders, because if this is the level at which the cabinet goes further, we will never get out of it. The Prime Minister himself created what Mr Wilders is doing here. Half the Netherlands says: nitrogen problem, what do they come up with now? That is because we have never heard this cabinet, the Minister of Agriculture and the Prime Minister, who has been at the helm for nine years, say that we are not doing well with our nature; we are losing plant and animal species, we are acidifying our soil, we have so little calcium on the Veluwe that they are already breaking their feet in the nest. Never, never, ever have I heard this Prime Minister explain to the Netherlands that we have to protect nature, that it is going badly and that we have to do more. This now gives the impression that the VVD has made a very great sacrifice: 100 kilometers, man, man, and that D66 is the savior of nature in this cabinet. That's not true. Nothing's gonna happen. There is a deletion in nature areas and asphalt is added and the livestock is not shrinking. The Prime Minister must reflect on this, because he is now on the move to ensure that the Netherlands is involved in the measures that need to be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u59	I want to take responsibility for many things, but not for the fact that Mr Wilders is here and what he finds and says. That's really out of line. He is, of course, right to some extent when he says in his contribution that nature, also thanks to all kinds of recovery measures, has improved on it and that nitrogen in itself has decreased in size. The problem is only, as I have just argued, that although so, the effects are still very large on those parts of nature that are nitrogen-sensitive, and those are large parts of nature. This means that there is no major problem in many parts of our country. But there are all kinds of parts of the country. Look at Overijssel, Drenthe, Gelderland, parts of Brabant and the coastal area here where these problems are very big, because they are very nitrogen-sensitive. That has to do with the subsurface, the soil et cetera, et cetera. Overall nature in the Netherlands has not deteriorated, but the nitrogen problem has increased specifically in all those areas that are nitrogen-sensitive. We had the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen to solve that problem, but it is no longer legally possible and so we need to deal with it in a different way and actually reduce nitrogen emissions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u60	The Prime Minister ignores the fact that the Minister for Agriculture has once again admitted that the biodiversity targets were not met in 2010. Then what's the political trick? We come up with new, better goals. We all have beautiful words about nature and ambition and we're going to get them all. The Minister of Agriculture has had to admit that we are not going to make it again. The Prime Minister has a huge backlog to catch up on. The longer-term measures are now under consideration. The first exercise has already been fired: again not legally sustainable. What's the Prime Minister gonna do? Is he of the opinion that sustainability, so the fact that the cabinet adheres to the law, is more important than the question of whether you have political support for it or whether voters, especially voters of the VVD, like it? Or does he keep playing it at this level and should it be a political agreement in the coalition that suits him well?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u61	I do not know what would benefit me from this political agreement. But let's take a look at what we're doing. As a cabinet, as a coalition, we try to deal with facts and circumstances in which you are confronted with a legal ruling. Nature in the Netherlands has greatly improved on it as a whole. At the same time, nitrogen-sensitive nature has major problems. That statement says, "You thought you were gonna do it like that, but you can't do it anymore." That statement very precisely indicates that natural recovery must be at the forefront. Everything we're doing right now, it's natural recovery that's at the top of our agenda. So if we return nitrogen, then an important part of it is for nature restoration. We put massive money into restoring nature in the Netherlands. That is what we are doing in order to implement the Council of State's ruling, but that Council of State is not asking for the Netherlands to be locked down. He doesn't say, "You can't do anything anymore." It says: if you are working on nitrogen reduction, then you have to make sure that you use it in the first place for nature restoration. We are doing this to an important extent. This is an approach to this urgency package, but also how we are now proceeding along the two tracks with the provinces and a threshold threshold which we believe to be sensible in dealing with this new legal reality at the end of May.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u62	Finally, Mr President. The Prime Minister refuses to reflect on the legal opinions reached by the Chamber after the cabinet had presented its letter. Professor of Nature Conservation Law Kees Bastmeijer, who thus knew earlier that this would be killed at the Council of State, the Prime Minister continues to pretend that we could not see that coming, says this is even worse than the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen. He says the judge said that you shouldn't just give 30% of your savings to nature recovery, but that everything should go to nature recovery. That's how far the Prime Minister has called it. If the starting point for further reflection on structural measures is 'we think it is possible', then I predict the Prime Minister that it will not work out. And he may also say that to building the Netherlands: that you are now in trouble because I refused to listen to the legal advice that has indeed reached me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u63	The Council of State's ruling does not call for the Netherlands to be closed down in terms of construction and further development. He says, "You really have to bring the nitrogen back." The measures we are taking now do so. They're also used to reduce that nitrogen. A very large part of that yield is used for nature restoration. This is a priority in combination with a substantial investment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u64	Surely the Chamber should care what the Prime Minister says here. For he actually says: if we set up a committee, then the cabinet and the ministries stop thinking, then the actions stop and then we do nothing more for a few months. The SP has not agreed to the Remkes Committee. Why? We said that there are two things that need to be done: quickly restoring nature and tackling nitrogen sources in order to reduce nitrogen. First, nature recovery. Each nature reserve in the Netherlands has a recovery plan. We know exactly what to do. All it took was extra money to speed that up and the will to do so. For six months, nothing happened. We're a little behind. Then the sources. We know where the farms are that emit the most nitrogen by far. We know exactly what you're talking about. All we have to do is set up a program to buy it out. For six months, nothing happened. The RIVM report, which has been referred to several times, was seen by the Prime Minister two weeks ago. It says: we only have the numbers for a few days. Why hasn't an order been given in June, so "boys, why don't you see what the consequences for nitrogen are of a reduction in speed, even in scenarios?" Why was so little information collected in the summer and are we now being told 'we are going to talk to provinces about what areas the problems are in'? We should all have known that by now, six months later, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u65	Of course, in the summer there was also official and political work. Of course. What Mr Futselaar really denies here is the complexity of the issue. It is not for nothing that, apparently without the support of his party, a club of experts has been asked to advise Chamber and Cabinet on this. That report was published at the end of September. It's November now. We came up with our approach at the beginning of October. We have now presented the emergency package and, according to the letter of early October, we are continuing to work on the two main tracks in it: provinces and the further step-by-step approach towards an expanding threshold. Exactly as we intended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u66	I would nevertheless like to invite the Prime Minister to listen to himself where he says that we have already delivered an emergency package after six months. That's six months late. A week after that ruling by the Council of State, the permits were suspended. The building portfolios became empty and housing projects were cancelled. Shouldn't the Prime Minister also be ringing alarm bells? What exactly was the moment when he started personally interfering with this file? I do not mean to be informed, but when did he say, as Prime Minister, that I am going to play an active role in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u67	With every major file, I have an active role of my own. That is again the question of direction, and I also said earlier that if I teased Balkenende with that, he would give the right answer: when I am working on my visibility and my direction, I cannot direct it. So, of course, I am closely involved in all the major issues. Nor is it the case that nothing has happened after that ruling, both administratively and politically. For example, with the provinces we had to map out in detail the impact of this ruling. That had to be investigated. What had to happen and then map out all the plans to get things done? But I would add that if things could have been done faster, you must address me to that. I think we have taken all the steps we had to take, but if Mr Futselaar says that we should have done it there or sister or so sooner, I will give him right away if he can prove it. I believe that we have tried to keep that pace to the best of our consciences.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u68	I am indeed addressing the Prime Minister because I see no reason why we could not have said, for example, in June: we are releasing 250 million, provinces are going to work with your recovery plans and make sure that you succeed there so that we may create a little bit of nitrogen space, for example, to help construction get going again or at least to prevent the deterioration of nature. You could've just done that. That's what the cabinet left behind. I don't know if that's because those decisions couldn't be made. I don't know if it was politically sensitive. I only know that when the Prime Minister says that when he is very visible he does not have time to direct, we have to note that he has not been able to direct the past two weeks, because he was widely present in the media.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u69	That's funny, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u70	I wonder how big the Prime Minister's blind spot is and whether his political antenna has been properly tuned. Looking back you just see that in this coalition a different explanation has been given to the concept of circular agriculture from the outset. In November last year, the European Court of Justice sent out clear signals that the system was not sustainable. Then there will be a ruling in May and then it will take six months for there to be an emergency package. I wonder how the Prime Minister dares call this an emergency package, to which the cabinet itself has hardly contributed, because that has been the Remkes Committee. How dare you say after six months that there's an emergency package here?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u71	That judgment of the European Court of Justice of 7 November was clear. The PAS was admissible; the VVD, the PvdA and so many other parties were behind it. Yes, a number of comments were made, in particular as regards the justification, but in itself this PAS approach was admissible. At the end of May, the Council of State delivered its ruling. Certainly it is true that others have been warning against this PAS approach for some time now. All those years I've run, I've never seen anything like that when you do something, there's always parties or people saying, "That's the wrong route." In the end, you decide by majority on the basis of an analysis of the facts. Based on a genuine analysis of the facts and data, this PAS was created. On 7 November last year, Europe said that it could do so. The Council of State then says at the end of May: no, we can't do this anymore. From that moment on, you have to take all the steps we are working on to deal with that situation. Once again, if you could have done that more quickly on points, you have to appeal to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u72	I don't understand why there was no plan B and no plan C. You can think in scenarios, can't you? Why didn't that happen? Why didn't the Prime Minister intervene when the coalition was really rolling down the street, which was also widespread in the newspaper? Consultation on manure with slamming doors. Mr Geurts, who presented a service communication to Mr De Groot during debates. Mr Geurts and also Mrs Lodders who are speaking as spokesmen with a degree of flexibility comparable to that of a cast iron well cover. In the meantime, Mr De Groot says in the media that 50% of livestock should disappear. Then there will be a wave of protest. The only thing the cabinet has done is set up that committee itself. That was, of course, the initiative of the Chamber. I supported that because it was so ready for me that the coalition could get out of it. My question to the Prime Minister is: why has he not intervened before?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u73	Mr Moorlag is now calling for everything. Of course, this coalition isn't as wrinkleless as the last one. Of course, we never had a problem with each other there. Everything went smooth, there was never any fuss, there was never splashing, never at all. So I understand that Mr Moorlag is longing back to that time. But then too, some things went wrong. Every coalition does. It is inevitable that, under great pressure, social, public and social pressure, you try to make sensible decisions, that tensions also arise in a coalition. So far, we have been able to work things out. Some of those tensions you see, too. Someone might leak something about it from a consultation, some other time it becomes visible because a particular political party takes a political position, which may be the case. As long as this is not required to be the coalition's position, a party may profil itself by adopting its own positions. That's what my party does. That's what the other parties in the coalition do. It is my job, together with the leaders who are working on this in particular, to make sure that we work with each other step by step towards the right decisions. I do not have the impression that, because of tensions, there have always been great delays in these major issues, or that this delay would not have occurred if I had acted more brilliantly there. It's not like when I hit the table with my fist, everyone says: oh, Rutte is angry, let's just do what he says. Unfortunately not; I would think it wise, but they do not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u74	Locking up. Politics and governance is not easy, especially when the economy is struggling. But the economy is incredibly competitive. It's a complex issue, and then you do it wrong. My sincere question is: should it be as wrong as this cabinet does, arguing with the whole society?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u75	We have a huge problem of redistribution. You are in a phase of this society where I believe we can maintain high economic growth, even in the future, but at the same time face a number of incredibly difficult issues: around CO, in this case nitrogen, but there are also other issues that we need to solve. They ask for innovation; they also sometimes ask a little bit of each other. We have to do that once in a while. That annoying 100 measure is also a request to society: boys, we are settling in now so that it is possible for a lot of jobs in construction, etc. to be preserved. I think a country understands that. That is what we have been doing in this country for centuries: with each other, also along the way of negotiation, with little territory, with many people, with great ambition, with many interests coming out again and again. That's what's gonna happen here. This is a first important step.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u76	A question about a core of this debate. The Prime Minister just said, "Everything we do is about restoring nature." That has the full approval of D66. We had a brief discussion in the first term about the nature paragraph in the letter. Can I read it in such a way that everything the cabinet does is central to the improvement of nature, including in that paragraph?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u77	Yes, of course we want to improve nature, so as a general rule I can only say yes to that. I'm gonna make it a little more specific. The cabinet is, of course, in the process of seeing whether all these areas are still robust enough, whether the targets for the areas are actually feasible despite all the remedial measures. In doing so, we are also looking at whether it can help to merge or re-assess the areas, or whether this can be useful. At the same time, wherever matters are concerned in Europe, we will, of course, discuss whether we can organise things smarter with each other. Anyway, you know the paragraph in the letter. We're gonna do it neatly. Mrs Schouten will look into it in a moment. On a general question "Do you want more beautiful nature?" I answer: yes, of course I want more beautiful nature. But of course, there's a whole world behind that. Maybe I can ask you a question, Mr President, or else I think we'll really be here until 9:00 tonight. That is fine with me, but I think it is good that Mrs Schouten should go into these questions about nature in such detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u78	It's the core of this whole exercise anyway. But I hear the Prime Minister say: indeed, yes, this whole exercise is intended to improve nature in the Netherlands under the line, on balance. That's exactly what the judge said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u79	The Council of State has to do that, especially when it comes to nitrogen. Everything you do now with nitrogen production, according to that statement of the Council of State, should be used to reduce nitrogen production and thus improve nature in that respect. But Mr. De Groot asked the question so wide...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u80	That is what the Minister for Agriculture will come back to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u81	...that I'm thinking, "What kind of pie am I kicking?" That's why I wanted to specify that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u82	That was an open door that was easy to kick in. I would like to raise the question a little more. Can the Prime Minister rule out because I no longer know what the position of this cabinet is, supported by the coalition, that nature reserves are going to disappear and that the protected status of nature reserves is going to be removed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u83	We are going to see if, for example, you can not re-assess nature areas better, if you could perhaps merge them, or if you could do better. Especially if they are areas of which it is, whatever you invest, but the question is whether you will ever realize the intended natural value there. This often has to do with the size of such an area and with its robustness. Sometimes it may be that you are not going to achieve those goals, despite all the recovery measures, that it simply is not feasible. Then it is good to see if merging or redefining can be useful. We're gonna do an analysis on that. Once you know that full recovery is not possible and would not succeed, you can also, in consultation with the European Commission, see if it is possible to achieve that nature there or elsewhere. The starting point is that it has to be robust. We want a robust nature network in the Netherlands and we want to do it in such a way that it is cleverly designed. But it's just that sometimes you're dealing with a stamp somewhere, where whatever you do, you're not gonna realize what you want. Then it might be wise to take a critical look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u84	Call it derogatory "seal."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u85	I quoted Bloem, the greatest Dutch poet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u86	I think we both live here in this beautiful city. For example, the Westduinpark is such a relatively small area. Clumsy, you might say, but it's of such value to so many people who live here! Just like Lake Grevelingen is, or the Wierden Field. The coalition has mentioned these two areas, the Wierdene Veld and the Grevelingen, where you really need to think before taking off the Natura 2000 status. Can the Prime Minister reassure me, but above all the people in Overijssel and Zeeland, that Natura 2000 status is maintained for these areas?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u87	The letter does not refer to specific areas. He talks about a number of principles. So I am not going to mention specific areas here. I love The Hague, too. I also love the Grevelingen, which is a little further away. But I am not going to make any statements on behalf of the cabinet on specific nature reserves.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u88	The coalition will do this. They clearly indicate which areas they are talking about. There's some unrest about that. We are already receiving reports from people who say: ho, what will happen to the Wierdense Field or to the Grevelingen? It is up to the Prime Minister, who is on top of this dossier, to coordinate and ensure that all this is managed properly, to clarify this. Will these sites retain their Natura 2000 status? That's the question that's bothering a lot of people, and so am I.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u89	Good, but I just gave the answer, which is that we have a letter that says exactly how we want to optimise a number of things in relation to nature and that I do not go into specific areas of nature here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u90	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u91	So, let me get this straight, the letter that the cabinet wrote gives us plenty of room to get the Natura 2000 status of nature reserves. The attack on nature reserves will be opened and the Prime Minister will not say anything about it, but if it is up to the coalition parties, at least the Grevelingen and the Wierden Veld will die. Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u92	I leave that entirely to Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u93	The Prime Minister says, maybe it's good to see how you can do that smarter, make nature more robust and connect and so on. Yeah, we did. That was the main ecological structure and it was removed under Rutte's responsibility. Do I hear the Prime Minister say here that that was stupid and that we're getting the ecological main structure back?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u94	What we say in this letter is that you need to look, in some cases, or areas previously designated as Natura 2000 sites, to maintain that status. If it is true that the goal of robust nature simply cannot be achieved, no matter what recovery measures you take, then you can also see if you can merge or reconfigure areas etc. et cetera. In fact, I repeat the previous answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u95	Finally, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u96	That was not an answer to my question, because I read the letter as well. Can we get the ecological main structure back? Because the Prime Minister has no idea what it will take to get out of this crisis. You need a commission for that and then a few weeks and a few months to think about what to do. One of the things that is needed is more nature. More robust nature means that nature can have a jab and that any nitrogen emissions can be collected more easily. So I'm gonna ask again if we can get the ecological main structure back. Can the Prime Minister also reflect, because he himself was there at the time, which was previously tried to remove nature reserves, which is actually now in the letter, and that the cabinet of a cold carnival came home? Is the Prime Minister prepared to acknowledge that here?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u97	Let's start with the main structure. That was an instrument. I am not going to discuss the advantages and disadvantages of an individual instrument here. In the letter we laid down a number of principles on how we try to achieve robust nature. That is still loose, but it is in the extension of the State Council's statement which says: listen, you have to reduce nitrogen and the yield of reducing nitrogen should primarily benefit the recovery of nature. You can literally see in some natural areas the impact of too much nitrogen when it comes to an impoverishment of biodiversity. I heard Mr Wilders use that term. I thought, "Yeah, that's how we're all making progress." Biodiversity decreases in some natural areas due to nitrogen. In the end, that is what we have to do and also what the Council of State is asking us to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u98	Mr Futselaar. Well, you can have one more question and then it's really done. At least on this...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u99	I didn't get an answer to my question, so I just want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u100	You are asking whether we are going to restore the main ecological structure. That's when I said I wasn't gonna talk about an instrument. In this letter we outline a number of principles. In fact, I repeat the previous answer. This cannot be solved by bringing a certain instrument back to life.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u101	No. Then I'll go to Mr Futselaar. Mrs. Ouwehand. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u102	I asked the Prime Minister if he remembers that one of his previous cabinets tried exactly what he now wrote in the letter and that that cabinet came home from a cold carnival. The removal of these natural areas is not possible if you have taken care of your natural areas as badly as the Netherlands has done. That was before. It has not improved over the next four years. So the Minister acknowledges that it didn't work out at the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u103	It didn't work out then, but I think we have a better story now. Why? One. Because we're actually working on reducing nitrogen right now. The first reactions from Europe are also appreciated that we are now following up on this. Two. Because we don't say: we're going to do all kinds of terrible things with nature. No, not at all. We are going to ensure that robust nature remains in the Netherlands, but that we do that smartly. So we also keep a robust nature network in the Netherlands, but do so in a way that we use the resources smartly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u104	Mr Futselaar. No, Mrs. Ouwehand. Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u105	On October 19, less than a month ago, the official Twitter account of the Ministry of LNV published the following. They had received many questions about whether the number of natural areas could not be reduced. The short answer is: "No, see below for more information. Is it possible to reduce or relocate Natura 2000 sites? According to the European Court of Justice, there are two options for this: either a scientific error must have been made in the designation of a Natura 2000 site or the nature conservation objectives must be unachievable, making et cetera et cetera." And it says below: none of the Dutch Natura 2000 sites meet these criteria. My question to the Prime Minister is: what legal or environmental changes have taken place in the last three weeks, which has changed the position of the LNV Ministry three weeks ago?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u106	In the context of the discussions now in the Cabinet, which have also led to this letter, but also, of course, in the follow-up to the letter of early October, you will see a whole approach, also of course in the context of the wider climate issue and the CO approach, to reduce nitrogen emissions. This also includes looking together at what is a smart way to ensure that you have a robust nature network in the Netherlands and that you use the resources well. That's what this letter says. I believe that you also have arguments for having that discussion with each other, step by step, including in Brussels. I'm not saying this leads to anything right away. We are going to do this step by step, but I am convinced that we have good arguments there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u107	This is not an answer. Three weeks ago, the LNV Ministry said in an, I would almost say, unusually clear way: it cannot; there are no Natura 2000 sites in the Netherlands that can obtain such an exception. And three weeks later, the Prime Minister says: yes, we have a plan and we see opportunities on the basis of discussions in the cabinet. So I understand that only political changes have been made, but that the ecological reality in these areas is exactly the same and that the legal reality is still exactly the same. Laws haven't changed. Everything is exactly the same, only the political reality for the Prime Minister has changed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u108	No, there is an approach in the Netherlands to reducing CO emissions and there is an approach to reducing the nitrogen deposition where it is now a problem. That combination together with how we are going to invest massively in nature, 0.25 billion, gives us, I think, a package of arguments to look at: how can you do that as smartly as possible? If you have a small nature reserve that you don't know if you will ever be able to realize that natural value, no matter how much you invest in it, wouldn't it be wise, for example, to see if it should retain the Natura 2000 status and/or look at what you can do by merging or resetting?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u109	I was wondering... I just heard the Prime Minister say that the effects of more nitrogen are so visible and that you then see certain effects in nature. Could he describe it to me? What do you see?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u110	Then I finally have a field trip we're gonna do. I already went with Mr Wilders to see a lady from the General Reviews. You and I are going into the dunes of The Hague. Then I will show you that the dunes of The Hague, which had a fairly large biodiversity a few years ago, are now largely characterised by nettles and blackberries. If you're gonna run there, you'll see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u111	So the vegetation's increasing?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u112	The problem is that nitrogen in itself leads to more vegetation, but of a poorer species, which reduces the quality of nature and the number of insects and beasts that can make use of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u113	So the prime minister thinks there are fewer insects in areas where there are more plants and trees than in places where there is more heathland?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u114	One of the problems is that nitrogen leads to a fragmentation of nature. This fragmentation of nature ensures that there is indeed a discrepancy of, for example, the supply of insects.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u115	And his definition is: more plants and trees? That's what he calls "disruption"?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u116	No. I don't like nettles and blackberries as much as the dunes when I was growing up as a boy. They're falling apart.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u117	But why are you talking about nettles and blackberries all the time? It's also about trees. The overall vegetation is increasing. So it's not a break, it's a break. You have less shaky nature. That's an entire Orwellian reversal in this whole nitrogen debate. Everyone talks about the fragmentation of nature, but by that they mean more plants and trees.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u118	Yeah, but it's a one-sided species. This reduces the value of nature. You can see that it also has health effects, for example on people's breathing. So it also has consequences for humans. In the first place it has consequences for nature and through intermediate steps also for man, for bugs and so on. So not in the areas Mr Wilders was talking about, that is true. There are also many areas that have improved. But those areas in the Netherlands that are nitrogen-sensitive are different.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u119	What is happening here also happened on the radio yesterday when I was debating with Mr De Groot. Suddenly it's about another subject. Suddenly it's about: oh, but it's bad for air quality. But that's not what this is about. This concerns the Council of State's ruling on the system of granting permits for nitrogen deposition. This whole discussion has never started to affect breathing, which is completely unproven and extremely dubious. Statistically, it may prove to the umpteenth decimal place, but it is not a real issue at all, not a real problem. I note that the Minister keeps saying that there is a discrepancy and calls nettles and blackberries. There is a lot more nature in the Netherlands. There's greening. It's going really well because there's more of that great nitrogen, which is just a nutrient.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u120	No, I'm not okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u121	And you define "good" as a certain, predefined museum distribution of exactly what areas we need to have in the Netherlands, while you can also just look: does it grow and bloom? If the answer is yes, I'm fine. I don't call that a break.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u122	If that's what Mr Baudet means: no, my point is not that you have to have exactly all the habitat types that you had previously thought were there. Then I agree with Mr Baudet. That's not always possible. It is my concern that you can objectively establish that nature is divisive. I'm not an expert either, but you'll see it at some point. That's why I said, "We'll have our outing too." In a number of cases it is just visible in nature that nature is divisive, for example on the Veluwe, where there is currently a problem with oak trees. The problem in the Hague dunes can be observed. That's really serious. It's nitrogen. We make too much of that in the Netherlands. We had a program to reduce that, but there were too many puffy elements: we do it on the puff. The Council of State has said that it can no longer do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u123	Okay. I'd like to accept the invitation. I would then concentrate on the question of whether what the Prime Minister says is not really enrichment. So let's do it. Cozy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u124	If you like nettles, it's enrichment. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u125	You've gone through all your interruptions, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u126	Sure. I wasn't planning on interrupting either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u127	What were you up to?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u128	He wants to go too! He wants to go too!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u129	No way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u130	That's not nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u131	It's fine, as long as it's very clear that I don't have to go. Before you know it, there are misunderstandings here. I really don't want anything there...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u132	We don't want to know any of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u133	I had a question for the Prime Minister because he said just between his nose and his lips that the first reactions from Europe were positive. Then I thought, "Hey, I haven't read anything about that yet." That's not part of the pieces. So if he could share that reaction with us, I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u134	Yes, but I have nothing but public resources. I don't have anything else on the NOS site that said anything about the European Commissioner. That's all I got. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to a few questions that remain.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u135	Wait, wait, wait... This is going very fast, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u136	No, just a minute, Mr. Clover. Those sources are public?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u137	Sure. I thought that on the NOS website the first reaction of the Polish Commissioner, or at least the Commissioner... Sorry, that's sensitive. It was the reaction of a Commissioner from any country.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u138	Let me get this straight. There's no...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u139	Yeah, right from Poland? It is a Commissioner who originally comes from Poland. But it is not a Polish Commissioner, because the Commissioners are not there as a representative of a country. You know that, don't you, Mr. Clover?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u140	Then that's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u141	You can see it's Thursday morning and he's usually teaching right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u142	At 8:30 we were here with a class of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u143	Yeah, exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u144	That's great. The question that...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u145	One was sitting on Mr. Wilders' chair.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u146	It may be very cozy, but I still have one very serious question. There is no official response or other contact with Europe at the moment indicating that this is the right approach?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u147	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u148	Then that's clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u149	Mr. Chairman. Then I'll answer a few short questions. Maybe I can do that real quick. The deadline has been requested. The Emergency Act is before the Council of State for its opinion. We expect that in the very short term. Then he'll go to the chamber as soon as possible. The emergency law is also in preparation and will be submitted as soon as possible. Then there's the permit. Since the letter of 4 October, you will notice that within the provinces the licensing has started again. Schouten and I had a conversation with provinces last week. In addition, you can see that a lot of projects, especially from that famous list of 18,000 that has ever been in the media, are getting going again. If you look at it through your eye hairs, I would say that up to 50% of the projects are getting back on track. 400 out of 500 projects in Emmen, 98% of projects in Zeeland: a lot of these projects are back on track. That has to do with the AERIUS calculator. But once again, the problem is of course with the other projects, which must also get going. Anyway, this licensing thing has started. As soon as the emergency law has been adopted by both chambers, authorisation will also be initiated for all projects covered by this emergency law. Then the other questions that were asked to me by the excellent cooperation between me and the Chamber and by all the interruptions have actually already been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u150	I thought so too, because the Prime Minister has actually only spoken for three minutes and had almost one and a half hours of interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u151	My question to the Prime Minister is: what will happen next? With the coalition this has really been a long journey with bare knees over the coconut mat. There's been paralysis in the coalition. A committee was already needed to give direction. In the past, however, I have argued in favour of pursuing a broad agreement on agriculture, nature and food, following the energy agreement. But we must also note that there is great polarisation and great tension in society...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u152	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u153	The question is, how are we going to pacify that? And shouldn't you be able to get parties to the table in line with the climate agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u154	We want speed. We are not doing this by setting up another hundred tables with a thousand organisations, as in the case of the Climate Agreement. I don't think that's convenient. I can see that even Mr Klaver is reluctant in that thought. In my view, we should now carry out what we have intended, namely the railway with the provinces and the rail with the construction of the threshold. Of course we are looking for the broadest possible support, but I am also a little less gloomy than Mr Moorlag on the functioning of the coalition. I'm not saying everything's pais and love. It is not in any coalition, not even in the previous one. But we're always getting along.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u155	If you need six months for something that you dare to call a "lucky package" here in the Chamber, then I think it would be a good thing that, in addition to taking urgent measures, you are also fundamentally trying to get the polder model back on its feet. Because the polarization we have now in society is not good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u156	I do not like the fact that the Malieveld is always being ploughed, but in itself it is also part of a democracy. Yesterday there were also a few hundred farmers in front of the Catshuis. Shooters and I have been talking about that. In addition, we got a lot of information. We've taken some people inside. It also leads to new insights. I'm not inviting the whole society to come to Malieveld massively right now. We are trying to manage properly and to prevent people from seeing cause for this. But if they do, then we try to enrich our insights and engage in dialogue with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u157	I asked one question to the Prime Minister. Maybe I didn't hear the answer right. It was about licensing construction projects. I asked when the first kick could get back in the ground. Perhaps one of the ministers will answer that question, but that was a specific question I asked the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u158	Yes. I have to get him back, because I tried to answer him. That was one of the CDA's questions to me. First of all, my answer was that, since our letter of 4 October, this authorisation has in most cases started again, especially for all the projects under this AERIUS value. The new measures should ensure that more nitrogen space is released, which could then be used for construction in 2020. This allows construction companies to add more new projects to their order portfolios. The authorisation granted by the nitrogen measures can start after the emergency law has been adopted and introduced by both chambers. So it starts as soon as that emergency law is passed in the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u159	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u160	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Prime Minister has already answered quite a lot of questions in my area and I will explain the questions that remain. I shall begin with the questions that lie still in the field of nature. Mr Wilders has asked whether the new instructions are now being shut down. That's the case. Mr Futselaar asked why we did not immediately examine all the legal options and started remedial measures in the nature reserves. Mr Futselaar knows that the provinces are already in the process of remedial measures. We've already had conversations with them about how far they are, what needs to be done and what needs to be done. One of the elements they need is the possibility of moving things forward a little faster, including within the regulatory framework. We are now going to offer more opportunities to deal with matters more quickly. And we're going to make extra 250 million euros available for nature recovery. This gives an incredible boost to the restoration of nature in these areas. Mr De Groot asked how we would achieve a robust and legally sustainable nature policy. Let me broaden that question a little bit. A robust and, above all, legally sustainable nature policy is important in itself for nature, but it is also important to ensure that we can develop economically. That balance has to go well. I indicated earlier in the debate that we are always talking about this with the European Commission, also to look at what is a realistic nature policy. Robust and realistic, that must go hand in hand. We also look at what we need to do if it turns out that certain targets for areas are completely unachievable. There are areas in the Netherlands where it is true that if you remove all activities in the immediate vicinity, then you are really talking about all activities: companies, homes and whatever else you will not be below the critical deposition values of nitrogen, for example because there is a lot from abroad. In such cases that we do not fall below those critical deposition values, even though we are going to be completely upside down, it stops somewhere. That is the conversation we are having with the Commission, and we are going to have it again to see how we can deal with it. We will also discuss whether this could lead to a different division of areas. The starting point is a robust, legally feasible and realistic nature policy. Mr De Groot also asks if we are going to make 2027 in relation to the Dutch Nature Network. With the provinces we agreed that the Dutch Nature Network was completed in 2027. Progress reports show that they are still on their way there. So I have good hope of that. If we have an idea of the means and measures needed to achieve a good state of conservation of nature, Mr De Groot asks. We have already taken many measures and many are still in preparation. These are included in particular in the Natura 2000 site management plans. The resources are also linked to this. What we need for the longer term is worked out in a strategic plan. We do this together with the other governments, because nature policy is decentralised policy; so we do that together with the provinces. In December, we will inform your Chamber more about what will come of it. Then Mr De Groot asks whether we want to take the good state of the Natura 2000 sites as the starting point for the site-oriented measures. That question was also raised in a small debate he had with the Prime Minister. We have said this again recently in response to the letter on the IPBES report, which we are seeking to achieve a favourable conservation status by 2050. But, that favorable state is a national goal and is not a one-on-one link to a particular area. Overall, total nature in the Netherlands must be in a favourable state of conservation, but this also means that there will be differences between the areas. That is already the case, and it will be. If you take this as a starting point for each Natura 2000 area, you do not fully reflect the differences that exist. But when making the land plans, we will of course take into account what is needed to improve nature in that area as well. This whole letter, this whole approach is aimed at restoring nature. I am talking about the 30% that is right for nature in everything we do with nitrogen, and about the 250 million that we have earmarked to take recovery measures and achieve the robust and realistic nature policy. Mr Bishop asks: where is common sense? He says that pooping a goose in certain places has a much greater effect than all kinds of other measures. What exactly is this about? This whole exercise is about the fact that we have nature in the Netherlands, that we have made agreements about how we deal with it and that, among other things, the nitrogen deposition has an effect on that nature. In order to maintain nature, we must take action. That's what we had the Programme Approach Nitrogen for, but that's been put aside by the judge, so to speak. That is why we need to develop a new approach. These are the short-term measures to ensure that we can allow activities to take place while at the same time restoring nature. For the longer term, we come up with a bigger picture, a bigger story about how we will deal with this again structurally. We now have over 160 Natura 2000 sites, 116 of which are nitrogen-sensitive. Then we can say that we have a lot of nature, but the quality of that nature is not so good at all. So you can bet on "what insane nature we have, great!', But I care about the quality of that nature. So we're going to take these steps to see if we can make nature more robust.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u161	The question is, of course, always what pure nature is and what nature was created as a result of human action. In doing so, we must take into account that nature is not static, but constantly evolving and constantly changing. In that light, I asked where our common sense is. We want to base policy on 0.3 moles, which is the content of a goose poo in terms of nitrogen, while the Habitats Directive allows for a derogation if there is no evidence of negative, significant influence. That space can be used. So you have to ask yourself whether you're not getting ahead of yourself and whether you're not working on the natural millimeter, when you're actually losing sight of the larger connection. That is actually the essence of the question. It is fine that all useful measures are being taken, but let us not lose sight of the larger link. I would also like to say that I am pleased that the package also states that we are going to look soberly at the Natura 2000 sites. Sometimes such a region is not manageable and has an extremely negative effect. We're going to look at that, so that we can help develop a robust nature, it says. But more sober with the standards, that's my plea.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u162	We deal with this soberly, but we do, of course, have the Birds and Habitats Directives as the framework within which we have to work. Nor can I hear Mr Bishop denying that we have to stay in there. And it's true what he's saying. And now it's getting a little legal, but those are the terms that are attached to it. Indeed, the Birds and Habitats Directives state that if an activity does not have a significant impact on a nature reserve, there is no permit requirement for that activity either. However, in the Netherlands, when implementing the Birds and Habitats Directives, we have opted for a licensing requirement for both significant effects and non-significant effects. We were just having an interrupting debate on that. Now, that part will bring the Cabinet into line with what is included in the Birds and Habitats Directives. So that's how we look at it soberly. If there is a significant effect, we need to counter it. That seems to me to be the other side of the coin.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u163	The latter seems to me to be quite self-evident. Do I quite understand that this point is explicitly highlighted in the follow-up to the reflection of what needs to be done, in the sense that the headline, which we ourselves have put on the rules, is going to go off? Are we going to comply with the Birds and Habitats Directives, including the case law that has emerged over the years at European and national level? Is that a correct summary of the Minister's ambition?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u164	As you can read in the letter, this section is included in the emergency legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u165	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u166	Mr Geurts asked whether the licences in the North Sea and the Wadden Sea could be issued again. In fact, the North Sea and the Wadden Sea are exactly the same as what is happening on land. The granting of authorisation in general has been restarted. The Prime Minister already indicated that. You can calculate with the AERIUS calculator tool whether your activities affect a Natura 2000 site. The same applies to activities in the North Sea and the Wadden Sea. If you're not, you can go on anyway. If it is, you'll see if you can compensate. When it comes to real safety issues, you're gonna get into the emergency law that we've incorporated. In that we said that we cannot play with safety; then we should not just sit down and count moles, but see for ourselves how we get there. Safety must be paramount, but we will ensure that natural recovery takes place if negative effects arise. Mr Geurts also asked about the fragmentation of nature. He asked how we are going to shape the process agreed upon in the letter. That process is designed very carefully. With the provinces, we will look at Natura 2000 sites which, because of their size and location, are structurally weak and will remain weak, even if we take these measures. If these measures ultimately have no effect on the state of nature, then we will see what that means for the robustness of how we have realized nature. We'll see what it takes. We must do this at the same time as Brussels. We need to be realistic in this, because the Habitats Directive areas are also on a European list and adaptation should take place with the agreement of the European Commission. So I have to follow both the local route and the Brussels route.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u167	If Mr Klaver is also paying attention to the Wierdense Veld, he knows exactly what is going on. At the Wierdene Veld the high bog must be protected, but the Wierdene Veld is also a water-win area. In the previous period, I have always pointed out that this is a conflict. That has now come to the fore in all intensity. Are we going for water extraction for our Overijssel inhabitants or are we going for the protection of the bogs? I hear the Minister say something about a careful process. I fully agree with the Minister, but this is a choice that needs to be made very quickly, otherwise water extraction will have to be stopped. I don't think that's supposed to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u168	This is exactly the kind of conversation I need to have with the county. The province is the manager of that nature reserve and has the task of managing and maintaining the area. That's what I'm talking to the county about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u169	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u170	Wait a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u171	What do you mean?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u172	Before the Minister continues. She says, "That's what I'm talking to the county about." Is it indeed an option that the status of this Natura 2000 site disappears?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u173	First of all, I would like to talk to the province about the issues that are going on in the Natura 2000 area. We are also going to look at what is, for example, something that keeps the area structurally weak, whatever we do about it, so if we go against more and more measures and it does not lead to the area improving, even if you remove all economic activities from the area. But it may also be that this kind of thing is going on, so I'm going to start by taking stock of the issues that are going on. I can't see the outcome of that right now. I'm just going to have these conversations with the provinces.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u174	And then you'll come back to the room?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u175	Yeah, I'll come back to that, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u176	My follow-up question is: when can we expect that? I am quite concerned about this, because it is being thrown over the fence by a coalition party at once. Now it is above the market whether the Natura 2000 status will disappear from the Wierdense Field or from the Grevelingen. I find it almost inappropriate to speculate in this way on which areas and which are not going to lose Natura 2000 status.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u177	I have the impression that Mr Klaver is taking my words out of context. I will talk to the provinces about the state of the Natura 2000 sites: what is happening there, what are the issues that are going on there? Those are conversations I've had before. I will now. I'm not gonna say they're gonna make this status go away. By the way, it is really not the case that we are in the process of taking away the Natura 2000 status of the Grevelingen. We only note that sometimes there is a double that is very difficult to put together. Colleague Van Nieuwenhuizen and I spend millions to raise underwater life in the Grevelingen. We do that by opening the Brouwersdam a bit. This brings in other kinds of water. That's fresher and you get more nature and more animals through it. That's all beautiful. Millions we put in there. At the moment it is almost still because of one plant on the shore. We have to prove that this plant is not lost. That's kind of complicated when you change the habitat slightly because of the choices you make there for a greater purpose. So we get stuck in activities that should improve nature. Those are the administrative dilemmas you're facing, I'll give them back to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u178	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u179	Yes, Mr President, but I do think it is important to mention this. Sometimes it seems as if what we have to choose is obvious, but it is not. In the context of what Mr Bishop says, sometimes you have to look at the situation with your common sense. That's what we're doing. Mr Harbers and Mrs Carla Dik-Faber ask how we are going to do this. I have just said that to Mr Geurts' question. We will also involve some external expertise from people looking at the state of these areas. They see what can and can be done there. I will inform you in December of the timetable we intend to follow in the Natura 2000 process. Mr Harbers asks if I can provide a list of current changes and designation decisions. I can do that, and I will. I'll send that list to the Chamber. How is support used as far as possible in municipalities, for example for opportunities to make use of an ecological basis, or for sustainability projects that can reduce emissions later? We are already very busy supporting municipalities in matters surrounding nitrogen. Attention will also be paid to the potential for an ecological underpinning of projects, including for sustainability projects. We have teamed up with administrative partners, so with the provinces. That's some kind of flying brigade that can help the municipalities. I think that Mr Van Veldhoven will go into more detail about how we will deal with this in the context of housing. Mr Van Haga asks why I did not start examining earlier whether the Natura 2000 sites could be reduced. I have said before in the Chamber that we are always talking to Brussels about these routes, which were already running. We have the so-called fitness check to look at the state of those areas and how realistic it is to achieve all the goals. If a situation changes, we'll also see where that actually comes from. We already did. We will also look here at what it means for the designation of those areas. Those were the questions that were left in the field of nature. I shall go into the agro-questions that have been asked. Mr De Groot asked how we are going to clarify the necessary movements for feed, soil, etc. We have, of course, given that direction before. I have already discussed many plans in the Chamber about how we want to deal with feed or manure, for example. We're in the process of changing the manure legislation. We also included this in the implementation plan of the LNV vision. If that is necessary, we will also consider whether the rules should be adapted accordingly. We are about to have a debate with each other on manure policy and on how we are going to take further steps in this regard. For soil, we started the national programme on agricultural soils. As is clear, we have introduced a feed measure in the context of this problem. We will really do that together with the agricultural sector. It will be a target regulation, in the sense that we do not prescribe a means of reducing farmers' ammonia emissions through feed. This is in line with the farmers' professionalism. We had a conversation yesterday about that at the Catshuis. They really appreciate that they're being addressed to their professionalism and that we're not gonna tell them how to do that. But that varies from farmer to farmer. We will also see if we can include the plan that the agricultural collective, as they call themselves, prepares for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u180	Thanks to the Minister. In short, is the Minister simply going to continue to work on the elaboration of the vision for the future of agriculture?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u181	I'm always working, also working on my vision. Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u182	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u183	Then there is Mr Moorlag's question as to whether the agricultural sector is the carrier of rural areas. And how we ensure that the country does not perish if all these farms are bought up. That is a very important subject. We are talking here about the problem of nitrogen and how to deal with it, but it is also about the viability of rural areas. How are you gonna shape that now? That is why it is so important that I sometimes hear some critical comments about this area-based approach that you have that kind of conversation in those areas too. Because there you can see what choices are made, but also what the consequences of the choices are. And this also has to do with the question: let's buy up the farms later, I say something popular, and what does that mean? That's what I'm talking to the provinces about. What exactly do we need to make it happen so that it doesn't become some kind of wild west? How do we ensure that the consequences for rural areas, for the viability of rural areas, are not much greater if they are not coordinated? That's what the provinces have to worry about. We'll see how we can shape that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u184	Mr. Moorlag, a quick question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u185	The Minister shares the concern. Not only have I expressed concern, but I have also asked whether the government is prepared to make an additional agenda for strengthening the rural economy and strengthening its viability. Some agreements have been included in the Inter-Governmental Programme, but this is seen almost exclusively in agriculture. In my opinion, this should be extended to the rural economy and its viability.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u186	On the contrary, the Inter-Governmental Programme sees a wider scope, including on these issues. It's not just agriculture. On the contrary, it is also about the establishment of rural areas and the functions of rural areas. I think that's where it's taking place. But that's really something you do locally. You are originally, and still, from Groningen. That is really different from that you are in Limburg or Zuid-Holland. So you have to be in line with the routes that take place in that area, and we do so in the Inter-Governmental Programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u187	In view of the gravity of the situation, the cabinet should also be able to spend some resources on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u188	That's what's gonna happen. The Inter-Governmental Programme Vitaal Countryside exists. We also have the means to ensure that this is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u189	But if the ailment gets worse, the dosage of the drugs will have to be adjusted.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u190	Oh, okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u191	I don't know if you can put it that generic. I just want to say that the programme exists, that we are working on it and that there are resources for it. So I think that we are working together on this. Mr Bishop spoke about the agricultural sector, which has to turn everything in favour of other sectors. He asked to what extent the development area also goes back to agriculture? We have now laid down a package in which several sectors contribute to housing and to a number of road and water projects, because we, as a cabinet, have said that this is really a priority. At the same time, we stated in the letter that, when we ask farmers, for example, we should also help them to take those steps. That's what we're gonna do. I will come back to what exactly is the measure. At the same time, the whole approach to this problem of nitrogen, but also the approach we have adopted in the LNV vision, is about the development perspective of agriculture. Those aren't separate worlds. We must not break things up, but we must continue to do what we have already done. The problem of nitrogen is now getting over it, in quite a bit of intensity. But let us make sure that farmers who remain farmers also have development opportunities. That's what it's all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u192	Mr Bishop, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u193	I fully agree with the Minister when it comes to an integral examination of the problem of nitrogen. You can also link it to the CO. Everything's connected. It is only for a moment that I am concerned about how to prevent the agricultural sector from bearing the burden of the nitrogen problem in particular, when, for example, they manage to achieve a significant reduction in nitrogen emissions via the feedline. To what extent will that remain available for this sector? That should be clarified.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u194	Mr Bishop is referring in particular to the area of nitrogen. We have now, of course, made the choice to make it better for housing and for some road and water projects. That was a consideration. In fact, we felt that progress should be made on housing as well. The housing industry itself does not have that much to deliver, so you will have to get it from other sectors as well. However, in general terms, the development potential for agriculture is a very important issue, in everything we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u195	There is even more hanging over the market, namely skimming, internal and external netting, and the consequences that that is going to have. What guarantees does the sector have that the space it creates will actually remain available to that sector? In my opinion, skimming makes it extremely difficult to guarantee that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u196	Internal netting is, of course, just a choice of the person himself. So the person can simply decide to use a particular activity in his company for something else that he does need a permit for but what he can simply disconquer in his own environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u197	So, without skimming?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u198	In internal netting, it's just internal netting, yeah. With external salading it is possible also a choice of a farmer himself. It can say: I sell my company and with it my environmental space. He can then make his own choice to sell it to the government or to a colleague. This also has something to do with the freedom of choice of entrepreneurs themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u199	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u200	I would like to point out the risk that there will be capitalist parties from outside the sector which will thereby impose enormous restrictions on the sector. That point has already been mentioned by a colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u201	Sure. We're certainly aware of that, too. Exactly about that, so about how we can prevent that, I am also talking to the provinces.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u202	Thank you. I'd like to know how...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u203	I'm almost done, Mr. Chairman. Mr Geurts asked: is the marketing of farmers hampered by the feed measures? No. The feed measures that are being developed will fit within the national and European legal frameworks. Therefore, they should not have any influence on the possibilities of marketing the farmer's products. By the way, farmers themselves are free to make their own choices. Are we going to involve the agricultural collective? Yes. We're already talking about that. Well, at least I've already invited them to a conversation, so that's gonna happen. In the perspective of GroenLinks, the most important measure is to reduce livestock. GroenLinks asks: where is the plan for this? We have, of course, already published the reform of pig farming. It will be opened on 25 November until the end of the year. There are therefore four to five weeks to register. In addition, the whole issue about how to deal with farms is they want to stay, do they have to change, or do they want to stop? This is something that is also taken into account in this area-specific approach. The VVD says that I should not only focus on a financial arrangement to stop, but that I should also move or continue to make it possible. When will the package be ready for that? We have always said that there are several flavors. It's not like we're just helping a company that stops. We're also gonna help them if moving or transforming is an option. We have an incentive arrangement for innovations, which starts early next year. And if, for example, there is relocation, that is an issue that is being addressed in those areas and we are offering the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u204	I see Mrs Ouwehand wants to interrupt. Have you had all the questions in the meantime?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u205	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u206	I would suggest that you answer the questions first. Perhaps there is a question from Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u207	Let's see. No, I don't think it's very specific. When will the scheme for new innovations be in place? At the beginning of January we want to open up a first module of the investment scheme for the source-oriented sustainability of stables. In addition, we will stimulate the development and use of innovative techniques. We're also trying to see if we can make that assessment faster. So I think that during the first half of next year we can report more on the state of these techniques and how they can be made more quickly. Mr Harbers' question on foreign models, that is, the Danish and German models. Is the committee that is going to look at this actually going to look at these foreign models? And does he have the expertise for that? I said I'd set up a committee to measure and calculate. I'll let you know who's in there soon. The commission's mandate also states that it must involve foreign methods in its work. This will also involve foreign expertise. Expertise on foreign models will also be represented in the committee itself. So we have that very clearly on the retina and that is included in it. Then there is Mrs Dik-Faber's question on the rail transport measure. Doesn't it work as a cost increase? Mr Geurts asked the same question. We are also preparing a measure to facilitate farmers. 50PLUS asked what we do with the latent, so the unused space in the permits. One proposal is, according to 50PLUS, that farmers should be compensated for the unused space. If a permit does not change, a farmer can simply use it to use the licensed stable. That is, of course, also the discussion we are having with the provinces at the moment. In the letter of 4 October, the cabinet clearly indicated how it looked at this, while several provinces were looking at it differently. I do think it's important to do justice to the fact that something is someone's property and that you don't just take it away again. That's quite a sensitive discussion, I say. Finally, they are not there to make more choices to support agriculture in order to reduce the contribution of emissions. That's exactly what we're doing. We do this through circular agriculture, by opening a scheme to stimulate innovation and by helping companies to form or if they want to end it. We have announced a number of steps for this, again in this letter. We shall come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u208	Then I'll go to Mr. Harbers first. He hasn't interfered so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u209	I have one question. The Minister tells us what that committee is going to do. I also drew attention to the fact that the completion of additional measuring points was very careful. I believe that this year we are talking about two measurement points. There really needs to be more measuring points. That cannot be in the timetable set out in the letter. You can't start the committee first and look at the measurement points to see a six months later. That's gotta come right up. If you want to take a step further with the adjustment of calculation models, you also need to have the measurement data that came from the additional measurement points. I ask the Minister to make real haste with the further extension of the measurement network.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u210	We're already looking at that. What is important is that we look at where we need to be measured. That is precisely what we need the knowledge of the experts for. I hear Mr Harbers' call not to look at it first for six months and then let it go over for another six months before we set up those measuring points, very well. At the same time, I do attach importance to the fact that these measuring points come in places where they really provide the most valuable information, and I do need some outside knowledge for that, to be honest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u211	Then let them, as a matter of priority, look at what they need for the follow-up to their mission, so that we really don't waste any time here. In particular, the dry deposition on the ground should really be able to be measured better.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u212	Yeah, clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u213	Has there been a question left, Mrs. Ouwehand?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u214	No, Mr. Chairman, but what the Minister says raises questions again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u215	One question, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u216	One question in two. The Animal Party has held a motion on the warm clean-up of pig farming. Animal rights are withdrawn from the market, but the Minister does not want to lower the phosphate ceiling. I still don't understand why. I wonder if the Minister's opinion on this has changed since the nitrogen measures. My second question is when will we be clear about what is and will not be compulsory for farmers? It is all voluntary, but we have heard the Prime Minister say that relocation may be mandatory. In fact, if you want to achieve your goals, a shrinkage will probably have to be mandatory. So when will the farmers be clear about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u217	The answer to the first question is no. Then there is the second question. I didn't hear the Prime Minister say that shrinkage should become mandatory. Those are the words of Mrs Ouwehand. As far as relocation is concerned, I've heard him say "Now I'm going to interpret his words," but I'm going to try to say that we have different possibilities. We have said that ourselves before. We have the possibilities of termination, displacement and transformation. If relocation is on the agenda, that is not something where you as a government bike by and say: you need to be moved. These are things you discuss with a farmer: we see that you are close to a Natura 2000 area, which makes you quite stuck. Often that is the reality with those farmers. Then we ask what the alternatives are, what they want and what they can do. Movement may be one of the options. Are we gonna move someone with the knife to the throat right away? No, that's not how we're gonna do it. Could the outcome of the journey be that a farmer says: I didn't have to, but maybe moving is an option anyway? Yes, you can. At present, provinces already have the powers to do so. This isn't new. This is just happening. But we are going to do it in a very careful way, where, of course, we have to think from that farmer's point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u218	Thank you. No, Mrs. Ouwehand, you have a second term. Then I will give the floor to the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u219	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A limited number of questions have been asked to me, to start with about speed. Mr Bishop has asked why speed reductions are needed throughout the country, rather than only in nature reserves. The RIVM pass-through shows that if you don't just take what hits right along the highways, but what eventually blows out all over the country, because they've allocated it to the whole country, which really has a greater effect. With the choice we have made now, to do so only during the day and to maintain the current regime at night, we can see that it will be sufficient to get that 30% reduction off the countryside first, to make the housing run smoothly and also to be able to carry out the main infrastructure projects.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u220	And all of Mr Bishop's questions have been answered now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u221	Actually, I think so. I hope so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u222	Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u223	At least the intention was to answer my question, and I appreciate that very much. Only my question was something else in tone. The essence of my question was: the reduction that we are forcing in the outskirts, in Zeeland and in Groningen, how does it have a concrete effect on the construction potential in the Randstad, because that is where the problem lies? I understand that this is an arithmetic exercise and that it's all right under the line, but that's exactly the problem. This is an accounting problem. This is underlined. This does not solve the real problems on the ground in the Randstad. That's the pain point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u224	If you have seen the tickets, you will also see that the vast majority of them can actually be solved with regard to housing and infrastructure projects, because we are talking about the short term. You will also receive a package in December in which we will collect the source measures in many areas. This will only solve the problems for next year. Then we'll take a closer look. You ask how that can make a difference across the country. For example, there is the reality that we have certain wind directions more often, which means that if something happens in Zeeland, it actually blows out all over the country. Something that takes place in Groningen also goes abroad in part. For example, where exactly, which part of the Netherlands can receive these emissions, has been allocated. Tickets show that this gives more space in many areas than in other areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u225	A follow-up question. The strange thing is that in the calculation model AERIUS there is a difference in scope, of the release of the substance and its precipitation. It is an accounting solution, but not a real approach to the problem, I think. That's what I'm gonna keep going.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u226	RIVM has allocated this well, taking into account all the different Natura 2000 sites, which are or are not highly nitrogen-sensitive. That is what we must rely on. Mr Schouten is already working on the area-based approach with the provinces, to see what tailor-made arrangements can take place in the provinces in order to give all these Natura 2000 sites what they are entitled to, and that is the nature restoration that is so badly needed. When does this reduction in speed take effect? We are going to try that as soon as possible, but you also understand that at least signs will be needed. It will require communication. I will also make agreements with JenV's colleague on how enforcement is going. I would like to show you the first effect of this before 1 December. I think I will then answer as many questions as possible in that area, because I do not have that instantly. At Rijkswaterstaat we constantly work very hard on how we can best shape this. I can already see Mrs De Pater-Postma looking at it, because of course she also expects the answer to the question whether the maximum speed on the matrix boards is being adjusted. From the debate we have had in the budget, she remembers that there are a number of matrix boards in the Netherlands that can only handle two figures. So you can't indicate a speed of 100. I will come back to this in a few weeks. I believe I have already promised you that I will let you know, for the general discussion on roads and road safety, how we are going to implement the motion. Mr De Groot and Mr Van Haga asked why the speed cannot simply be maintained for the electric car or the hydrogen car or something like that. That is, at the moment, a virtually impossible and not enforceable, and b we are not in favour of giving privileges to a small group of people who can afford such cars. We should therefore first look at the safety effects and so on. So that is out of the question at the moment. Mr Moorlag has asked whether speed controls are being stepped up or not. I haven't made a single statement on that yet. I tasted a little bit that there would have been things about this somewhere in the papers. I have said nothing but that I am going to talk to JenV's colleague about this in order to see exactly how we are going to do this. I will, of course, go along with him with him on how we are going to maintain this. So I'm going to get back to that. Mr Moorlag has also asked whether it is true that speed controls are not about the environment but about road safety. Speed enforcement, of course, in general, simply serves to comply with that applicable limit, no matter what it is introduced for. For example, when it was decided where 130 could or could not be imported, account was taken of the environment, noise and road safety.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u227	I thought this answer was a bit easy, because if we were all to drive electric, we wouldn't have this whole problem right now. It is a very good thing to reward people who drive electric or 100% electric. So what are the practical problems in making that exception 100% electric? You can just adjust it in the system: someone who drives 100% electric just doesn't get a fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u228	Then I can only repeat what I just indicated. It is practically impossible at the moment and not enforceable. It has not been taken into account at the moment. You don't want to give a small group that has currently been able to afford such a car a certain privilege. Of course, we have included agreements in the Climate Agreement where we strongly encourage more and more electrifying. You meant electric driving in this case, but the Prime Minister was asked yesterday whether we can bring the speed back if we all drive 100% electric or on hydrogen. That would be great, but I really don't want to promise anything I might not be able to deliver.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u229	It's not about giving people a privilege, is it? Those people are doing the right thing. They may have just spent a little extra money to drive sustainably. This is just a free way to reward these people again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u230	I can only say once more: I think that all those people who cannot afford such a car would find that very unfair.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u231	The Christian Union and D66 have previously received a motion from the Chamber on signs for people who drive electric, so that they can clearly see where they can charge. The Minister indicated that this is quite difficult. She tries to take it with her regular maintenance. But now we're going to do a whole exercise with the signage. The question of the Christian Union is: are there any possibilities to include the signage for electric driving? This is, of course, within the sine qua non that there should be no delay. I understand that very well. But now that we're getting to work, I'm asking the Minister to see if the signs for electric driving can also be included. Maybe she can take that with her in December's letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u232	I think these things are very little to each other, because this is a lot of signs that go along a lot of highways. We have previously indicated that we would work with work especially in the places where the charging option occurs. I believe that I have already made a commitment on this: before the general discussion on roads I will come back to the question of what the logo is going to look like and how that fits in with the late infrastructure plan. Mr Futselaar asked why these seven MIRT projects had been chosen. As regards those seven projects, the aim was already to use this reduction in the maximum speed as a mitigating measure. These projects are all so far in the process that without this approach, the delay would really increase. The success of these projects is also very important for the construction sector and is also necessary for the accessibility of the Netherlands. In the area-specific approach, of course, we will look further at what is still necessary for other projects.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u233	Have Mr Futselaar's questions been answered?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u234	Mr Klaver had asked why investment is being made in the expansion of the A27 while housing is needed. The Ring Utrecht is an essential part of our national road network. The flow on that ring is also very important, but that ring is also important in relation to the housing. People who live somewhere also move around and that needs to be facilitated. You can't just do that with the ov and the bike. This project also includes sound screens that improve the livingability of the people living around. In addition to the effects on flow, the integration measures have a positive impact on the housing that is planned there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u235	Brief question, Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u236	Always, Mr. Chairman. Some of these seven projects are indeed very controversial. Amelisweerd is one of our beautiful national nature reserves. If it is said that the national network is important when it comes to transport, I say: let us not forget nature. This increase in asphalt will eventually also increase nitrogen emissions. That is the result of more roads. This is part of the package that actually makes the problem worse rather than helping to combat it. For that space we could also build more houses, we could build national security dikes and so on. So isn't it very unwise to do some things here for the flow? Thanks to this reduction in speed, I think the traffic flow is already improving, so you don't have to broaden those roads for that. Isn't it very counterproductive to say of the seven: we're going to continue with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u237	No, that is not counterproductive because these seven projects are very much needed to achieve that flow. We can already see that the traffic jams are increasing. If we take these measures, you'll see we're getting more traffic. You also know that, precisely because of congestion, the constant slowing down and lifting up, emissions are increasing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u238	Mr Klaver, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u239	If the expansion of the A27 at Amelisweerd does not happen, how many more homes can be built because of the nitrogen space that will then be released?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u240	I'm not ready to do that. We also didn't get it calculated by the RIVM, because it is of course area dependent. By the way, Amelisweerd is not a Natura 2000 site. At least we haven't linked it to homes per project. It's generic. The minister who's about to live will say something about it later. So you can't start counting that one-on-one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u241	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u242	You can do that. It takes nitrogen space in the area and then you can't use it to build homes. I find it rather remarkable that seven infrastructure projects are going ahead but we do not know what it would mean for housing if they did not continue. That is why I would like to ask whether it is possible to indicate in the second term what it will not mean for the nitrogen space and therefore also for housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u243	The answer I can give now is that with this package we first looked at whether these 75,000 homes could already be used. In addition, these projects can also be carried out. The 30% for nature we've already skimmed. Then we go into the area-oriented process to see what more can be done about other projects. You will agree with me that the construction sector consists of more than just housing. There's the utility building, there's also the ground, road and water construction. It is incredibly important that these people should be able to keep their businesses on their feet and that employment should also be able to continue to do so. Even in the short term; we cannot put that on the long run.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u244	Have all the Members of Parliament's questions been answered with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u245	No. I have a few other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u246	Very briefly, Mr. Clover. You also have a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u247	Yes, but the Minister has also been a member of this Chamber. I have a request for information and the Minister does not go into that. In the second term, I would like information on the impact of these seven road construction projects on housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u248	I've already given that answer. The homes that are needed in the coming year can be made easy. For the years after, we have a long-term package on how to solve it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u249	No, Mr. Clover, I'm sorry. In your second term, you can come back to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u250	I have given an answer which Mr Klaver does not like, but it is the answer. Then I come to a question from Mr Geurts. Can both the construction and dredging sectors now work? Mr Van Veldhoven will say something about the dredging in relation to the pfas. However, I think it is important to emphasise that we have been very hard at work with the package that comes under the emergency law; that is, everything that is really related to safety. This means that we can continue projects for the coastal supplement, so the strengthening of the coast that is simply needed, the dike reinforcements needed to keep dry feet, but also for the crucial management and maintenance of bridges such as the IJssel Bridge and the Van Brienenoord Bridge. Because, of course, we cannot afford to be unable to use these bridges because we would have to close them for security reasons. In addition, we can also offer space for those seven MIRT routes that would otherwise really result in the delay. The third track is, of course, the area-oriented one, so that we can see what else is needed and possible in the various regions. Then there is a question from Mr Klaver about air traffic. Why don't we say something about that now? There is now no room for that in this package. We will receive an opinion from the Remkes Committee before the end of this year. That's what we're waiting for. Those were my questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u251	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister for the Environment and Living.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u252	Mr. Chairman. I do have two parts in my wallet that are both affected by this. I shall first address the questions about housing and then the questions about the environment. First of all, the question of the Labour Party. Can the Minister guarantee that 75,000 homes will be built next year? These measures provide enough nitrogen space to create 75,000 homes. The commitment is thus also to realise the ambition of 75,000 homes next year. So we're doing everything we can to get that 75,000, but as a rich man, I don't build houses. So the deployment of municipalities, provinces, builders and developers is of course ultimately decisive for the result. There is another question from the PvdA on this same point. Maybe I'll answer that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u253	Yeah, I'd wait for the answer before anyone interrupts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u254	The PvdA had indeed asked a supplementary question, namely whether space is equally large everywhere and whether there are specific bottlenecks. Space isn't the same everywhere. It's just... it's just... it's just... it's So there will also have to be a local review of what exactly is possible. We all know that the tickets also show that they are not based on the overall package of measures but on part of the package of measures that is more limited in the coastal zone. But there are also additional possibilities with the current package. That is why it is important that we keep looking critically at how we can use the space as efficiently as possible to build as many homes as possible for the teacher, the police officer, the nurse, all of whom really need that affordable home. In addition, additional measures can be taken locally to reduce nitrogen emissions. I am thinking, for example, of the very low parking standard that Utrecht has chosen in the Merwedekanaal zone. But I am also thinking, for example, of, I think, Eindhoven, where they have lifted a P+R site. That offered the space to build those homes on the spot. So much is possible and there are also additional possibilities for action locally. Those were the questions from the Labour Party which I had received on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u255	Very briefly, Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u256	The title of Mr Remkes' report is not everything can be done, but here it is suggested that everything can be done. The letter says that the MIRT projects have priority. The RIVM has great doubts whether enough can be built here in the western part of the country. It only has to be a bit disappointing and those permits become vulnerable again. Does the Minister share my view that housing should be a priority so that this necessary need for life can be met?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u257	You haven't heard me say that everything can now. You have heard me say that I also see that it will fit and measure in the coastal strip. But with the space that has now been created, RIVM has calculated that the ambition of 75,000 houses across the country... Because there is not only a need for coastal development, a point that Mr Moorlag in the WHO that we recently had, has also brought to the attention of himself clearly and rightly. There is a need for extra houses throughout the Netherlands, and this package offers space for 75,000 homes throughout the Netherlands. The fact that the cabinet said "we want to remove this space, this first short blow, in particular those houses and a number of urgent infrastructure projects," indicates that the urgency of housing is also shared by the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u258	Thanks, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u259	Finalizing, Mr. Chairman. If it is disappointing at this point, does the Minister think it is legitimate that the MIRT infrastructure projects should be used for housing, whereas it should actually meet an essential need for people to live?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u260	Two things about that. There's an overshoot in the package. So in the package we have already taken into account an additional margin, in case anything would ever go wrong. The second is that houses and infrastructure do not all compete exactly in the same place to the same degree. It also depends on how tight it is in the region in question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u261	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u262	Mr. Chairman. Then the CDA asked when the shovel could get back into the ground. Fortunately, I hear from the provinces signs that the licensing process has started again since the letter of 4 October and that they really want to use the space available. I also appeal to all the municipalities to use the space created by the cabinet. Prepare the permit so that you can get your hands on the button as soon as possible. For the authorisation that is made possible by the nitrogen measures can start after the emergency law has been adopted and introduced by the two chambers. Prepare it, make sure the plans are ready and put them in RIS as soon as the emergency law is through the Chambers, would be my call. On the question of whether there's any way to get rid of it, I've just gone into it. Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna turn to the questions about pfas, which is also a really big problem. We have spoken to many builders and dredgers and I fully understand the urgency of these people. Their reality is that every day counts. That is, I think, also the reality with which we try to deal as a cabinet. Sometimes things go slower than you'd like, they take more time than you'd like, but sometimes it just can't go faster. We've got to do everything we can. Some very specific questions. D66 early: can we say that dumping contaminated sludge in nature reserves is history? In answer to that, I say: dumping in nature is by definition prohibited. Then the SGP asked if the PFAs standards would be relaxed. Since decentralisation, soil policy has actually been the responsibility of the municipalities. The tool that the municipalities have to offer space in the municipality is the soil quality maps. We see that it takes a lot of time to adapt these soil quality maps in all these municipalities. Technically it's not even my competence anymore, but I've pulled it a little bit towards me to see if we can offer some space through a national background value in all those municipalities where they're really busy, but where it's not all finished yet. That's why I ordered RIVM to quickly derive a temporary background value. I understand very well the question whether it can't go any faster. That is also the question I have put very strongly to the RIVM. Do you need people to do that? Do you guys need resources? Is there anything I can do to make it go faster? But their answer is: no, we can't do anything about it anymore; we don't need anything from you to do it any faster: we just need this time. They too know that if we can do it one day faster, we'll be happy with every day that saves. Then I'll definitely come to the Chamber sooner. This is how I understood the SGP's call: every day counts and you want to come sooner if you can? The answer to that is a definite yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u263	Oh, my God, I can't believe I broke my nugget. The Minister himself introduced that scheme when she was still State Secretary. I believe that on 1 August you proclaimed an arrangement which, if I am well informed, entered into force on 1 October with that 0.1 limit. Then why did you do that? After that we heard from about everyone who works in construction that you are already above that 0.1 if you put a kick in the ground anywhere in the Netherlands. You created the problem yourself. So now a little crocodile tears cry and say: I understand the problem and that needs to be resolved quickly? You made it, and there was no Habitats directive behind it or anything. You've done that spontaneously. Why?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u264	There's a Law Soil that existed before I became Secretary of State. It follows from that soil legislation that you cannot apply soil containing a contaminated substance without a policy framework. That's when everything got jammed. There was no policy framework, because we did not know before that this substance was in all those places. At that time, municipalities and provinces said: we are against this, help us with a policy framework. Indeed, that policy framework was drawn up before the summer, at the request of provinces and municipalities, to help them gain more space than the law offers. To give them more space, I sent that policy framework to the Chamber for the summer. There was also a transitional period for certain projects until 1 October, in consultation with the municipalities, provinces and the sector. We have all seen that the problems have not yet been solved. That's why we're working hard together to solve it. That temporary framework offers more scope than the law, and the law was there before I became Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u265	That really is a total bullshit story, a total bullshit story. You made that 0.1% up yourself. No one has submitted it to you, and it was not in the law. You have decided for yourself, although you may have asked for some advice on this matter. And that 0.1% pfas is now the reason that your own cabinet gets a billion-dollar claim, that those builders say it's all taking way too long, that today, yesterday, it should have been changed the day before yesterday, that that standard should have been raised, and not in December. So what do you think? One. Why did you put that standard so ridiculously low, at 0.1? And two. You're the causer, you're Mrs. Pfas of the Netherlands. Why don't you make sure that standard goes up immediately tomorrow? Why don't you? People were helped with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u266	In everything we do, we have to make sure that we have a good basis, and that is why we don't just change a standard. Therefore, RIVM is working very hard to establish this national background value, so that we can set a standard based on facts that adequately protects our environment and our health. Then the 0.1. Did I fix that? No. The 0.1 follows from the legislation and I have given more room with the temporary framework of action. For everything that's living and industry, that space is 373. For everything that is agriculture and nature, that space is simply the background value. Measuring is knowing. If you measure, you can do more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u267	You really did that 0.1 yourself, didn't you? I've read the decision. Apart from the 373, it is the 0.1 that applies. That's what you did, and that's gonna get you a billion-dollar claim on your pants. Again, you're Mrs. Pfas. All the people who go to work at seven o'clock to work in construction, just to build houses that we need, as far as you haven't given them to asylum seekers, are already at home. Those companies are going bankrupt because of your standard. So don't sit here a little hypocrite saying "I get it better" and "RIVM." You did that, and you're not woman enough to say, "I shouldn't have done that." And you're certainly not woman enough to say, "I'm adjusting it now." You're no good to people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u268	This simply follows from the legislation and that is what I am implementing. At the same time, we are working very hard to find the space that can be found. The suggestion made by Mr Wilders, that it can just be adjusted, creates a false picture. It's just creating a false image. That's actually giving hope to people he shouldn't give. We're just gonna have to do the law right here. That's what we're really working on. We make every effort to offer as much space as possible as soon as possible. That's what we're doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u269	I have also come to earthmoving companies where people are simply fired by December and where machinery is currently stationary. That's coming in, I can tell you. We have a temporary framework for action. Can't we disable that? Can't the minister just say: we tolerate that period? Now, projects that were allowed to take place in June are not allowed. Municipalities and provinces have just issued permits there, and they are not allowed to do so at once. That's what happened in the past. When dredging, the same is true. Can't we just say there: we tolerate this in that period, so things that were allowed before the summer, can also be allowed after the summer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u270	This was done precisely because municipalities and provinces stopped granting the authorisation on the basis of the law, because the law prescribed it to them. Then they asked me to come up with a framework for action. If I delete that framework of action, we'll fall back on the law, and it's even more stringent. The temporary framework of action gives room. The law is subject to the limit of determination. That's the 0.1. It follows from the legal framework. That is true, unless there is a framework of standards. That is the temporary framework for action. That says: for living and industry it is 3-7-3. That framework of action says that it is the background value for nature and agriculture. So if you measure a higher value locally, you can apply that value. If I scrape the framework of action, that space will be completely gone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u271	Please continue. No, Mr Harbers has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u272	I'm still brooding, even on what the minister just said. Perhaps my question is a variant of what Mr Geurts has just asked. The Minister indicated: I have also had a chance to do a transitional period until 1 October for projects that were already running. This is really a matter of days! Every day there are companies that have to send people home. If this transitional period was possible until 1 October, will it provide some relief for the next few days and weeks, in order to do so in the same way as it did before 1 October?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u273	It is important to have clarity about the deadline of 1 October. This is a time-limit that was also created in consultation with the sector, provinces and municipalities. That transitional period was only applicable to ongoing projects. All other projects were immediately subject, as from June, to compliance with the new measurements from the moment the temporary framework of action was sent. Are there really any concrete problems in that batch that got that exception until October? They say: our project is falling silent now? And has all the real things been done there, namely'measuring is knowing'? Because then you can just use the space that there is. If there are any bottlenecks in that batch, then I call on these projects to come to the Ministry, because then we will look at them. We do not want things to lie down unnecessarily.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u274	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u275	The VVD asked: can this new temporary standard be available earlier? If we can do it sooner, we're really gonna do it. Every day counts. I hear Mr Harbers say, I hear the CDA say it, and they are right to say it. That urgency is really felt with me, and also with RIVM. People are working very hard on that. I think I can say on behalf of my colleagues here that we are also very grateful for all the hard work done by people at RIVM. They really work day and night to ensure that we can support our decisions. The VVD also asked if the state's bagger depots have sufficient capacity to store dredging. Yeah, that room's enough. The first step is to put dreary on the sidelines. There is a lot of misunderstanding about what can be done; let me say that. If you're dredging, you can just put the dredging aside. If you can't pull over, it can go to a temporary depot. Waterboards often make use of this. The rural background value is also going to give more space to set up pasture depots and to use that storage option again. So they can set up new depots if they want. You can also store land within an existing company for six months. You may store land in approved establishments for at least three years. But there may also be dredging specks that are too heavily polluted to store anywhere. This dredging stock, which can't get a recovery application anywhere, can be deposited in state-owned deposit boxes, even if it contains pfas. That was unclear, and that has now become clear. As of today, these state trooper depots will be open again. There's really millions of cub space in there. I also ask operators and the competent authority to talk proactively, to see if the permits and facilities can be made appropriate as soon as possible where this would not be the case. The task force can also play a role in this. The VVD asked a question about water, surface water and groundwater. So we have a national background value for land as of 1 December. RWS will also map the current quality of the water floor before 1 December, in collaboration with RIVM and Deltares. This therefore sets a standard for the water bottom as the standard we have for land. That is crucial, because many of the work is also dredging. Due to the mobile character of pfas, RIVM has stated that we need to be extra careful when applying soil or dredging with pfas that comes into contact with groundwater. Because under groundwater level, pfas-containing soil and dredging soil can come into direct contact with groundwater. That groundwater is used in parts of the Netherlands, especially in the east, to make drinking water. Then there is an extra reason to be careful. But if groundwater is very close to surface water, as is the case here in this region, then it is only counted at a depth from one metre below the ground, rather than below the ground water level. I say this in response to Mr Harbers. Finally, before applying in deep puddles, which is often an application for dredging, I have to examine what space provides temporary standards for water quality. I will also clarify this on 1 December. That was an ongoing process, but we can also say more about it on 1 December. A question of the VVD was also: can the inventory also be used for municipalities and other parties to determine soil quality, including to save costs and time? Yes. The data used for national values will be made public on a map by 1 December. This provides insight into the measurement data for the sector and for municipalities. These are not an independent means of proof, but can be used by the municipality to adjust that soil quality card with more speed, to prevent double measurement and to make more speed. It might be good to show you here what the adaptation of the soil quality map means; it is not at all about which municipalities it happens to be. On the left side of the map you see a municipality, where yellow indicates where there is still space and blue where the 0.1 still applies. The municipality that modified it offers space at once on an entire territory. In a municipality that hasn't adapted it yet, it's much harder. The yellow space is the space that already exists under the current regulations. Adjusting the soil quality map is therefore really crucial. We would like to actively support aldermen who are wondering how to adapt soil quality maps. We will do that with an accelerated procedure; I will come back to that in a moment. That E.R.A. was sent to your room today. We want to make it possible for an alderman himself to establish a soil management note. Some questions were also asked about this in the written procedure. This will enable them to speed up the process of getting the quality card in place. That is the existing quality, I say to GroenLinks, who had questions about it. This means that the existing space can really be used; we can really help each other in that. There is also a helpdesk and there is a flying brigade in support. We want to stand by with advice and deed. We're even gonna make some kind of model bottom note, just like you have some kind of model contract, so you just have to fill in the name of your municipality and the measurements. That's all to keep that speed in. What do the measures mean in concrete terms for builders and land companies? There's more space.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u276	I'm sorry to interrupt, but I need an idea of how much you think you need.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u277	It won't be that long now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u278	I understand that there must be votes after the first deadline.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u279	I think I've got a magazine or five left.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u280	Yeah, that's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u281	The next question is from the Christian Union. What can we do to support municipalities? The decision on soil quality will be amended by the accelerated procedure in order to speed up the adoption of the soil quality map. We provide a general example for the soil management note, the expert team and the task force. Wherever we can, we support. Then the Christian Union also asked a very logical question: shouldn't there eventually be a ban on pfas? Shouldn't we shut the tap down? Yes, of course. The crane must also be closed. We are therefore committed to a European ban as broad as possible, because it does matter: if Germany shuts down the tap, it will no longer enter our country via the rivers. We have every interest in a strong European source policy. The cabinet is firmly committed to that, too. Mr Haga asked where the standard follows. I think I have just answered this question in detail: from soil legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u282	We do need to address the sources. A European ban is nice, but while we are having this debate, Chemours is just about to eject GenX. That's one of those pfas substances. Shouldn't we also take stricter measures here, in our own country? Very specific: GenX finally came on the list of very worrying substances after years. Can't we expand it much more, with other products? Are there initiatives for this, or is that not happening at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u283	It's all part of the source policy, and we're working hard on it. GenX did not happen to be on that list in Europe. This cabinet pushed for this on behalf of the Netherlands. In Europe it has now also been notified as part of ZZS. So we are working very hard on source policy and very worrying substances. There is also a list of potentially very worrying substances that RIVM is now warning against. We want to ensure that such substances are carefully assessed in Europe and, if necessary, put on that list.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u284	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u285	About Chemours: we also work extremely hard there. The province of Zuid-Holland also assumes its responsibilities when it comes to strengthening the licensing requirements. Emissions have already been reduced by 90%.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u286	Then I suggest... Mr. Futselaar, I know...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u287	Can we expect information about a supplement to that list in the long term?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u288	Once in a while, there will be a letter about the ZZS policy. I will certainly take these points into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u289	Okay. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u290	Drinking water companies and water boards can extract those substances from the water, early 50PLUS. Drinking water companies always apply a purification. They do that as little as possible, but here too, research is being done on how to remove this mess. RWS also carries out further research into the possibilities for a real cleaning. Mr President, I think these are the questions I was asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u291	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the government's first term. Behind the scenes it has been made clear that we are going to vote after the first term, so I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments. No, I didn't. Mr Wilders has a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u292	Mr President, I have actually said in my interruption to Mr Rutte that I am considering tabling a motion of censure in the second term. I am fine with voting now, but we should do it again in a moment. You could also decide to do that second term and then vote in one vote, then not everyone will have to come back again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u293	Let me first see if there is any objection to Mr Wilders being given the opportunity to submit his motion in advance, so that we can vote in one vote later. No, no one objects to a motion of censure from Mr Wilders?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u294	I think this is a very good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u295	You agree, Mrs. Ouwehand?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u296	We'll just make Mr. Wilders' motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u297	Yes. Okay, thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Wilders to table a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u298	Mr. Chairman. For the first time, this is called a constructive motion of censure. Mr. Chairman. Motorists going is today's news, occupying the Malieveld. At least, they're going to protest at the Malieveld. In a time of a VVD-premier, that's a unique thing. It actually says enough, it actually says enough. We have a VVD Prime Minister, but not only is petrol the most expensive in Europe, but I believe that we also have the lowest speed limit in Iceland. Mr. Chairman. And why? For nothing. I'm not going to repeat it all, but I already said it in my first term: nature is doing very well in the Netherlands. So there is not only no reason to bully the motorist, but also no reason to catch those farmers and those builders. I think that might be the worst of what's happening now. It affects people who have done nothing at all. They are construction workers who just get up in the morning to go to work to work in construction and farmers who just get up in the morning to milk their cows or do something else, who just work hard and who are the backbone of our economy. In fact, they have contributed to reducing nitrogen levels in the Netherlands. Those people need to be afraid of their jobs now. Again, in construction, they're already at home on the couch. I hate that. That's unfair. That's unfair. People haven't done anything, but they're screwed anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u299	Now the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u300	Mr. Chairman. The cabinet does not do anything about it and does not want to do anything about it. It bends for Europe. We have seen it before with the pulse fishing and the people in Urk, the heroes in Urk, because the Minister of Agriculture was not woman enough to defend against Europe. The fact that this is happening again is unacceptable. As far as we are concerned, this policy and this cabinet must not be there. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[declares confidence in the cabinet,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35334-4]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-14-tweedekamer-9.u301	I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments. After the suspension, we'll vote.
