ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is a debate on the use of cash in society. There have been no fewer than eleven speakers, each with four minutes' speaking time. I call Mr Van Rooijen of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u2	Mr. Chairman. The end of the month, that's a time when a large part of the Dutch people can no longer pin for a bus ticket to that company on a remote industrial site, for a bag of potatoes at the supermarket but also to just walk through the passage of Rotterdam Centraal. Try that with no balance. Not only transport costs money nowadays, but also to be allowed to walk in certain places you need balance. A coat bag full of coins is then completely worthless. The slow disappearance of the use of cash in society affects mainly the elderly, the disabled, the low-literate, who appear to be 2.5 million people, but above all all all those for whom there is still a month left at the end of the month in retirement or pay. Then you could always search pockets, open drawers and collect small money to get through the last days of the month. This emergency solution for many Dutch people, that last straw in the household of the lowest incomes, slowly disappears from payments. In the meantime, less than four out of ten payments are still made in cash. The Nederlandsche Bank is concerned about the rapidly decreasing use of cash and 50PLUS is concerned about this. Some of the elderly are struggling with pins. Disabled and low-literate people can no longer keep an overview, not to mention the dangers of malfunctions in the vulnerable pin system and the advance of hackers. Therefore: Paying with cash must always be possible. It's as simple as that. Because unbridled digitalization can lead to vulnerable consumers being left behind and possibly even completely excluded from payments. For them, active participation in our society is simply blocked. Only yesterday, the Rabobank was struck by a major disturbance. Each bank has its turn a few times a year, due to business errors, integrity issues, vulnerable infrastructures, hacker attacks or failures at iDEAL. And then I let the risk of solar storms and electromagnetic pulses in 1859, it really came up for.......................................................................................................................................................... What I want to say is that, for several reasons, we cannot afford to allow cash to disappear slowly. Otherwise, we'll be incredibly sorry. If you cannot pay cash in a store, you go to the competitor, but with the state services and municipal services it is not possible to deviate anyway. Therefore, municipalities must continue to accept cash, for example for a passport. As far as we are concerned, Parliament is obliged to impose this. There is a need for a soil in this development. In the run-up to this debate, I have been informed that the Terneuzen hospital has decided to make cash payments possible. I hope many hospitals will follow when you're required there. We may even find cashless payments super useful, we may even find that we do not need cash. But we all know people who don't stand up for this. We must therefore show solidarity with consumers for whom developments are moving too fast. Then, of course, it is wise to send out the right signals already. If people know that politics is ready with policy instruments, then we may not have to use them. I was and am therefore happy with the commitment of De Nederlandsche Bank. They've clearly taken a stand. I also understand the concerns expressed by the cabinet, but I also fear that understanding and monitoring the situation underestimates the seriousness of this problem for some of the population. The Dutch Bank also warns: we hope for a polder way but if that doesn't work you can think of rules; they already do that in Scandinavia, for example. I would like to hear from the Minister that he basically shares this view of De Nederlandsche Bank. It is up to politicians to decide whether regulation needs to be adapted. As soon as some large supermarket groups or large retail chains would no longer accept cash, it can happen very quickly. At some point the cash infrastructure is also affected, and when that happens, there is no going back. Many municipalities were already over 21 years ago demanding that citizens pay their driver's license or passport only with a pin. That needs to be reversed. Municipalities just have to accept cash. It's as simple as that. That's what 50PLUS thinks. In October last year, the European Central Bank also said that a municipal pin-only policy should not be allowed. Mr. Chairman. Finally. I would like to draw attention to the possibility offered by banks to reduce the daily limit on debit cards to €250. For many people, it would be even better if this ceiling could be further reduced to, for example, €100. If you are only then stolen, and that is very common, especially in the elderly, the damage is still to be seen. I would like to hear from the Minister what he thinks of this suggestion and whether he can do something about it, for example by talking to the banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u3	Mr Van Rooijen said that it should always be possible to pay cash. Does he mean that this should remain possible in all places in today's society? Or does he really mean: until the eternity of days it must always be possible to pay cash?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u4	I'm not one of the youngest anymore, so I can't judge what's going on in the next few centuries or even in the next 30 years. I think it is clear that 50PLUS believes that cash payments should remain possible, especially where there is a monopoly position of municipalities or other state services. I'd even like to mention hospitals. That's what I did. The European Central Bank thinks that, The Netherlands Bank thinks that and it is a legal tender. If something is legal tender, it must remain so. I hope you support that. Until when, that's a completely different question. But at least for the next 20 years, which I hope to see.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u5	I hope so, too. That's what I'm assuming. In my view, exceptions are made to that pin-only policy in municipalities. This has also been communicated in response to colleagues' parliamentary questions. I am trying to find out exactly what Mr Van Rooijen's position is when he says: it must always be possible. I also see that for the next 20 years, especially for this kind of government institution, we will simply have to guarantee that. For example, if Mr Van Rooijen says that we should legally anchor this, I believe that we also have the more fundamental discussion about how long we will do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u6	You also know that if you legally anchor it, you can review it later for whatever reason and change the law again. But we do want this to be regulated by law. In this context, the letter that Mrs Ollongren sent to the municipalities is a bit of an empty box. She says: I think the municipalities should allow it; how they arrange it, they should know for themselves; but if they don't, I'm not going to impose any fines. In other words, if municipalities just stick pin only and so refuse cash, I'll let that happen. That is why I asked for this debate and a letter from the Minister of Finance in June. But "always" you shouldn't take too literally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u7	It was March again. Then I simply misunderstood it very much and indeed it is not always. We're gonna make a law that's gonna have to make sure that it stays up for the next 20 years, and we're gonna see what happens after that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u8	I think Mr Van Rooijen's speech is very limited to municipalities. As we all know, nowadays if you want to park somewhere, you can only use your pass. Or if you want to take the train. Then you can only pay with your pass. In other words, does Mr Van Rooijen not think that this obligation should be extended? As long as cash is legal tender, you have to be able to pay with it anywhere. Actually, you have to be able to pay anywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u9	I welcome Mr Van Dijck's question. I also included in my speech that we should keep cash everywhere as legal tender. You don't have a choice in municipalities, but you do have a choice out there. The Minister refers in his letter to vulnerable groups, such as low-schools, disabled people, the elderly and children. Kids can already have a pass. If that pass doesn't work, they just have to be able to pay cash when they have to take the train or bus to school. They can forget about the ATM card. This should remain possible, not only in municipalities or other state services, but in general.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u10	So if it's an obligation then, because now it doesn't say in the law that we can force a shopkeeper to accept a particular legal tender, should we change that law? So that every shopkeeper who starts a shop is obliged in the Netherlands to accept any legal tender?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u11	Actually, that's already in the law. Although, it is a legal tender, but if you read the documents correctly, the minister says that also..................................................................................................................................................................................................... So you can forbid someone to pay attention to a legal tender, though, a legal tender..................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We believe that there should be a duty for public services in any case. Mr Ronnes and I will come to that in the second term, in the first term, we will discuss it together with a motion on that point. But what I have to say, and you will hear it from Mr Ronnes, is broader, that the possibility of paying for vulnerable groups everywhere remains with cash. Fortunately, the Minister thinks so too, some sort of pin-only ban.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u12	Well, I still don't understand what we're gonna do with stores and commercial companies. If I order a book over the Internet, should I be able to pay in cash?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u13	I told you that when a store says "you can only pin here," you go to another store. I said that if the big retailers and chains are all going to say 'you can only pay with pin', then many vulnerable groups will have a bridge too far. That's why we say we shouldn't get that far. If it were to come to that, I think that as a Chamber we should say to the cabinet that there is then: do you want to act, because that possibility must remain.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u14	But what do you intend to legally regulate on that point?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u15	We now want to regulate by law that municipalities should not prohibit you from paying in cash, which, incidentally, the Netherlands Bank considers to be incorrect and so does the European Central Bank.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u16	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. Mr Nijboer of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u17	Mr. Chairman. All those English terms at 50PLUS, a pin-only ban, I still have to get used to it but it's going the right way. Mr. Chairman. We sometimes talk about very difficult subjects here and sometimes also about subjects that concern everyone. Before the recess, we had a little debate about time and now about money, which everyone has to deal with every day. How do you pay, anyway? And what does the legal means of payment that we have actually mean, money? We have received a letter from the Minister with all legal considerations, that sometimes you have to be able to pay with pin or that you can leave it to shops. And to be honest, the PvdA Group understands this when there is real danger in the work, if there have been often robberies. Then I can understand that, or if a parking machine is constantly being demolished by vandals. We also know about ATMs themselves where people live above that these ramcracking have been carried out again lately, which is really serious. So there's something to say for the sake of safety that it can't always be done. On the other hand, the PvdA Group wonders what a legal tender is worth if even municipalities can simply say when issuing passports: you cannot pay as you wish. While there are really good reasons to be able to pay in cash. For example, because you have debt problems and want to learn how to deal with money again. Because you have limited vision and actually want to pay cash. Because you want to learn how to handle money when you're a kid. We all know how wrong it can be with those credit card companies and if you do everything online. It has also been researched extensively, that you can learn that much better in cash than when you start pinning it all. So that also has quite a lot of educational value. And you can do it for the sake of privacy. You just can't want anyone tracking you back or back there or reading all that on your transcripts. Mr. Chairman. Those are all legitimate reasons. The question to the Minister is: what exactly is the Dutch explanation? Because, of course, we can refer to a ruling by the European Supreme Court and to a directive that explains it all. I find that all interesting, but we can simply choose our own position. The position of the PvdA is that in principle it has to be paid with cash. In the direction of Mr Van der Linde, I say: if you order online, of course you cannot pay in cash; that also makes no sense. You have just asked Mr Van Rooijen to clarify this; I understand that. That you can't pay in cash at a parking machine, I get it from time to time. But in principle it should also be possible in a bus. I understand that safety is important for bus drivers, but on the other hand it is a real public function. Why wouldn't you be able to pay in cash in public transport?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u18	I'm gonna have to jump in on that. For years it has been very common that you made purchases that you made at a distance, just paid through the mailman, so that can be fine. The only question is, do you want to make it mandatory?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u19	So my answer is no. You asked Mr Van Rooijen that question a little challenging. I give a clear answer to that: no. I don't think we're going to put that back in. Then we've got more mail delivery guys picking up money from the doors. I don't think that's safe either. Mr. Chairman. I come to my second point: costs. It's cost-effective. It's easy. We can now also pay anywhere and anywhere with rings. That is good, but it is so badly related to the cost to the consumer. Earlier a bank account was still free, but every year the cost of holding a bank account goes up. That's weird, isn't it? Banks say cash costs us about 2 billion a year. It's all much more efficient now, but the cost of keeping a bank account goes up. Why does it not benefit the consumer? Are ATM transactions, which are really cheap in the Netherlands, also internationally compared, as cheap as they are now? There's a deal about it, but it's gonna end too. So I ask the Minister: will they continue to apply in the Netherlands in the longer term? Mr. Chairman. The third issue is the paper house. La casa de papel; that's a popular Netflix series. I thought I'd bring it up anyway. Wrongly enough, a cash transporter went bankrupt in the Netherlands. We're gonna use it less, but to what extent is that system still safe? Does the Minister know an answer to that? Finally, Mr President. One of the first things I did in the Chamber was plead for the ban on the 500 euro banknote, the international drug currency. There are more 500 euro notes in Latin America than in Europe. The European Central Bank, at the request of Minister Dijsselbloem at the time, has come to the conclusion that we must get rid of it. But what's the deal with that now? Is that thing finally being taken out of the market? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u20	Thank you. I call Mr Ronnes of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's from those discussions. I sometimes wonder if next generations still have to get their license when they're 18. Don't we all have self-driving cars by then? Don't we all have a subscription to a streaming service instead of a subscription to a TV station? You might ask yourself the same thing when using cash. Isn't digitization going so fast that soon no one will be using cash at all? What does that mean? Does that mean everyone's gonna be able to play? The figures speak for themselves. In 2016, 45% of all transactions were paid in cash. In the first half of 2018, this had already fallen to 39%. The stock's falling hard. But at the same time you have to note that almost four out of ten cash payments are. Actually, that's a lot. There are large groups of people in our country for whom the use of cash is very important, for example because they want to control their spending. Papers and coins in your wallet give you more insight than a pass. It is therefore essential for the CDA that the use of cash as legal means of payment is not made impossible. Accepting the euro coin or euro banknotes remains the starting point. We read in a very clear letter from the Minister that the development of more and more card payments has been co-launched by the Pin Agreement of 2014. Now, of course, the CDA also experiences the benefits of debit payments. Pins is fast. It's cheap. And it's relatively safe. But cash is just a valid means of payment, the acceptance of which must be high and remain high. Can the Minister guarantee that in the case of counter purchases, cash will in most cases simply remain accepted? What's he gonna do if it turns out that this is really getting worse? A concrete example of this was the reason for Mr Van Rooijen's request for a debate. There are municipalities in 2016 that were 21, but it seems that the number of municipalities operating a pin-only policy has increased. That doesn't seem to be the best example of the CDA. After all, with a municipality, the government closest to the citizen, you get your passport, or you get your marriage or driver's license. Those documents should also be accessible to people who want to pay with cash. The solution that you can transfer money in advance at home is a sham solution. The possibility of paying with cash should certainly be guaranteed by governments, such as municipalities. Does the Minister agree with us? Another aspect that we need to take into account concerns the threats to digital payments from cyber attacks or the failure of the digital infrastructure. The impact of an attack on high-quality payments is considered significant. As backup cash remains an option right now. How do we ensure that a minimum level of cash can be maintained so that we can fall back on this in the event of systems failing? Is it known what minimum level of cash is needed to keep payments possible in the Netherlands in the event of a temporary failure of digital payments? However, let us not pretend that payments are becoming more and more digital. Many older people are now digitally skilled and use bank apps. Digitalization can also be used for people who live on budget, for example by making clear through an app how much they have to spend, with forward-looking options and things like that. Those opportunities should not be missed by financial services providers, banks first and foremost. In the context of the debt approach, will the Minister also bring these opportunities to the attention of his colleague Van Ark? Another concern is whether our children continue to understand sufficiently how important it is to handle money carefully, whether physically, cash or digitally. With cash it seems that so far more awareness can be given to children. As parents, education, banks and society as a whole, we have a task here to give this awareness in new forms in a more digitally operating world. Truly a great challenge!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u22	Mr Alkaya has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u23	I think it is important to understand exactly what Mr Ronnes means. He states that the acceptance of cash remains important. That's 96% quite high, it's in the cabinet's letter. I actually think it's crazy to talk about percentages. I've heard several parties talk about things like a city counter or a parking machine. Of that, you would actually want the guarantee to be 100% within that framework. However, it could be said from other services that this may not require legal intervention, and this could be covered by coverage of less than 90% or 80%. Is that the CDA's angle? Is this 96% a kind of average, or does the CDA agree that certain provisions should be 100% guaranteed that cash remains accepted?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u24	I'll take an example, the municipalities. I believe that we, as a government, should now set an example to companies in the Netherlands, other bodies, in the sense that you can do a number of transactions with cash. The fact that this is technically not all possible in the present time is up to now, but I do think that a government should ensure that people can simply pay cash at the counter. This certainly applies to municipalities in the event of payment of a driving licence, passport or future wedding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u25	Municipalities have relatively much influence on that, but take supermarkets. That's one of those provisions. How's that going?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u26	The CDA is not in favour of creating a legal obligation to do so. We are particularly concerned about the role of example. We estimate that corporate social responsibility, which many entrepreneurs do, will continue to follow this example of continuing to pay in cash.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u27	Mr. Ronnes, you can't leave yet, because Mr. Öztürk also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u28	Let's say the entrepreneurs don't take their social responsibility. You have quite a supporter of the ageing population, let me put it this way. He's got a problem with that. Are you prepared, if you see in a year's time that the example given by the government is not taken up by the entrepreneurs, to propose legal measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u29	I wouldn't really like to answer questions like that. What matters to me is: what can you as a government itself influence when it comes to your own services? Let's start there. The question then arises as to how this is going to develop.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u30	That is an evasive answer, because we see a trend that many entrepreneurs cannot go back on. They've already changed their system. A lot of entrepreneurs only work with the ATM card. The moment you wait any longer to give an example and wait even longer for what's going to happen, I don't think we can reverse the trend anymore. Also in Limburg and Brabant I see a huge ageing in your constituency, which has a lot of trouble to pay with the debit card. My concern is: what do you do for them?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u31	This is precisely why we call for social responsibility and to see how you serve the citizens of the Netherlands in the best possible way. It is not in our line to impose an obligation at the moment to accept that cash. We are concerned that we should follow this example.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u32	The CDA has embraced the future and says: it is efficient and effective. The PvdA agrees with that, too, if people choose to do so. It also has real cost advantages. What does the CDA think of the costs that banks charge consumers to take into account? That was free in the past. Now it's getting up, when there are really substantial savings, of hundreds of millions. These ATMs are all turning yellow too, so they are also being saved. That's good, too. How does Mr Ronnes feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u33	It is good that you mention that point and ask me about it. For the future, it is still a question for me how we are able to keep cash payment flows in the scaffolding affordable in terms of cost. I would actually like to pass on this question to the Minister: how do we keep it, with the changing use of cash, less cash, with infrastructure costs remaining at an equal level payable to the smaller group of people who are still stuck with that cash? You understand that it is also a concern for me that people must continue to be able to pay for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u34	I think that's a very good question. I put it a little bit in response to the bankruptcy of that cash transporter. That has to do with that, of course. I also mention the ATMs that are being merged. I think that's a good solution. My question to Mr Ronnes was: if this is saved by online banking, how does it relate to the high bill presented to the consumer? If you have cash, you don't cost anything. Those costs are for the shopkeeper, who has to pay off the money and everything. If you keep a bank account, you're gonna have to pay more and more for it. Is that fair? Is that fair? Does Mr Ronnes consider that reasonable?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u35	Then you need to know what's hidden in those charges. I must say that it is not clear to me what is in it. It is a strange observation, however, that we have to make this observation that these costs are increasing. So it might be good to take a sharp look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u36	Mr. Sneller, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Dutch payment system is in full development. A growing number of people prefer pins. This also has many advantages for shopkeepers: safety, convenience and costs. The percentage of PIN payments has been referred to a number of times, so the rate of PIN payments has risen sharply. However, cash is of course also beneficial. It is anonymous, serves as a relapse option in the event of a malfunction and some groups of elderly people, visually restricted, low-literate; they have already been mentioned as "relays" are often dependent on cash. The Consumers' Association and others are right to draw attention to this. But at the moment things are actually going relatively well. In 96% of the counters, shops, restaurants, museums and so on, it is possible to pay with cash. 99.55%, almost everyone, has an ATM within 5 kilometers. In addition, interest groups, supervisors and the minister keep their finger on the pulse. When it comes to Marqt with a 'q', which says 'you can only pin here', I think that's just a question of how the market works with a 'k'. This is very different when it comes to the government. After all, you can only apply for a passport from the municipality and that must be accessible to everyone. In practice pin only is therefore more often pin please or pin preferred. At least, that is how I understood the answers to the parliamentary questions. None of the 21 municipalities mentioned would actually say: you will not get a passport if you do not have a debit card. I'd like to get a confirmation of that. However, there are also doubts about individual cases with a real "pin only" policy. We saw the issue of the pharmacies that were brought to our attention, but public transport can also be counted. How's the Minister handling this discussion? Does he see a role for the government/for himself there? Or is he also assuming the self-solving potential of the market? In short, developments are moving fast, but the point of no return where vulnerable people are excluded from payments, the minister has already written about them, is not in sight for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u38	Could Mr Sneller explain exactly how the market works when you only have supermarkets in the area where you can only pin?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u39	That is not the case at the moment. That is why there is no problem in practice. There are only a few supermarkets that have made that choice. If you look at the whole picture, 96% of the cases are not yet covered.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u40	That's what I'm establishing. But I also note that D66 actually says that if large supermarket groups would switch to a policy with only pin, that would be a problem. Marqt is usually only located in trendy downtown buildings, but imagine Albert Heijn, Lidl and Aldi taking over that policy altogether. Then I can imagine that at some point a point will be reached where people will no longer have an alternative, and so they will only be able to pin for their messages. In fact, I see that Mr Sneller would find that a problem too. I'd like to get a confirmation from him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u41	If all companies are going to pursue policies against their own interests, I think we have very different problems. I really think this is a like-dan question that might be there in the distant future. However, I do not see a real scenario in which all these supermarkets exclude a large part of their business from their shop.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u42	Very briefly, Mr. Alkaya. Actually, we're doing it in half.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u43	Very briefly. Of course, it will be a problem when it becomes more expensive for supermarkets to maintain such a supply than they do with it. Thus, if four out of ten payments are made in cash and that number continues to decline, it will at some point be more expensive for the supermarket to maintain such a provision. Then it is not against their own interests, then it could be more financially profitable. But I'd find that a problem anyway, because then you'd rule out a part of the people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u44	It is already a lot more expensive to maintain the provision to pay cash. Mr. Chairman. Moreover, the elderly of 2050 are not the same as the elderly of today. They will find electronic payments much more self-evident. How does the Minister think that what we currently consider important about cash, i.e. anonymity, reliability and other values that have already been mentioned, should also be maintained in that context? Or does he provide eternal life for cash? I asked Mr Van Rooijen earlier.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u45	I would like to come back to the issue of the municipalities, which Mr Sneller was just talking about. I have already pointed out that Minister Ollongren recently sent a letter to all the municipalities that, in her view, they are obliged to continue accepting cash. That's not so weird. But she says she's not gonna supervise it. If municipalities do not comply with this obligation, they will not impose fines. Then, of course, that letter is an empty box, as I said earlier. When municipalities say they hold on to pin only, they do. However, I agree with Mr Sneller that there are municipalities that will say in certain exceptional cases: well, you can bring money. It's got to be put away somewhere. But if a number of municipalities say "we hold on to pin only," then the cabinet, the minister, will not send on compliance by imposing any fines. Not that I'm that much for that, but they have to keep accepting cash. How do you feel about the Minister doing a little laissez faire, laissez passer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u46	I don't know if fines are the right tools to maintain this from the Empire. I think it is important that the municipalities continue to accept this, as I have just said, cash, if people have it as the only means of payment when they need a passport.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u47	The Minister believes that the municipalities are obliged to accept cash, but also says: I am not going to supervise it, they may deviate from that obligation. That's weird, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u48	I do not think they should deviate from that obligation. I have not yet heard one situation in which an individual citizen actually got into trouble: I was not allowed to pay in cash. If you have that case, we'll talk and you'll find me by your side to say that it should be mandatory.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u49	Mr. Van Rooijen, very briefly. Otherwise we are going to do all the interruptions in threes and then it will eventually be a long debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u50	I do not think that we should say by means of an individual alarm signal: then it can be done. We're clear about it. Municipalities just have to accept cash and not make an exception sometimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u51	Yes, but I am not in favour of including a possibility of fines in the law that should apply to a theoretical case that has never occurred before.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u52	Does the calf have to go down the well and D66 comes up with a solution or something? Do you really need something dramatic to happen? You guys want to do something before then? It's a D66 minister who doesn't act decisively. The question of 50PLUS is correct: are you prepared from D66 to adopt a decisive attitude towards the municipalities, so that they can maintain that everyone can pay cash?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u53	Mr Öztürk must not make it all so dramatic that there must be an insane disaster. We have not received one individual case in which someone got into trouble when applying for a passport. The National Ombudsman has also rightly pointed out that this must be maintained.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u54	Not everyone complains, not everyone complains in the media and not everyone complains to the minister or to D66, but there will be cases where citizens feel: wait a minute, you don't deal with my tax dollars. Does something really have to happen before D66 takes action? Or does D66 want to prevent our citizens from getting into trouble and now ask the Minister: are you prepared to act decisively towards the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u55	I'm not prepared to introduce that penalty. Furthermore, I think it is very good to appeal to municipalities. For the time being, it also seems to be fully operational and Mr Öztürk sees bears on the road that are not there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u56	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was almost done. But since we are discussing cash today, I had two more questions about cash at the two ends of the spectrum. The first concerns the 500 euro notes; Mr Nijboer also referred to them. As far as I understand it, they've stopped dealing with it at the ECB for two weeks, but they're still legal tender and they're just still in rotation. How does the Minister see this fact that they are actually saying: it is bad that they are there and that is why we are not going to make them anymore, but they are still rotating, whether in Latin America or in Europe? On the other side of the spectrum there are the one- and two-euro cents, which are relatively expensive to make, more expensive than the nominal value when it comes to the one-eurocent. I understand that in practice they are hardly used in the Netherlands, whereas in Belgium they have been abolished. Is there a difference or is that the summary of the same phenomenon? What could we do to ensure that they are abolished in Europe and what would be the financial gain for the Netherlands? Mr President, I will conclude. Payments must remain accessible to all groups. For the time being, cash plays a crucial role in this and we need to deal wisely with the problems caused by decreasing use. Above all, let us prepare ourselves for longer-term developments so that we can maintain these values.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u58	Thank you. I call Mr Snels van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u59	Thank you, Mr President. It is good that we are starting this new year with a debate in which the political positions, despite the fact that colleagues are all very excited, are not so far apart, but well. Mr. Chairman. Society is making less and less use of cash and this is basically a good thing. Pinning is relatively fast, safe, simple and socially efficient. Moreover, we know that criminal money is laundered relatively often through cash and tax fraud, for example VAT fraud, is a lot easier with cash payments than with cash payments. I therefore support the objective of continuing to promote, without using coercion, that we are going to pay more and more pins and electronically, but we must not lose sight of the position of vulnerable groups. I think we all agree on that. The use of cash is important for vulnerable groups of elderly people, visually impaired persons and other groups of people, and these should not be left behind or excluded from payments, as this would ultimately be at the expense of their social participation. Therefore, it is important that payment with cash remains possible. Moreover, it is important that Mr Van Dijck pointed out this in an interrupting debate, just as Mr Sneller pointed out that it remains possible to pay anonymously for privacy reasons. Fortunately, the acceptance of cash by counter settings is 96% high. That percentage is interesting, but the question is which aspects are really important to the Minister. Are there going to be concerns if that percentage falls and when do those concerns come, how far can the percentage fall? Or are other aspects important? One aspect that is important in any case is that you should always be able to pay in cash with municipalities. The question is what this means for adjacent institutions such as pharmacies and hospitals. I know we'll soon be getting information from the Secretary of State, especially those municipalities. When does the Chamber get that information? I think it is important for the further debate. I constantly wonder how big the problem is with vulnerable groups. Is the Minister getting any signals about the scale of the problem in vulnerable groups? How many people are we talking about? How many people, in what cases and at what agencies could that be? Can these people go somewhere if they have complaints? If a municipality does not accept cash payments, can these people go anywhere with their complaints? Maybe that's a reason to have the conversation and to figure out how big the problem really is. In addition to maintaining cash, are there other ways in which we can help vulnerable groups, for example by helping them learn how to deal with new technologies? Or are there other ways in which the government promotes the accessibility and accessibility of digital or modern payment services to vulnerable groups? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I have the opposite question, and that is whether we actually have a picture of how many shops there are where you can only pay in cash. Does the Minister agree with GroenLinks that you should be able to pin anywhere, so should you be able to pay without cash? What is the percentage of counter settings that do not accept pins? Has there ever been research into the factors why some stores do not accept pins? Is that just because of the cost? Isn't that tax evasion, black money? Would the Minister also take these aspects into another monitor?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u60	I don't always think it's practical, but now you're chasing my hairdresser on the closet. He's been in the business for almost 50 years and won't pay to those banks, those transaction costs. He just doesn't want to. He wants to do his own bookkeeping. Do you really want all shops to be obliged, even if they are small entrepreneurs, to make pins possible, with all the costs? I think that's a very special move.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u61	I didn't mention an obligation at all. Asking the question was interesting to me, because I don't even think we know how many shops still don't use an ATM and why that is. Just the questioning, and knowing why that is actually so, is interesting to me. I don't know if you're gonna get VAT receipts and that hairdresser where you pay in cash. I think that's an important question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u62	I am always in favour of research questions and I find this very interesting. But for a moment I thought Mr Snels wanted to force the other way. For a moment, I thought he kept that reasoning, but it turns out he didn't. I'm always in favour of more insight into how people make their thoughts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u63	No, I am not in favour of mandatory measures, but I am also in favour of promoting them in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u64	Thank you. I call Mr Alkaya of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Whether we shop, pay bills or pay our friends back for dinner, we do this digitally more and more often. Only four out of ten payments are made today with cash. And I honestly don't think this trend can be reversed. But that does not mean that politicians should sit back and not look where society ends up. After all, we are there ourselves and have an influence on it. In the Scandinavian countries you can see that politics intervenes. There, the use of cash has already been further reduced. You can see, for example, that there is a law in Denmark that obliges shops to accept cash. And in Sweden, Parliament is working on legislation to maintain ATMs. In my view, these are also the two key points of today's debate. On the one hand, how easy will it be to get cash? On the other hand, can we continue to use cash everywhere? Let me start with the latter. In a letter from the minister it can be read that acceptance of cash in the Netherlands, not on the internet, i.e. at counter settings, is 96% high. That sounds nice, but in fact I do not think that thinking in percentages is appropriate on this subject. Should we not think any more in terms of 'provisions that should always be accessible to everyone'? This could mean that, for example, in supermarkets, at local counters, at parking machines and in public transport, these are things that have already been mentioned in today's debate, which must always be paid with cash. That is no longer the case. A director of De Nederlandsche Bank recently said in a regional newspaper about this: "There comes a time when we say: whoa, look out. If a supermarket group or a large chain would no longer accept cash, we would find that a big problem." Does the Minister share this concern of De Nederlandsche Bank? And if so, how is he going to ensure that this kind of business continues to accept cash? And then access to cash. The SP believes that this is a facility that should remain accessible to people, via a bank branch or an ATM. That is why it is worrying that the number of bank branches has fallen dramatically recently. Of the three bank branches that were there 15 years ago, there is only one left today. And the number of ATMs is also falling, while banks continue to make billions of profits. The SP has had to take action in many places to keep the ATM nearby. And that wasn't only needed in the most remote areas, but in medium-sized municipalities such as Heerlen, Weert and Bergen op Zoom. That is where we had to take action. How will the Minister ensure, for example, that older people and people with disabilities who do not live in the largest cities continue to have access to cash in the neighbourhood? Does he also find it worrying that ATMs disappear from neighborhoods? And does he agree with me that 5 kilometers to the nearest ATM is still quite far away for many people, especially when you find out, after 5 kilometers, that the vending machine is empty because so many people depend on one vending machine? What does the Minister think of the idea of introducing a new standard in addition to this standard, namely that within walking distance of certain groups of people, for example those living in a nursing home or a senior complex, so let's say within 1 kilometer of these facilities, there should also be an ATM? How does he feel about the idea that we're monitoring that, too? Finally, I would like to say that I am pleased with the debate so far, and also with the attitude of the cabinet that cash remains important from a macro-economic point of view in a digitising Netherlands. There was a letter to read about that line-up. In the last year, digital payments, which are wholly owned by commercial companies, have fallen out several times, either by straw rings or by ddos attacks. In order not to become completely dependent on commercial banks, we simply need a public alternative to keep the Netherlands running. You do not want certain facilities, such as applying for passports, such as the use of public transport or the like, to stop because commercial banks cannot continue to fulfil their tasks. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u66	Thank you. I call Mr Van der Linde of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u67	Mr. Chairman. Send a tap to pay for beer and pizzas, check your balance when you're in line in front of the cash register or pay your bills with a QR code and that's almost old-fashioned. What a country! Everything is safe, cheap, fast and especially easy for everyone. Digitisation is a great achievement, something we should be proud of. That's all true, but with all these exciting developments, I still want to be able to pay my window washer in cash. I want to be able to give something to that nice collector at the door. I want to be able to buy my wife a bunch of flowers without seeing on her phone that I'm coming home with flowers. And my 16-year-old son, for example, is very fond of his privacy and certainly doesn't want me to see his cafe bill. Of course, there are people who don't want QR codes at all, in ticks, in iDEAL payments and who just want to pay in cash. If our pin traffic fails on a busy Saturday, I'm glad I have some cash left in my wallet. Mr. Chairman. All good reasons to keep cash in store. This also means that we must not neglect the infrastructure involved. It is good that banks should coordinate where ATMs disappear and where new ones need to come. If you live outside the city, you can see how clumsy it is when that one ATM in your village disappears. We're talking about one ATM every five kilometers, but I don't know if I think that's such a sensible choice. If you're dependent on a rollator, five kilometers is a goddamn long walk. Customization is much more important to me. In a village with only commuters you might be able to remove ATMs. In a neighborhood with three senior apartments, you provide some extra service. That doesn't just have to be an old-fashioned ATM. Banks are also experimenting with delivering money to their homes. Extra pins in a store is also a solution. Slowly you also see non-bank ATMs appear. Mr. Chairman. If I look at this minister's policy and also at the policy of BZK, we have actually managed well. These ATMs are distributed in good consultation. We're working on alternatives. We don't pin banks on old technology and municipalities also work on digital environments, but at the same time tackle cash. So you might be wondering what kind of problem we're solving here. I do have a few very practical questions. First of all... Here they come, Minister! SecurCash, the largest transporter of cash, has gone partially bankrupt in recent weeks. The supply of ATMs is guaranteed for a while, I understand. But I am wondering: do we run the risk of continuity here? Is that something we need to worry about, or can we leave it with the banks? Second. We are getting more and more non-bank ATMs from commercial institutions in the Netherlands. That number is very small; for the time being you can see that especially at events. That is, of course, because we have done quite well in the Netherlands. At the same time, there are some barriers to entry if commercial parties want to enter that market. To begin with, of course, you have to push two tons of cash into one of these machines each time. You gotta get that from somewhere. So working capital alone costs such an ATM quickly €10,000 a year. But what is even more difficult is that the banks do not give any openness about the prices between them, so they withdraw the money from the vending machine. And why, I ask the Minister, are these tariffs not just public in the context of proper market functioning? Thirdly, that is perhaps the most important question. Very often we experience a malfunction in the payment system. That's annoying enough. But let's say we're hacked by a strange power, that payments are completely shut down. What scenarios are ready for a large-scale outage? Do we have a system to pay salaries quickly in cash and to supply extra stores with money? Mr President, I can see that I am ten seconds past my time, so I'm quitting quickly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u68	Mr Nijboer has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u69	I think Mr Van der Linde is making a good point with these competitive ATMs, especially in tourist cities. They charge a lot of money for the pins. People don't notice that. But his plea was actually "make more of it," while I would say "dam that in."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u70	I think you should put ATMs where you need them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u71	They're in those tourist shops in Amsterdam. They're some kind of hidden accounts from commercial parties. It's really some kind of criminal act. There are some of them closed too. As far as I am concerned, therefore, we must limit this as much as possible. Mr Van der Mr Linde's plea was that you should make accession easier and he said that banks are keeping them away, but we shouldn't have those people here asking for a lot of money to take up money when tourists aren't aware of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u72	No, if they don't notice, that's not supposed to happen, of course. If it appears neatly "you pay two quarters or a euro now," then it is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u73	Mr Van der Linde pointed out the 5 kilometers. He said after that: but that's not really such a problem, so what are we talking about today? But if we have the need for cash and we see that the opportunities for vulnerable groups are getting smaller, doesn't he agree with many in the Chamber and with 50PLUS that this is a problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u74	I think it is extremely important that people keep access to cash. At the same time, we see that this need is becoming less. That means ATMs will disappear. That's inevitable. This is happening in good consultation at the moment. I don't see a lot of bottlenecks there. And of course, you prefer to have an ATM on every corner of the street, but we don't have that luxury. My image of this, but I'm happy to give it for better facts... is that we're doing that nicely at the moment. With the Social Dialogue Payment traffic is really well discussed how we put it together. About five kilometers: I don't think that's such a logical measure. Anyway, you want something, of course. So it's pretty neat, isn't it? That is why my question to you was: what are we going to do now? We're not solving a problem right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u75	I've already made that clear. We are talking today in particular about the monopoly of state services, such as driving licences, passports and so on. However, I have also indicated, with many colleagues so far, that vulnerable groups may gradually get into difficulties as the possibilities for cash from vending machines, as well as cash, are reduced. I was just pointing that out. I think that is a social issue. You may not be able to rephrase it or a problem, but I do think it is a social issue that politics should have an answer to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u76	I agree with you very much, but it's two things. One: it's just in people who need this. That's gonna be less and less. Two: there is a social interest in keeping cash in circulation in case the rest fails. Those are two things you need to see apart for a moment. As far as individual people are concerned, I do not have any indication at the moment that they are in serious trouble. If that's true, then we have to deal with it. This is done in fairly good consultation. But I agree with you: at the moment when there are really major bottlenecks in society, we should be standing here again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u77	You had come to the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u78	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u79	I now give the floor to Mr Van Dijck of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u80	Thank you, Mr President. For the PVV it's very simple. As long as cash is legal tender, everyone must be able to pay with it, anywhere and always. The question is: can the Minister guarantee this? Or is he gonna sit around and wait for the last cash payment to take place? 'Cause that looks like it. He waits and he leaves it to the market. And before you know it, we live in a cashless society. That is not only dangerous, but it also excludes groups from economic activity, purely because they cannot or do not want to pay with their bank card. It is also dangerous because if the digital payment system fails, you will no longer have a payment method to fall back on. It paralyzes the economy. The role of public authorities should therefore be to ensure that legal tender is accepted. The law now obliges no one, and currency is after all money. The PVV therefore considers that no additional costs should be charged to the customer when choosing a particular means of payment. Apparently, it's okay now. There is also a role for the government. Cash is a legal means of payment and must remain so. For example, in Sweden or Norway, where 90% of payments are pinned, the vast majority of the population, 78%, still wants cash as legal tender. So it's important. It is fine that there is pinning and it is fine that pins are stimulated, but as long as cash is a legal means of payment, one must be able to pay with it and so it must not disappear. Is the Minister going to take care of this? Mr. Chairman. Let's talk about SecurCash. That's bankrupt, as we all know. As a result, more than 1,000 companies are without a cash transporter, and no money can be collected or collected there. But there is still 40 billion in cash in circulation. This can lead to unsafe situations. Now I read in the newspaper that DNB has set up a special emergency fund to allow money cars to drive. This message is correct, so I ask the Minister. And can the Minister tell us what kind of emergency fund we're dealing with here? How much money is in that emergency fund and how long will it last? And are there enough players on the market to cope with the disappearance of SecurCash? In other words, what does the future of money transport in the Netherlands look like? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u81	There is another question from Mr Alkaya.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u82	I haven't heard from the PVV about the disappearance of ATMs and bank branches. They've only talked about the ability to pay in cash, not how people should get cash. The norm is that it should be within five kilometers. Does the PVV share my view that 5 kilometres for the elderly and people with disabilities is far too far away?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u83	We also think that everyone should be able to access the ATM. I believe that this is indeed a five-mile radius. We'd rather have seen it closer. I also see that supermarkets and the Primeras of this world often take over that role, that there are ATMs there. Of course, money must remain accessible to everyone via the ATM.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u84	The problem with that kind of vending machines is, of course, that there are closing times. They can be closed on Sundays, for example. I think we can be in favour of giving people Sunday rest. And those vending machines will be counted for those five kilometers. Does the PVV agree that as many ATMs as possible should be maintained in neighborhoods, close to people?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u85	I totally agree with that, but I believe that the 5 kilometers that apply now, including Sunday rest, is reasonable in itself. If that turns out to be 2 or 1 kilometer, then we will hear it and we are in favour of it in principle. But right now I don't really see problems with those ATMs, but more when not accepting cash by the Marqt with a q. I think Albert Heijn will stop accepting cash money sooner than we can suspect. We'll have to get ahead of that. That is why we have this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u86	Mr Bruins of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u87	Mr President, I have already given the Minister and colleagues a hand, but can I also wish you and the staff a blessed New Year? Mr. Chairman. Ease serves man, and what is easier than contactless payment, pins or a tap? It is perfectly logical and understandable, but does that mean that society should just say goodbye to cash? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Of course, the less cash, the less black economy and the more security. Moreover, cash payments for entrepreneurs are now much more expensive than contactless debit payments. In this sense, it is good news that the share of cash transactions in the Netherlands is now less than 40% of the total. But still 2.7 billion times a year are paid in cash in the Netherlands. That's an average of 86 times a second. Average. Moreover, there are many objections to a cashless society. Without cash, there is more debt, especially among young people, about which I will say more. Think also of the 2.5 million low-literate people in our country, of the visually impaired and of the elderly. Think of those who, for example, work with a tight budget per week. For them, paying cash is a must. And finally, don't forget the vulnerabilities of the cashless society: hackers, malfunctions, privacy, damaged debit cards and so on. The Netherlands Bank rightly warns against a cashless society and Scandinavian conditions. Mr Van Dijck mentioned it: the share of cash payments in Norway and Sweden is now barely more than 10%. What is the border for this Minister? Besides, and then I come to the Minister's letter, cash is a legal means of payment. According to the Minister, how far does the government's responsibility extend to ensure that citizens can also pay with cash anywhere? What is the responsibility of the government in this regard? Can the Minister reflect on that? I'll read about that in his letter. It states, for example, that the provision level for ATMs should return to at least the level of 2016. The Minister of BZK states that municipalities should not offer pin only, but have municipalities already returned to their cashless steps as a result of this cabinet's efforts? And if not, what does the cabinet have in store for these municipalities? for ensuring the general use of cash as legal tender? In his letter, the Minister hardly touches on the vulnerable groups that I have just reviewed. The fraction of the Christian Union had really expected more in that regard. In his term, can the Minister give further consideration to the importance of retaining cash for these vulnerable groups and the necessary efforts to do so? Finally, Mr President. The theme of youth and debt was completely lacking in the documents. Previous research by the Nibud showed that one in five young people who are actually just taking their first financial steps in life have to do with debts of more than €2,500. What struck me in that study was the notion that a large number of young people don't know how much money they spend because of the pins. We all know that this is how it works: walk into the supermarket with a €20 bill and you really don't spend more than that €20, while with a debit card it would have been just a few euros more, which is soon 10% to 20% more. Especially now that more and more young people only pay electronically and are not always well accompanied by parents, it is perhaps more important than ever to put the position: learning how to handle money in a healthy way starts in cash. Does the Minister want to reflect on this statement and therefore on the importance of financial wisdom among young people and the role of educators in it? Does that result in consequences for government policy? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u88	Thank you. Mr Stoffer has the floor, of the SGP. Excuse me. Mr Nijboer has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u89	I like the plea. The spokesperson of the Christian Union is really in a tradition here. Mrs Schouten has always drawn a great deal of attention to this, and there is also a great deal of attention to this issue in the coalition agreement. As far as I am concerned, therefore, compliments are in order. I would ask Mr Bruins to answer his own question. What are the consequences of this? I think the Minister agrees with him that this is important. The PvdA agrees, too. What policy consequences would you draw from that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u90	I talked about financial wisdom among young people and the role of educators and the role of the government in this. In any case, this means that cash must remain available and visible in society. I also think it is important to ensure that young people learn to deal with coins and notes at an early stage, and that all this remains. Preferably let parents just hand over pocket money to their children; then they can see and feel it. For example, from a government policy you can think of the curriculum in schools, in the sense that money is still present in maths and that we don't think: well, everyone pint; so you don't have to be able to calculate anymore. Such basic skills must be maintained, for example in the curriculum in schools. That's just an example.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u91	Thank you, Mr. Bruins. I call Mr Stoffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u92	Mr. Chairman. The week before Christmas we pinned 104 million times, which killed the old record. Cash most Dutch people only have in their wallets in other currencies, namely when they travel a long way. Collectebuses are increasingly equipped with a pin, because many people at the door indicate that they do not have cash in the house. These are just a few illustrations of the continuing digitisation of our payments. You'd think: nothing wrong with this development, right? But I'll tell you honestly, I always have some of these notes in my pocket, because you never know. This applies not only to me; my colleagues in the SGP share the concerns of De Nederlandsche Bank. I would just like to mention a few concerns; some have already been identified. For example, the VVD indicated that our payments can be vulnerable when they are being hacked. We share that. In case of a pin failure last year we also noticed that at some point you don't start anything at all. In December, people at a gas station left an ID or even their wedding ring which you must of course have as a deposit for the unpaid tanking. That's why I always carry a little, because I don't want to lose that wedding ring. But there is, as has already been pointed out by several, also a very large group that is simply not experiencing the digitalisation. They just want to pay by acceptancegiro, withdraw money, deposit money and so on. In my village on the Veluwe, I know a RegionBank, which can do so. All the older people just come in there and put their money in the bank, because then they can still get cash, just at the front desk. There really is a large group of people who just want to, and why shouldn't they? Low-literate and partially sighted can also experience problems with pins. Cash also provides more insight into finance, for example for people in debt restructuring, as has already been indicated by others. Pins are increasingly encouraged and pay with cash is discouraged. Just as Mr Van Rooijen and others have already indicated, the SGP also finds it worrying that there are municipalities where you can't pay cash for your passport or your driver's license. The Minister has indicated that every citizen should have the right to pay with cash, but as we have heard before, municipalities are not forced to do so. The law wouldn't even allow you to check or pass fines. Where can our citizens now go with their complaints, their justified complaints, if a municipality simply doesn't want to take cash? I'd like an answer to that question. I would also like to ask whether we can really see whether legal measures are needed and can be implemented, because the government really has an exemplary role to play on this dossier. Personally, I didn't notice them, but as of January 1st we have the yellow ATMs of Geldservice Nederland, a collaboration of our three major banks. Very positive is the promise to have that ATM within a distance of 5 kilometres; this promise has been referred to several times and we welcome it. But we have just heard from others that this can be quite a challenge. Especially in sparsely populated areas, it's just the question of how far to travel and whether you can get there at all if you don't have a car. So my question is also whether this standard, which we welcome in itself, can be enforced and guaranteed. Or are we simply dependent on market players and on whether or not they are benevolent? Finally, Mr President, I would like to raise a point about developments in public transport. Connexxion's running a campaign called "cash out of the bus." The CFP cannot even be paid in cash anymore. So our question is whether this Minister would like to pass on to his fellow Minister Van Nieuwenhuizen the request to encourage transport companies to continue accepting cash payments in public transport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u93	Thank you. Finally, Mr Öztürk of Denk has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u94	Mr. Chairman. Money. Para. Floes. Dokuku. Pieniadze. We're talking cash today, cash. 40% of payments are still in cash. This has fallen from 60% to 40% in four years. We live in the time of the pin generation, the time of iDEAL orders, the time of "you can only pin in this store." Cash disappears, and with its disappearance freedom also disappears. It can't be that people can't participate in society because they can't pay more cash? If you've lost your ATM card, you can't participate. If you can only pay cash, you can't shop. If you can't handle the technique, you're not gonna play. People become slaves to electronic and digital payment systems. But systems are there to serve man, not the other way around? Mr. Chairman. My big concern is: where does this end and where does this go? A lot of groups in our society are struggling with the disappearance of cash. I call our elders. I call illiterates. I call people with visual impairment. I call people who don't have a debit card. I'm naming people who would like to remain anonymous. These groups of Dutch remain dependent on the use of cash. Mr. Chairman. This is why De Nederlandsche Bank called the bell last year, also because non-cash, i.e. digital, makes our society vulnerable, vulnerable to hackers, vulnerable to malfunctions and vulnerable to problems with electronic payment systems. I ask the Minister whether he shares these concerns and what he will do with them. Mr. Chairman. DENK believes that the government should work to ensure that people continue to have sufficient opportunities to pay in cash. I therefore have the following question to the Minister. According to DENK, the government should set a good example. Public administrations should always be able to pay in cash. A passport or driving licence can only pay with the debit card ensures that groups are excluded. How does the Minister guarantee that people in the government can always pay cash? I am considering a motion on this point. Mr. Chairman. In his letter, the Minister states that he wants to leave the availability of cash to the market and that he wants to keep his finger on the wrist. I ask the Minister whether this is not a weak attitude: leave everything to the market and monitor a bit, while at the moment many older people in our country have to look for a shop where they can pay cash. Will the Minister draw up an approach plan for the availability of cash payments for vulnerable groups? On this point, too, I am considering a motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u95	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I want to suspend for 45 minutes. The Minister does not need that much for the preparation of his answer, but then we immediately have a dinner break and then we can enter the evening program. So I'm suspending until 6:45.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u96	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u97	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you also to all Members for the many questions on this important subject. Let me begin by briefly saying how I divided it. I start with cash and pins, then I come to the municipalities, then to legal tender, then to SecurCash and euro coins and notes and then some other. Maybe it's good to make a few introductory remarks, though I know you're on hot coal. Cash is a very important social function as a means of payment in society, and that is why access to cash must also be in order. I have emphasized this in detail, and I would like to stress this once again here. Certain vulnerable groups of consumers are also dependent on cash payments. Many of your members, including those who returned after the break, have referred to this. They must not be excluded in our society. I would like to highlight that the figures really, really, really show a positive picture. The acceptance of cash by counter institutions are places where a counter can be paid for, for example in shops or in catering establishments: 96% in 2017. Research by De Nederlandsche Bank shows that acceptance will continue to remain high in the coming years, I say towards those who are concerned. Many speakers have already recalled that the accessibility of ATMs is not only important, but in 2018 more than 99.5% of all Dutch people had a vending machine in a radius of 5 kilometers. My last introductory remark is that it is important to note that we have very effective and efficient payment traffic in the Netherlands. I also sincerely believe that we have done very well when it comes to the social involvement of all the relevant parties, precisely in the social consultation on payment transactions. It's so many parties that I'm not really going to list them all, so it's against the danger that I'm failing one or two of them, it's good to remember that besides the Consumers' Association, besides the Consumers' Association, the Eye Association, the Dutch Association for Older People, the Network of Organizations of Older Migrants, the Netherlands Association of Pensioners, the largest elderly organisation KBO-PCOB, undoubtedly known to Mr Van Rooijen, the Collaborative Branch Organisations Philanthropy and Everyone(in), the network for people with a disability or chronic illness, are all represented in it. I'm not gonna say the words "what a cool country," but we got this right. I think it's good to mark that. Mr Van der Linde referred to this. So we must continue to do so, but that does not affect the great importance of the subject. Mr Alkaya asked if I share the position of DNB on cash. Absolutely. Of course, I have also had a lot of contact with De Nederlandsche Bank. Together with De Nederlandse Bank and the MOB, I see no reason to intervene at the moment, but to monitor. Mr Ronnes, Mr Snels and Mr Bruins asked if there was some sort of minimum level of cash. I will not repeat these figures every time, but I will mention that 96% and the investigation by De Nederlandsche Bank which shows that it remains constant high. It's not 100%. We all know an example of a supermarket or another company where you can really only pin, but it remains high. Mr Ronnes then asked if I can guarantee that if it turns out that it does change. First of all, the Netherlands Bank and these civil society organisations will have to signal this and come up with a solution. I am extremely happy that they are working together so well and constructively and not just looking at the here and now, but looking forward. Many of the subjects we address here have also been addressed recently. It was simply discussed what is a real distance from the ATM, just for the people who represent those groups. What is reasonable about wanting to participate in, for example, the request and the use of the bus or train? Those are all subjects that pass through there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u98	Mr Ronnes has a question about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u99	Yes, Mr President, this comment. I asked this question in particular in relation to the following. Suppose payment systems fail because of cybercrime, because of failing systems. So what is the minimum level of cash flows needed to make the company function anyway? If that infrastructure fails tomorrow, will that backup be there? Is it necessary and can it still go crazy?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u100	It's a fair question. I believe that this was also the question put by Mr Nijboer and Mr Van der Linde in a slightly different way, so I shall come back to that in a moment. Mr Ronnes also asked if anyone could participate if there was no more cash. Well, I liked that in the debate between Mr Sneller and Mr Van Rooijen: 'always' is a long period. It is important that De Nederlandsche Bank says that the provisions that are there remain unchanged and unabated high in the coming years. I imagine that I will keep the Chamber informed of this every year. It is quite theoretical, but if we saw the development that the organizations that are united in the MOB would not experience it as a problem but the Chamber would, then that would be a reason for a debate. But frankly the experience is that they are so proactive that they have addressed these problems with each other in the good Dutch tradition. Can I dwell on vulnerable groups? Absolutely. That's very important. But it is not for nothing, of course, and that is why I have just referred to them as 'vulnerable groups', people with, for example, visual or physical disabilities, or potentially vulnerable because of age, are very strongly represented, and have also been involved in the good system that we currently have.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u101	Mr. Chairman. The Minister just spoke of monitoring and no regulation. I don't think that's the issue right now. But with me, many speakers have referred to Scandinavia, Sweden and Denmark, where digitally much more has been introduced. And the Minister said that this Chamber might find this at some point, even if civil society does not find it. So there may come a time when you, or your successor, say: now it goes so far that we have to put a stop to regulation. You're not ruling that out, just for the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u102	I would also find it unwise to rule out this situation, which is perhaps theoretical, in advance. In general, the proverb "predicting is complicated, especially when it comes to the future"; Mr Van Rooijen knows it. So this could happen. But once again: there is a collection of organisations that are very keen on the pulse, who have managed very well to do what is balanced, reasonable and sensible for all these different groups of Dutch. And as soon as that would be necessary, they will certainly come back to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u103	Have you considered why Sweden and Denmark have already come up with legislation? I ask that question because De Nederlandsche Bank has said that, in view of the increasing digitization and pinning, it hopes that there will be limits to that. But De Nederlandsche Bank also says: if that is not possible in a polder way, then it must become regulation. That's what I'm hooking on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u104	Yes, and of course I agree with De Nederlandsche Bank. However, I would like to prevent us now from talking about a 'as-dan' situation, which we do not know is coming, and if so, at what point in the future, and also assuming that this gremium, which has worked so well, could not come to a solution. Then we're three bridges away. But in itself I agree with De Nederlandsche Bank that we should consider regulation if there is a problem that we cannot solve in any other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u105	But don't you read in the documents 'I'm worried about that already?'
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u106	No. I believe that De Nederlandsche Bank has indicated with me that the acceptance of cash, for example, will remain high in the coming years. What De Nederlandsche Bank has written on the long-term trends I take very seriously. It is true that we are semi-leader in Europe. You could say that we are the frontrunner, but in the three Scandinavian countries the percentages are still significantly lower than in ours. But they are also countries with a very different geography. That certainly applies to Sweden and Norway. They have potentially quite different practical problems when paying with cash. So I find this one-on-one combination a little complicated, but I think Mr Van Rooijen can agree with this appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u107	The Minister has already stressed that the platform, the gremium, is in principle working well and that the organisations that are in it are talking about all kinds of things that are important about contact money, whether it is about accessibility or about vulnerable groups. But is there also a question of how far our standards and to what extent the indicators we are currently measuring are adequate? Because I'm getting signals that 5 kilometers is too far for some groups. In addition, with one vending machine that has to operate different neighborhoods in a central location, you do meet the standard, but then that vending machine can be empty all the time. Shouldn't we also look at the number of vending machines per population, or see if there are enough vending machines in the vicinity of vulnerable groups? So we're measuring the right thing?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u108	What I have to be careful with is now pretending to know better than all those parties sitting at the table. They have come together on many of these subjects, but certainly on the question of what is a reasonable measure of distance to an ATM. My image from some distance is that they came out harmoniously. They certainly did not roll across the street because that limit would have been too sharp or too broad. 99.5%, again, 99.5% of the Dutch live in a radius of 5 kilometers from an ATM. That's incredibly high. Now we're physically a small country. That makes it easy in this case, but I think we have to note that we have made a very reasonable deal with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u109	Of course it's just nice that we score such a high percentage, but when all those vending machines are empty, we score that percentage too. Hence my question as to whether, in addition to this standard, we should continue to monitor other issues. If the Minister says that this is also discussed in the consultation and that they all keep their finger on the wrist, I am in principle reassured. But if we're just talking about the standard that there should be a vending machine within five kilometers, I don't know if we're measuring the right thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u110	It is a fair question, but once again, those organizations themselves would raise their finger if the vending machines were there, but the monkey would come out of the sleeve that is actually 40% empty. I fully agree with that. I have no signs that this criterion is inadequate or leads to incorruptible situations. Otherwise, I would certainly be aware of it. But it is right that Mr Alkaya should ask for it. Mr. Chairman. That also answers Mr Bruins' questions about vulnerable children. Mr Ronnes asked how we should pay our children allowance and how we should make children realize the value of cash. You can do that through pocket money. In any case, I try to make a contribution to this myself by supporting the Week of Money and Wiser in money matters and by giving a guest lesson from time to time. Mr Ronnes is absolutely right that it is easier to understand, especially for children, if you have cash then if you have a pass that you put on a vending machine. That is something we support through Wijzer in money matters, which I can do a little bit about, but of course also about parents and teachers. Mr Nijboer, Mr Ronnes and Mr Van der Linde have rightly asked whether the system is safe. It is perhaps good to start by saying that in general electronic payments are faster, more efficient and ultimately safer than cash payments. Let me say a few words about the link that this has with, for example, passenger transport in the Netherlands and how that has affected the debate. Mr Nijboer and others are right that cash is an important and actually the only relapse option that you should therefore continue to have when you get into trouble with your electronic money. So we just need to get that sorted out very well. In addition, it is good to note that the capacity of all ATMs is sufficient to replace most regular ATMs temporarily. So in the relatively short term, we've arranged that. There is also a crisis structure that will enter into force in the event of major pin failures. If that is helpful, I can of course send more on paper to the Chamber, but this is what has been arranged. Mr Stoffer has asked me to discuss the acceptance of cash with the Minister for Infrastructure and Water Management. It is important to note that in local security and the prevention of violence there have been such important aspects that, in the discussion and thus in the discussion with all the organizations I mentioned earlier, everything has been chosen not to accept cash, including in order to protect the people working in this sector. On the one hand, that is something to be gloomy about, but on the other hand, it is the balance that all these parties have made with each other. I can only endorse that. It is also a good thing, as I say to reassure Mr Stoffer, that we are not getting any complaints about being unable to pay for the social dialogue. So it's not like we've secretly created a very big problem. We have already discussed Mr Alkaya's question on how to ensure that access is maintained for people with disabilities. The same applies to the standard and its justified comments. Mr Stoffer asked how to enforce the mileage standard. The nice thing is that, within the typical Dutch tradition, we have not so far come near the need to enforce anything, precisely because of the Social Consultation Payment traffic. In any case, I would prefer to continue to do so as long as it continues to work so well. Mr Nijboer has rightly and understandably asked how to look at the future development of the costs of the ATM transactions. He will recognize that banks themselves decide what costs they charge for their bank accounts. That's a couple of tens in the Netherlands. I would like to point out that this is really low in the international context. It's really low amounts if you compare it to most other countries. One thing has changed in relation to the past. Mr Nijboer is younger than me, but when we were young it took much longer for the money to be transferred. And that was also a earning model for a bank. There's no such thing anymore. What has replaced this is that costs are slightly higher, but relatively low compared to abroad. Then Mr Van der Linde asked about the inter-bank rates. They make their own deals about these rates. That is a commercial consideration, but I do understand that public access is good. I would like to propose to Mr Van der Linde to discuss again with De Nederlandsche Bank whether it is possible to get more information about this. I would like to say straight away that this is not something that is simply enforceable, also given the way in which the powers lie.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u111	You could, of course, argue that there is effective foreclosure here. Then it becomes more of a competitive thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u112	Yes. In view of the urgency which the President has urged me to do, I did not repeat the arguments I suspected behind Mr Van der Linde's question. But that should indeed be the reason to want to know. Mr. Chairman. Mr. Snels went to hang on the other side. He asked: should it not also be possible to pay without cash? It is true that there are advantages to pins over cash when it comes to speed, security and also costs. I'm about to say a little more about what "legal tender" means, but in the Netherlands both private parties are not obliged to accept cash and the barber of Mr. Nijboer and a shop where I used to have my keys copied, can choose not to accept debit transactions. And that's acceptable, too. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the next block: the municipalities. I have a few comments to make. The first question was from Mr Sneller and Mr Snels: is it true that in certain cases municipalities make an exception and do accept cash? That's right. Municipalities find different solutions. That could be accepting cash anyway. That could also be helping someone with a one-time permit. My colleague from BZK is talking to the municipalities about this. In general, just in the block "municipalities": she still comes with a letter to the Chamber, so I have to take a look here. Do I receive signals that there are problems for citizens in municipalities? I'm glad that's not so bad. A total of 10 complaints and signals have been received by the Ombudsman since 2017. We take that seriously. Of course, not everyone who might have a complaint goes to the Ombudsman, but they are not very large numbers either. We can agree on that, too. At the same time, however, we think it is very important that this should be possible for those who depend solely on cash or on a possibility other than pins. So the Minister comes up with a letter about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u113	Mr Van Rooijen, before I give you the floor, would you please try to do your interruption in two?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u114	I only have one, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u115	Oh, that's totally beautiful.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u116	The minister talked about a letter we're still getting. His letter of 7 December also states that the letter is still coming. I asked this afternoon whether we should not have the Secretary of State here, because it is, of course, very strange that this has been going on for six months and that we do not have the letter from the Minister of the Interior concerning the consultation on the use of cash. Can the Minister ask his colleague when the letter is coming?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u117	Yes, I will. I will make sure that the question is put after this debate. I can do that personally and the Council of Ministers' margin on Friday.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u118	Mrs Ollongren has also already written a letter to the municipalities, not to the Chamber, which states that municipalities must continue to accept cash, but that they will not, as municipalities, supervise or impose fines. That's what I called "an empty box" this afternoon. This has been discussed not only by me but also by other groups. Will the Minister take that signal?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u119	I am going to puzzle about the exact wording that I am going to convey in this sense by Mr Van Rooijen. I would like to add one thing. I fully understand the inspiration behind the question. I believe that the letter from Mr Ollongren, Minister for Foreign Affairs, has made it clear that the cabinet sees this problem and also that we need to find a solution for those who potentially come between the doors there, point. But it's not like, when it comes to what we're going to do if this doesn't happen, we have a problem if we don't wave the whip right away. I would not like to take up the idea that municipalities are actually okay with their own citizens getting into trouble. That is not the case. So I would like to say yes to the request to encourage colleagues to speed up. But I think the link, the idea that there should already be a big chunk, when we don't even know what municipalities still plan to do, is very short. Mr. Chairman. Mr Öztürk asked about pin only versus cash. So that lies with BZK's colleagues, but I share Mr Öztürk's view that those who are not able to pay on their own with a debit card should be able to take a passport or other essential documents from a municipality, for example, and that a solution really needs to be found. So I'd like to agree with that. Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to the legal tender block. That is precisely why Mr Snels' question was interesting. Of course, it raises the question of what legal tender is. For the record: legal tender is a means by which you can pay, but that does not mean that the creditor, the receiving party, the retailer, has to accept all means of payment automatically. That is the situation we have today. That is what we see in the parties that only accept cash, such as the barber that was referred to or the key shop that I referred to. Of course, there are many more examples. There are a lot of shops and companies in the Netherlands that do not accept money in the form of a perfectly legitimate denomination, simply because they find it too big, given the security risk. Think of the well-known notes with a cross by €200 or whatever amount. So "legal" means you pay legally with it, but that doesn't mean there's an obligation to accept it. I say this in the direction of three or four speakers who asked for it, including Mr Van Dijck. I'm at the next block. A number of members asked about SecurCash and about euro coins and notes. Then it was very large and very small money. Let me start with the 500 euro notes from which Mr Nijboer pays his hairdresser. Seriously, I think it's a logical and fair question. The date is also close. As of 27 January 2019, the Dutch Bank will not issue 500 euro banknotes. The €500 banknote remains a legal tender and will also retain its value. So it can also be redeemed, but no new notes are issued anymore. Mr Sneller asked, all the way across the spectrum: what about those 1 and 2...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u120	I'm gonna come up with the big bills anyway. There was a problem, because they're used a lot by criminals. That's why they won't be made anymore. At the same time, we simply maintain the current amount and can simply be used by the same criminal circuits. Does the Minister think that's a problem? Or does he say: it's a problem we can't really do so much about anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u121	That's a good question, of course. In this question, I really should look at JenV's colleagues to see how big the problem is. I think Mr Nijboer and my predecessor have rightly been concerned about the question: what do you see with that money? The reference made by Mr Nijboer in the debate is, of course, quite striking: another continent, where people are not used to paying with euros. If one already uses a currency other than one's own local currency, it is typically the dollar. That is precisely where the 500 euro notes are used. I don't know about Mr. Sneller, but I've never had one in my wallet. What I would like to do is to go back to JenV's colleagues and see if you can do something with it and if so, whether it is effective. 'Cause that's the next question, of course. I have to think straight away of a conversation that we have also had, about the amount to which you allow cash transactions. Mr Nijboer and I have also had an exchange of views on this subject. On the one hand, you want to do something about crime, but it is also very easy to cut it and then destroy the good intentions of all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u122	I get that. Thank you for the commitment. I'd like to hear it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u123	I'll be on that subject tomorrow; we'll talk about money laundering. Well, that's what we're talking about. We actually want to get rid of those 500 euro notes. It's a good thing DNB doesn't print them anymore and other banks won't. You actually want a path along which it is eventually phased out. Is that and if so, when will we get rid of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u124	That's a very good question. Of course, it depends very much on the speed with which these bills are exchanged. In 2016, the ECB decided to end production and issuance. For the record, we'll phase out those bills. What I do not know, but what I would like to say to Mr Nijboer to ask him, is whether you have a situation like we have had in the past with money that we have phased out, namely that you say: until a certain moment it can be done and then it can only be done with a bank, for example. That comes to mind spontaneously. I would like to assure Mr Nijboer that we will check it. But I would like to point out that, if that has not already been settled, we should then discuss, in particular with JenV, whether it is appropriate to agree a path on this issue. 'Cause of course, there's gonna be capacity in it. We'll organize some things as well. But I say to Mr Nijboer that I am sure that that path is there and if not, whether it would make sense to get such a path there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u125	I thank the Minister for that. I think, above all, that the European Central Bank is the move, because it is ultimately about it. Of course, people with the buttocks have to be exposed. There are just a lot of suitcases with 500 euro notes circulating all over the world. If, in the long run, it turns out that there is no way to go along with this, I would like to do so, because they are not all in bona fide parties; they are simply drug criminals who have this. Then they have to report: here I have so much money, and that comes from there. Then we say, "You have to pay taxes." Or we ask: where did it come from? Or we're gonna sue. Well, that's attractive, of course. They don't like it, but I think it's a good thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u126	I fully agree with Mr Nijboer, so I will get to work on that. Mr Sneller asked about the one and two euro cents. This is a problem which is less relevant for the Netherlands, because since 2004 the rounding rule has been applied nationally in the Netherlands. I think I remember, but I am a little cautious that we were the first country in Europe to choose this rounding rule. In the Netherlands, you hardly see these coins anymore. Mr Sneller will recognize that from his own wallet, in so far as he pays in cash at all. At European level, too, the mood is falling, but there is no plan for a formal abolition. Frankly, a gradual phasing-out is more reason. Abolition in Europe - that was Mr Sneller's follow-up question, given the first thing I said, not even to effects or to cost savings in the Netherlands, although of course I would have liked to do so. Mr Van der Linde and Mr Van Dijck asked about SecurCash. Are there enough players now and is the transportation of cash at stake? No, that's not the case. The ATMs stay filled anyway. However, in the long term we need to look at the effect of the disappearance of SecurCash on the market. In the first place, I look at De Nederlandsche Bank. This has the attention of De Nederlandsche Bank. And to join this debate: one of the causes of bankruptcy seems to be the decline in the use of cash. Of course, De Nederlandsche Bank keeps a close eye on this. Mr. Chairman. Then I should like to ask some other questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u127	I asked if it was true that De Nederlandsche Bank kept SecurCash's transport vehicles in the air by financing them from an emergency fund. Is that right? What does that emergency fund mean? I am afraid that by taking cash we will end up in the spiral of self-fulfilling prophecy: it is no longer profitable to distribute cash and so there will be no more cash.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u128	I was a little too quick, because Mr Van Dijck is quite right: he did indeed ask a second question. But that is in line with the written question put by Mr Alkaya. I would like to return to that in writing. For the record, I can already say that it is not the case that DNB itself set up that emergency fund. But I will return to the finesses at the time of the written answer. Mr. Chairman. In the category of other questions Mr Van Rooijen asked about the day limit on the bank card. Do you want it down? I would like to assure Mr Van Rooijen that we will bring that question to the platform one more time. Most people who have tried to adjust that limit themselves will know that this can be done via internet banking. But it's also possible if you go to a bank branch. You can even make your day limit flexible, so for a period low and then high again. It seems to me that it is precisely for the vast majority of consumers that it is the best solution that they can make an assessment of themselves, to a maximum, of course, that fits their spending pattern.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u129	Background to the question was the following. I, as well as colleagues from my group and colleagues in the Chamber, sometimes hear stories, facts, that older people, as well as others, young people, are being robbed. Before taking adequate measures to avoid the consequences... If it takes days before an older person comes to a bank via the children to arrange this there or can arrange it over the internet, not everyone who is older can be debited four times €250 from the bank account of that older person. That's a lot of money for some people. If you lower that limit, you can only take off €400 in four days and not €1,000.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u130	Again, my impression is that this can already be done by most banks and that a decree of mine is really not necessary in any way. Insofar as I could or would want to obtain such a decree legally at all. I'll recognize the problem. I usually try to keep my family out of the debates, but my 95-year-old aunt did indeed lose her bank card in this way. By the way, I found it quite impressive that a policeman came along who had seen on the declaration form that she was over 90 years old and thought she might need help with the follow-up. I thought, "What a good deal we've done." I would like to agree with the point about this limit, but people themselves, whether or not in dialogue with their bank, have to take the initiative.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u131	We went to a bank today to find out how it works. There is the daily limit of €250. There's just that limit. So that's the case if you don't do anything to get it lower. I suppose that's possible. That's what the Minister is suggesting. But is the Minister prepared to discuss again with the banks whether that limit could not just go down because of the loss of a pass and in particular the stealing of passes? I call abuse of the elderly by carers, all of which plays a role.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u132	No doubt. The other side of that is, of course, making people happy against their will. There are probably also people, perhaps Mr Van Rooijen himself is one of them, who likes it that when they buy they do not immediately see that they can no longer shop because they have reached their limit and therefore have to wait until the 24 hours are up. So I would like to put the question to the organisations that are thinking about it again. I am a little hesitant to say immediately that this is a problem that should be resolved in this way. But if we agree wholeheartedly with Mr Van Rooijen, then we can discuss this with each other. Mr. Chairman. Ten minutes it didn't turn out to be, but I think I found a fairly midway between the speed and the answer of all the questions. I came to the end of my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u133	Thank you very much. I'm looking at the members for their second term. Some have indicated that they do not need it. Mr Van Rooijen certainly does. I give you the floor. One minute. Shall we try?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u134	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the answers, including the many colleagues who took part in the debate on this important subject. I'm still not quite comfortable with the topic of municipalities. As I pointed out, the European Central Bank said in November that pin only is not allowed in municipalities and is contrary to European law. That is why I have the next motion, partly on behalf of Mr Ronnes. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that in 2016 there were 21 municipalities where municipal services could no longer be settled with cash and that this number may have increased since then;]] [[whereas cash is a legal means of payment and that it is seen by large groups in our society as the preferred means of payment, e.g. the elderly or people living on budget;]] [[whereas public authorities have an exemplary role to play, which should also be reflected in the authorisation of payment options;]] [[invites the government to enter into consultation with the VNG with the intention that cash can be settled in any city hall in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Rooijen and Ronnes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27863/76]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for his quick but good response. He continues to work on the 500 euro banknote. It started six years ago. It's not out yet, but it's gonna happen sometime. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the number of cash payments is decreasing and substantial cost savings are achieved by the increase in debit payments;]] [[Whereas the cost of payment accounts increases annually, while people no longer receive interest on payment accounts;]] [[calls on the cabinet to engage with banks to ensure that the savings associated with less cash payments also benefit consumers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27863-77]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u136	I asked another question about the costs of pins, not for consumers, but for shopkeepers. These are really low internationally in the Netherlands. We're getting credit card companies that are going to be more active in that. I would ask the Minister to pay attention to this, because these talks are coming to an end and then there will be new annual agreements. At least, I hope so. I would ask the Minister to respond to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u137	Thank you. Then Mr Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u138	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Minister for his reply. I await the answers to Mr Alkaya's written questions regarding SecurCash and DNB. I have one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that fewer and fewer payments are made in cash;]] [[Whereas it is desirable that people should be able to choose at any time to pay or to pins in cash;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that shopkeepers are obliged to accept both pin and cash as legal tender, without any additional charges being charged,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Tony van Dijck. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27863-78]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u139	Thank you, Mr President. I had three motions, but I noticed that a motion has already been tabled on the municipalities. That doesn't mean I have to file our motion. I note that the Minister needs a little more support from the Chamber towards the authorities, municipalities and banks. That is why I would like to table two motions today. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that some groups in our society, such as the elderly and the visually impaired, remain dependent on cash payments;]] [[noting that the government considers that cash has a social function that cannot always be taken over by a debit card, in particular for vulnerable groups;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a concrete plan of action to promote the availability of cash payments for people in a vulnerable position,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27863-79]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u140	We at DENK believe that the government should give the guarantee that we can always pay with cash, with cash, anywhere, especially in public services. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to ensure that people in public services always have the opportunity to pay in cash,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27863-80]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u141	Yeah, just to be able to judge her properly. So we're going to pay in cash again in Amsterdam, with all the dangers of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u142	Yes, all the dangers of that. I think we should promote from the government that anyone can pay with cash. You say, in other words, that a person who does not have a debit card should not use our bus services. That's one way to reason. We must make public transport accessible to all and, yes, there are dangers. That's why there's a government. We need to protect the people who work in the danger zone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u143	Is that a yes or a no?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u144	I believe that everyone in the Netherlands should be able to pay with cash, cash, on the buses.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u145	Okay. Then we shall vote against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u146	It's okay. The VVD gave an example today, about the windows. What was it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u147	The window washer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u148	Pay the window washer in cash. Then I thought, "Do you get a ticket back?" That was my second question. Anyway, I didn't ask that question. It is important that people can also use public transport without a debit card, even if there is a safety problem. We have to deal with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u149	Thank you. I'm looking at the minister. He says he doesn't have the last two motions yet. Let's wait for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u150	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u151	Mr President, thank you. What has changed a lot, also in recent years, in terms of digital payment. Just after all the comparisons some of the members have made, I had to remember how in a very gray past I paid my mother with cheques and a pass at the supermarket. Then we would have been in line for hours to get those checks and those checks had to be in a different bag than the bank card, because imagine that both would fall into the hands of an unauthorized person. And now my daughter, without pinning her PIN, just puts the pass on a vending machine and then we go to the next store. I say it a little lightly, but that is exactly why we are having this debate. That is precisely because we want to ensure that we continue to do it efficiently, but also accessible to everyone. I have heard one more question from Mr Nijboer. That is a valid point and I will draw attention to it. So thank you for that question. The answer to that is yes. Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to the motions. The first motion, in part No. 76, by Mr Van Rooijen and Mr Ronnes, deals with consultation with the VNG. In itself, I understand what this motion is about, but I do not think that this is so neat and not so courteous towards the BZK colleagues, who are still coming with a letter. So my request would be to hold the motion. Should it still be necessary, the motion may be put to the vote after the letter. I really do, but I just don't think it's very nice to do this while colleagues are writing a letter on a subject that is actually this subject. I hope, therefore, that Mr Van Rooijen will understand that, and that he will be able to move on with my promise that I will urge colleagues to do so as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u152	On behalf of my colleague, Mr Ronnes, I would like to say that we are prepared to hold the motion if the Minister can urge his colleague to do so as a matter of urgency.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u153	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u154	Good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u155	Yes, Mr President, I had already promised. Then the motion to part No. 77, by Mr Nijboer. There is always a debate in which Mr Nijboer knows exactly where it gets complicated. Look, I understand his question very well, and he understands very well with me that banks themselves are about this. He realizes at least as well as I do that Dutch banks, also internationally, already charge very low payment fees. At the same time, he is asking me to discuss this again. Well, "going into conversation" doesn't seem too much to ask, so I'll leave that motion to judge Chamber. The motion tabled by Mr Van Dijck, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian But Mr Van Dijck will not be surprised, after hearing my second or third block, that I should not recommend this motion. Because if we were to do this, we would turn back exactly what is not desirable and necessary as far as I am concerned. Then I come to the fourth motion, in part No. 80, by Mr Öztürk. It's about ensuring that people in public services can always pay in cash. I should also advise against this, precisely because I have tried to explain why, for example, we have taken a different path in public transport. Excuse me, Mr President, I think I have the motion in part No. Mr Oztürk, Member of the Commission. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking Mr Oztürk for his excellent report. I have mislaid his two motions myself, but they both get the same judgment, because the motion in part No. Seventy-nine, I must also advise against it. This motion calls for a concrete plan of action for the availability of cash. We have ensured, precisely with this social dialogue, that we are not only looking at the here and now, but also looking forward. So I think it would be a bit of a disqualification if I put an additional plan of the government's approach to that. That would suggest that it is not working properly, and my view is exactly the opposite. However, I have already told Mr Öztürk that I share his concern for the very vulnerable groups in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u156	It can be positive. You can talk to civil society organisations, get advice and make a plan. That is exactly how you take these organisations seriously and say: wait a minute, we've been talking to you for a while and that's why we're making plans, because we're seeing less and less cash payments in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u157	Yes. In those places where, according to everyone involved, it automatically goes well, I always try not to entertain people with a concrete plan of approach on the same theme. I think that would really put the horse behind the cart. So I do not, but I share with Mr Öztürk his justified demand for attention to vulnerable people. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u158	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-8.u159	I thank the Minister for coming to the Chamber. The motions will be put to the vote next Tuesday.
