ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-3.u1	It is a bit uncomfortable, but we will continue with oral Question Time. Today, oral Question Time is also dedicated to the attack in Utrecht. I give the floor to Mr Van Haersma Buma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-3.u2	Madam President. First of all, thank you and the Prime Minister for the words of compassion and respect that have just been expressed on our behalf and on behalf of the Netherlands. Yesterday's horrible events in Utrecht still concern us today. Three people have been ripped out of life by a brutal act of violence. Five others were injured. I wish all the families and neighbors who have lost loved ones strength and strength and I am in mind with those who are currently in the hospital. I would also like to express my deep appreciation for the emergency services, for the police, for the ambulance staff and for the fire department. I would also like to pay great respect to those bystanders who were first on the scene in that frightened hour and who cared about the victims. After the day of yesterday, the Netherlands remains left with a lot of questions. Questions that are well and need to be asked, even here. Hence the questions today. At the same time, the CDA is well aware that the rulers do not yet have all the answers; they will come later. And if more is known, we will also discuss with the Cabinet what has happened, what lessons can be drawn. But for now, the following questions. Those are questions about the follow-up to what happened yesterday. I think these are questions that lie first and foremost in the area of the Minister of Justice and Security. First of all, here's the thing. It has been discussed for a while, but is there more to be said about the perpetrator's possible motive because yesterday, between the start and the end, several reports about it came in the media and were brought out? What's the possible motive? Second. Looks like this suspect has a history, up to recently, of criminal offences. Many will wonder: how can such a person walk so freely? I also ask the Minister this question. Finally. What can the Minister tell us about the background of the suspect who was fortunately detained in Utrecht last night?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-3.u3	I now give the floor to the Minister of Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-3.u4	Mr. Chairman. There was a serious attack yesterday in Utrecht, in which a man shot at fellow passengers in a tram. There are three deaths and three serious injuries to be regretted. I sympathise with the victims and their relatives, but also with all those who have had to experience it on the spot. Yesterday was dedicated to ending the threat and tracking down the suspect. The prime suspect has been apprehended and it is now a matter of presenting all the facts and circumstances. The criminal investigation is currently in full swing. The person concerned is known to the Justice Department. So far, a terrorist motive has been taken seriously by the Public Prosecutor's Office. Other motives are not excluded and are also investigated. In the interests of independent justice, the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office should be given every opportunity to investigate the facts and circumstances, including with regard to the free movement of persons and also with regard to the background. I cannot go into that at the moment, precisely in the interests of justice. Finally, I would like to say one thing. This attack is a great shock to our society. It's important that we keep our cool and let the police and the D.A. do their job.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-3.u5	Thank you to the Minister for his answers so far. I told you, I realize that many of the questions are not yet answerable. That does not alter the fact that those answers must ever be given, both about the case, the perpetrator and the background, and about what it means to the security of our country, which is so very important. My question to the Minister would therefore be, finally, how will this investigation be further developed, including where questions other than criminal law are concerned? How can the Chamber be informed about this, so that we can actually have a debate here at some point on what we can learn from it and what we can do to ensure safety in this country?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-3.u6	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I believe that it is now of the utmost importance that the criminal investigation should take place and continue unhindered. That's one. Two. It goes without saying that we shall be coming to speak to the Chamber in greater detail. The cabinet will of course be fully accountable to the Chamber about yesterday's events, what preceded them and how it was taken up yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-3.u7	Thank you, Mr. Van Haersma Buma. Then Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-3.u8	What an outrageous statement by this Minister of Justice! He should be ashamed of coming here to the Chamber with such a bullshit story. We have a Turk in Utrecht, who, while screaming "Allahoe akbar," now shows that in his car there was a piece of paper on which Allah stood and in which he supports his Muslim brothers, just shoots innocent people and even kills three people. And it wasn't just anyone; no, it's someone who turns out to have been released by the court, while the Public Prosecutor's Office, which this minister is responsible for, didn't oppose it. What's the matter with this guy? He'd already had burglary, theft and attempted manslaughter on his head, and he was suspected of rape, but since he said he'd cooperate, that criminal, that Islamic terrorist, was believed on his brown eyes and he mowed down people in broad daylight a few weeks later. You are politically responsible for that. I will immediately request a debate to be held today and put forward a motion of censure against this weak minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-3.u9	As mentioned above, the facts and circumstances in this case, including the fact that the person concerned had a judicial file, but also all other circumstances that are being relied on, will be further addressed in the investigation. Once that criminal investigation has come to a point where that is possible, the cabinet will certainly be accountable to your Chamber, as I have already said. I think it is in the interests of the matter at the moment to keep our calm and not get in the way of that investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-3.u10	Finally, Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-3.u11	That is, of course, in the interest of this minister, who is trying to put it all under the carpet, who wants to lift it over the elections. But your own state's attorney's office has just made it public, so it's facts I'm talking about; they don't need to be investigated that the man had a criminal record from here to Tokyo, from rape to attempted manslaughter, from burglary to theft, and that they released him on March 1, because he promised to cooperate in a personality investigation. Instead of doing so, he bought a gun, loaded the gun, went on Monday morning to the district of Kanaleneiland, where I lived for ten years, he got on the tram and fired haphazardly because the victims had no connection with him; so nothing honour or relationship problems killed innocent people. Because the D.A. released him. You're responsible for that. You've got to get out of here! Get out of here!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-3.u12	It's true that the D.A. has made a number of facts public. There is therefore no question of things being swept under the carpet. I would like to stress once again that the cabinet will be fully, openly and transparently accountable to the Chamber for this horrible event, which may have preceded it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-3.u13	It feels strange to be standing here, but it is also good that we are talking about the tragedy that took place yesterday in Utrecht. The most terrible thing is that no matter what words are the most beautiful today or how hard they are, the three dead don't live with them anymore. The victims who were injured won't get their lives back. Yet it is important that we stand here and ask the questions. I think the question everyone's asking this morning, at the coffee machine, is in class: why did this guy walk free? Now I understand when the Minister says: in no way do I wish to obstruct the criminal investigation. I'm not asking about the criminal implications either. What is important, however, is the question: how has the policy of this cabinet and of previous Cabinets influenced this? There have been cuts on the state's attorney's office and on the prison system in recent years. Is there a link to the question why this guy's out there? I understand that the Minister may not be able to give the answer now, but I would ask him to inform the Chamber as soon as possible so that we can have the debate on this properly informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-3.u14	First of all, on the proceedings surrounding the suspension of the provisional detention by the court of Arnhem-Leeuwarden. It is up to the Council to communicate on this matter. This is also part of the independence of justice and powers. Then there is the other point that Mr Klaver raises. I would like to say straight away that there will be a full evaluation of this horrible event, what preceded it and how it happened on the day itself. All aspects will be dealt with. As a cabinet, we must answer to your Chamber for this. I will certainly take into account the circumstances that Mr Klaver suggests. I admit that there will be a letter to that effect, but I would stress that if it really becomes substantive, I will not send it until the criminal investigation allows me to do so. 'Cause I don't want to get in the way of that lawsuit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-3.u15	Yesterday it became cold with me and my colleagues when we heard what had happened in Utrecht. We too have great sympathy with all those who have fallen victim to it and who now have great grief to bear. My question has certainly just been asked by Mr Klaver when it comes to judicial investigations, but I am particularly concerned about the political question why the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice thought yesterday to be able to prelude on the motive of the perpetrator by talking about a possible terrorist motive. In doing so, they left society even more in fearful ignorance. We expect the cabinet and a prime minister to de-escalate, to urge people to calm down and to wait for the judicial investigation before he starts speculating in advance on the motive of the perpetrator. This does not seem to me to be in the interests of a peaceful society. It must remain calm and make the right decisions instead of being guided by fear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-3.u16	Let me begin by stressing that the cabinet has followed exactly the terms of the Public Prosecutor's Office in its communication. That's one. Two. Yesterday it was soon announced that there was an attack. I have also been responsible for this twice by explaining that this is an event with a very large impact, with direct victims who, as I said earlier, have been shot down in a regular tram without precedent. Was there a terrorist motive? That was possible yesterday. I quote again what the Public Prosecutor says today: 'A terrorist motive is being taken seriously into account, but other motives are not excluded and are also being investigated'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-3.u17	It also has a very big impact on society if you, as head of the cabinet, preach to the possibility of a terrorist attack, without having any reason to support it. I therefore believe that more care should be taken. I also ask the cabinet to see to what extent there is still good direction in Utrecht, as yesterday we were allowed to hear from the mayor that three suspects had been arrested but had already been released and then the police issued a statement that they were still in custody. A chaotic message doesn't contribute to confidence. I'll ask the Cabinet to see to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-3.u18	With regard to the first point, it is important for the cabinet to fully focus in communication to society on what the competent authorities, in this case the Public Prosecutor and the National Counter-Terrorism and Security Coordinator, are communicating. I assure you that happened yesterday and today. It was very unfortunate that this morning, unfortunately, the mayor gave false information. That was this morning. It's been corrected by the police almost immediately. It is not for me to apologize on behalf of the mayor, but I understand Mrs Thieme's concern. Through you, Mr President, I say to Mrs Thieme: be assured that Mr Aalbersberg, as well as myself, is constantly working on it, also to ensure that communication is good. It's unfortunate that this happened, but it recovered immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-3.u19	We are in mind and heart, just like everyone else here, with the people in Utrecht. We, like everyone else here, have a great deal of appreciation and respect for the aid workers and the citizens who rose up yesterday, sometimes at risk for their own lives, to do what was necessary. Like probably everyone else, we also have a lot of questions. There must be something about me here, to which I would like the Minister's response. Yesterday, during the course of the day and the course of the evening, with increasing amazement, which at some point became indignation and disgust, I looked at how some of us in this Chamber dealt with yesterday's situation. I am referring to people here in the room who are going to speculate a little further up in the Kurhaus on what the answers might be to the questions that, in a democracy, in a rule of law, have to be asked here first. I would also like to call on those colleagues to stop doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-3.u20	Mr. Chairman. I've been in all kinds of discussions and discussions until pretty late last night, so I can't...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-3.u21	No. Then I will go to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-3.u22	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-3.u23	Or was it Mr Van der Staaij? Who was before? Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-3.u24	We all feel touched and struck by what happened yesterday in Utrecht: the violent attack. It is a good thing that words have been given to that today, after it has first been considered. In our thoughts and prayers we are with all those people who are so directly affected by this. But I also think it is right that we should think together about whether the government is doing everything it can to ensure our security. The minister says the criminal investigation is ongoing and he can't anticipate that. I understand. At the same time, I notice that the impact is considerable from the fact that people can seem to have a lot on their consciences and are not sufficiently targeted by the government. My question to the Minister is therefore the following. If we look at what is now on the news, is he also prepared to look more broadly at whether there are risks with regard to people with a decent criminal record, who are in an environment where jihadist or salafistic sympathies live? Is that research being carried out, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-3.u25	It has been suggested that our services are extremely alert and vigilant. Last Friday, following press enquiries surrounding the terrible tragedy in Christchurch, I pointed out that the National Coordinator on Counter-Terrorism and Security, who, as you know, is an independent official, is still maintaining the threat level in the Netherlands at 4. That means substantial threat. In some of our neighbouring countries, that is different. That's where it's been reduced to three recently. This very high level of threat means that we all take it very seriously, that we are very alert and that many of the related, but sometimes not linked, visible and invisible measures are taken. I hate to say that, but it turns out that something as horrible as yesterday could happen. As said before, the cabinet will discuss this with the Chamber, after the relevant matters have first been taken into account in the run-up to the event and in the event itself. I can only confirm the point made by Mr Van der Staaij. Even more than has happened, we will have that alertness to the various concerns that may exist among individuals and groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-3.u26	Thank you for this response. Can I ask the Minister not to report on the events in Utrecht until the end of the criminal investigation? There may also be broader questions and aspects, for example the way we deal with systematic perpetrators, where it is valuable, without harming the criminal investigation, to be informed about them in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-3.u27	I think that's a good idea. I imagine that in the foreseeable future I will be able to inform your Chamber of matters on which, in the short term, I will be able to go into further details in the course of the investigation. Other matters are of such a nature that we cannot talk about them now in the state of law. I'll make that clear soon. I will also bring to the Chamber a number of cases that can be answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-3.u28	Mr. Chairman. Firstly, on behalf of my group, I would like to say that we find it very difficult to move from one moment to the next. Yesterday's events have had a terrible impact on many people in Utrecht, in the Netherlands. On behalf of my group, I would also like to say that I am with the next of kin, with the victims and with everyone who has been affected in the heart. Mr. Chairman. Then we'll talk about communication. In the morning we saw rather quickly contradictory messages coming out. The Prime Minister spoke of a possible terrorist motive. Such coverage, such possible scenarios, have an impact on society. I heard the Minister of Justice and Security speak about following the public prosecutor's reports. That may be wise, but is it not also the task of the Prime Minister in particular to lead in such cases, to show leadership, rather than to bring out suggestive messages, where there is the possibility of this or a possibility of that? Is it not the responsibility of the government to rule things out instead of throwing more oil on the fire so that suggestions become even stronger?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-3.u29	Mr. Chairman. I would like to stress once again that no member of the cabinet has distributed contradictory reports, nor has the Public Prosecutor's Office. If you put the communication together, you will see that yesterday the Public Prosecutor left open the possibility of a terrorist motive and that it gradually became clear, as has been communicated today, that it had to be taken seriously, but that other motives were not excluded. Furthermore, the Public Prosecutor's Office has an independent investigative role. The cabinet can't take any lead in that. I would find it contrary to the rule of law if the cabinet took a lead in that. For the people in the Chamber, too, I say that is why I am not going to say anything about the investigation or what I think of certain facts and circumstances that are being reviewed here today. This does not fit in with the rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-3.u30	It is particularly important that the Minister for Justice and Security realizes that at this moment too, all eyes are on him. As far as I am concerned, he has a responsibility not only to speak on behalf of the government today, but also to show a little leadership. Actually, I expect more from the Prime Minister. My point remains, because I would find it oh so handsome if these two rulers at the moment were to say: people, we must be vigilant, we must be alert, we must keep calm and calm. They should not unnecessarily suggest possible things, thus creating even more uncertainty and even more tension in society. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-3.u31	I want to stress that it is important that we continue our lives. I have already stressed this in my introduction, in response to questions from Mr Buma, and the Prime Minister has said the same. If we continue our lives, we will show that we do not give in to intolerance in the Netherlands. We're not gonna let them break us up. And, of course, we are in close contact with the communities and join what lives in society. Finally, as I said in reply to Mr Buma, however difficult, and as much as we are overwhelmed by emotions, we must keep calm.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-3.u32	Mr Segers, on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-3.u33	Madam President, I would like to thank you for your dignified words at the memorial. And the Prime Minister also said it strikingly: we were struck in the heart. I think we all sensed that yesterday. We have all sympathized with Utrecht. I liked to see that almost Chamberwide, almost in full political breadth, wanted to show respect to everyone and to stop the campaign. In fact, I would like to put a little more emphasis on that rather than, well, the attention that a colleague has received for deciding in his wisdom not to stop the campaign. That's up to him, but most of the Chamber did. I understand that the Minister says: I have to stop on many issues and talk about them a little later. At the same time, there are many questions in society. How could someone walk free with this on their hands? What about the communication? And what about the security services? Are they able to do what they have to do? I understand that the Minister says he can only answer some questions later. But certainly with regard to that last question, which is about security, I believe citizens have the right to know whether security services are able to do what they have to do. We are impressed by what we saw yesterday, at least: I am impressed. But still the question: are the security services able to guarantee our safety and the safety of all citizens in Utrecht, but also in other places? Is there enough staff for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-3.u34	Our security services are very well equipped. Our security services are also highly regarded internationally, as are our national police. It will certainly not be up to them. In any case, you saw this yesterday in the way in which yesterday was acted. A threat level 4 involves a very high level of alertness; I have already said that. The fact that something as terrible as what happened yesterday in Utrecht could have happened rightly raises questions. I want, as much as your room, that all questions can be answered and that we bring up the bottom stone. And I say very clearly: that must be done, with all the painful truths that go with it. We owe this to the victims and their relatives alone; let that be very clear. And I also call a little for us not to have the division that it would be about covering things up. You have noticed that the Public Prosecutor's Office, and as I understand it in the meantime also the Council for Justice, has given full openness to press releases on what is going on. We need to get that bottom rock up about this horrible incident. And I specifically say that in the meantime we must also continue with our lives. We continue to have services that are extremely alert and on top of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-3.u35	I understand that these questions will be answered later and that we will get an answer to them in all honesty. But could I ask the Minister to make an honest analysis of our security services and cooperation? Because we've seen in communication that it wasn't entirely synchronised, so there's a lot to ask about that. Is he willing to let go of that analysis in all honesty? Can we at all times do what we have to do to provide citizens with the protection they need?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-3.u36	Yes, but I'd like to break a small lance for our services. I have already said that a few things in communication in the last 30 hours have not gone quite well. They'll be repaired immediately. But we would be failing them if we were now to say that there have been major communication problems. The good thing about our society, apart from many other things, is that we are honest with each other, that we report those mistakes and that we do something about them right away. But that does not change, as I have already said, the fact that I am committed to such an analysis. That's what we're gonna come up with.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-3.u37	We are sad about the victims and we sympathize with the next of kin: the parents of the 19-year-old girl and the family that the father has lost. The first question that comes to our mind is: could this have been prevented? That's a very broad question, but I'll deepen it. Were there any signs of radicalization around this person? Others have more or less pointed this out, but I would like to ask that question explicitly. Is it true that after Christchurch in the past few days, before the incident of Utrecht, there has been a scaling-up because this could happen even in that country? The Netherlands, too, has so far been protected from this. We have now been scaled up in terms of terror and risks. The tram, the bus. Shots fired. That hasn't been shown before. Has there been any scaling up for the weekend following Christchurch? That is the first question I would like to ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-3.u38	The question of whether someone is in the picture with the intelligence services can never be decided in public. I have already promised you, I would stress that once again, when the criminal investigation permits, we will analyse all these points and present them to your Chamber. Perhaps that will be at an earlier stage with regard to some of the questions, as I indicated in my reply to Mr Van der Staaij. You will then have the opportunity, with all the information on the table, to give your opinion on that. If you think there's still some information to come, we'll find out at the time. We should not judge that now, because it is all aspects that are included in the research that is currently taking place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-3.u39	My first question was: could this have been prevented? After the terrible event in New Zealand, was there a greater alertness? You can say "I can't tell you what we might have done," but was there any discussion last weekend? Because what happened there is unprecedented. It's got global attention. It's made the country tremble to the ground. That could happen here, too. Did that play? That's actually my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-3.u40	Excuse me. Mr Van Rooijen is right about that. I have said before that there is certainly following Christchurch... The NCTV has left the threat level at 4 because that can technically only go to 5 if there really is an attack here. You were able to see that yesterday. But the alertness of the police and other services was raised last Friday. Once again, on the question of whether this could have been avoided, I have already promised your Chamber that we must, of course, analyse that point. We owe it to the victims and their relatives alone to answer for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-3.u41	While we were following the news yesterday, had silenced most of our campaign activities and joined together to talk about what had happened, we actually noticed that very little has been made known about the victims and who they were. Why is there so little out there about that? Doesn't the Minister think that if more had been brought out about it, it would have been clear much sooner what was going on here?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-3.u42	The disclosure of victims' data is subject to a fixed procedure, which has been followed here. This is a procedure that focuses primarily on care, to be able to identify who it is, and then on privacy and the personal atmosphere, so that first family is informed. The public prosecutor gave further information on this today, I believe, around 12.00 p.m. I would like to stress that the importance of the victims and their close relatives really outweighs the importance of news for society. I hope you can understand that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-3.u43	Finally, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-3.u44	The Minister now makes me talk about personal address information and that sort of thing, but it's just... Are we talking about a man or a woman? Young or old? That's the kind of business we're dealing with. Of course, that could have been announced much earlier without having to give the name or the precise instructions immediately. I think that could have given a lot of clarity. My second question is an open question: how does the Minister assess the success of immigration and integration policies in recent years in the light of these terrible events? That's an open question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-3.u45	We were struck by a terrible tragedy yesterday. I think we can say that. I have already told you that we are going to analyse what happened and what happened. We must then indeed focus on what has happened there and what might have been prevented there. We have a society in the Netherlands in which we are tolerant and in which we hang out. I have also made a clear appeal to keep doing so. I believe that, as Minister of Justice, I am obliged to the victims to do everything in my power to give the prosecutor and the judge the opportunity to make a proper assessment here. In addition, I believe that I am obliged to answer to your Chamber about how this terrible thing happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-3.u46	Mr. Jetten. No, Mr. Baudet. I give the floor to Mr Jetten on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-3.u47	Yesterday was a black day for Utrecht. On behalf of my group, too, I would like to say that our thoughts are on the victims and on the next of kin. Our thanks go to all the emergency services that took action so quickly yesterday to save lives and grab the suspect in the collar. For us as politicians, there is no plan for what we should do after such a terrible day, but I would like to join Mrs Marijnissen's appeal to all our colleagues. Of course, we have questions about how this could have happened. Of course, we want the Minister and the Cabinet to clarify this as soon as possible, so that we can have the debate on it. But please let us temper ourselves, while the flag hangs half-stick and people in the hospital fight for their lives, in drawing conclusions that only stir up hatred and division in this society and increase polarization. If I then stand here at this cathedral next to a colleague who, while all the parties have stopped their campaign, already last night spoke big words about migration and thus pointed a finger at groups in the Netherlands, while one madman committed a terrible act, a colleague who does not even have the decency to be in this room on time when we commemorate the victims, then I am really sick while I am standing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-3.u48	It wasn't really a question, but a call to everyone, I understand. So I'm going to see Mr Asscher unless you'd like to respond, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-3.u49	No, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-3.u50	Then I will go to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-3.u51	I'd like to offer my condolences to the next of kin, who are grieving now. I want to wish the people who got hurt good luck. And I would like to thank everyone who worked very hard yesterday and today to save people, keep people safe, and manage this in the right direction. I think that anyone who has already reached a conclusion when you are actually in the aftermath of such a crisis speaks for his turn. There's no one to be found who doesn't want to know why the unsub was able to walk free. There's no one to be found who doesn't want to know what we can learn from this affair. Maybe it's appropriate to just reflect on today's grief that people feel and thank the people who have worked so hard. As far as I am concerned, this also applies to the premature conclusions on communication. When you're in a crisis, mistakes are made. You're gonna learn from that. What I have seen are hardworking people, also on the government side, including the mayor, also the two rulers here, who have done their best to deal with it. I think we as a country should also be grateful that there are a lot of people who step forward when there is a crisis, if we are threatened by a horrible attack. We will learn all the lessons from that, we will ask all the questions about it, but as far as I'm concerned, it doesn't have to now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-3.u52	Okay. Then I will go to Mr Dijkhoff on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-3.u53	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday was a black day. Three people have been randomly removed from their lives, ripped away from our society, killed by a person. We have a lot of questions about the motives. After that, we saw confidence-building action. You hope you never see it, but what you saw was trusting government and services. They got there fast. The suspected perpetrator was caught relatively quickly. During the day, I think we have received more questions than we can ask now, but I also respect that the answers cannot now be given by the cabinet. I think it also makes sense for people to start filling in for themselves in the absence of answers. Although I do not do it myself, it is not inhuman for people to draw conclusions, for people to speculate about motives and for people to know for themselves what it is. Others will find something about that, and before you know it, we will find something about each other, rather than grieving with the next of kin and supporting the people who are still fighting for their lives or injured in other ways. Before you know it, we'll forget that reality isn't here, it's outside. It's not gone with that. It remains that people have already heard, read and been given more widely in society yesterday. I asked myself hundreds of things that I had forgotten an hour later, because the facts turned out to be different again. So I just want to inform the Cabinet that I assume that the Chamber will be informed of everything, as soon as we can, and then we'll talk about it. But don't just go into communication with society about what you have found to be true, but also look at what things are still going on, what questions remain open in society, which perhaps the facts that we have found will not answer. Also see if there can be an active effort to disprove and put into perspective persistent rumours or scenarios that continue to occur. Let us also pay attention to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-3.u54	Then I shall give the floor to the Minister, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-3.u55	Mr. Chairman. Very briefly in response to the last three speakers. There is great doubt about yesterday's event. There are also a lot of questions that go right through each other. In this respect, I understand very well what Mr Dijkhoff is saying: one minute I thought this, the next I thought that. As a cabinet, we understand that this is happening in the population. We have the task of ensuring peace and quiet over and over again and to say to the people: we are ensuring safety and we are also ensuring that the answers are given. That's the point. In the meantime, we must hope that together we can turn that despair into the strength to move forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-tweedekamer-3.u56	Thank you. Then we have come to the end of this oral Question Time. I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the Minister for Justice and Security. Thank you.
