ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-05-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the commemoration of Loes Vonhoff-Luijendijk. I ask the Members to stand up. On 2 February last, Loes Vonhoff-Luijendijk, former senator for the VVD, died. She was a member of the First Chamber from 24 January 1978 to 11 June 1991. Louise Vonhoff-Luijendijk was born on 21 October 1926 in Heerlen. Her father was an inspector in the mining industry. After elementary school in Kerelsheide, she attended household school for two years. Next, she did the three-year-old HBS at the girls' high school, the Saint Clara College, in Heerlen. In 1949, she graduated from the Social Academy in Sittard. She was the only non-Catholic at the academy to find it difficult and inspired by Aletta Jacobs. "He wasn't stopped either," said Loes Vonhoff. Her first job as a social worker was at the Municipal Social Service in Purmerend. From 1955 to 1961, Loes Vonhoff was a social worker at Stichting familieverzorging Amsterdam-Noord. From 1962 to 1966 she was a social worker at various companies, including Heineken's Bierbrouwerij Maatschappij. From 1972 to 1974 Loes Vonhoff was a social worker at De Nederlandsche Bank. Politically active Loes Vonhoff became a member of the VVD. Loes Vonhoff motivated her step in this way: "I thought I might be able to do more in politics than with all that plodding as a social worker." From 1966 to 1971 she was a member of the city council of Amsterdam for the VVD. When her husband Henk Vonhoff became Secretary of State in 1971, she decided to quit as a city council member. In 1974 she was re-elected, but she did not take up the position in connection with the appointment of Henk Vonhoff, her husband, mayor of Utrecht. In 1978 she was a candidate for the First Chamber and spoke out in an interview about the proposal for new abortion legislation that was rejected by the Senate a year earlier, including some VVD members: "That this could happen in the party... I am particularly politically awakened by that. (...) If you tighten the law again, the socially weaker, the very young girls (...) will be the victims. And that can't happen." As a social worker, Loes Vonhoff knew the practice well. That experience would continue to motivate her. When Loes Vonhoff was elected to the First Chamber in 1978, she became the VVD spokesperson for cultural affairs, Antillean affairs and education. She was also chairman of the permanent Committee for Culture and Recreation, from 1983 onwards the permanent Committee for Culture. In her maiden speech in the budget for Culture, Recreation and Social Work, on 10 April 1979 which was 40 years ago next month, she made a speech about liberalism, which she believed was accusing of selfish thinking: "When it comes to well-being, opportunities for development for individuals and the position of the weaker in society, the danger is more of those who think that collectivity is always more valuable and decisive than the single human being, while one should know that human dignity and humanity at first instance are individual matters, in which the collectivity must be conditional, but not decisive." She then continued her speech with a plea for the promotion of volunteering, for new initiatives which should not be at the expense of higher human costs, and for the Cultural Youth Passport. Loes Vonhoff was also particularly active in emancipation policy in the Chamber. This led to considerable criticism in 1987 of then Secretary of State De Graaf of Social Affairs and Employment, whom she called "a stranger in Jerusalem" in this policy area. Loes Vonhoff noted that women are slowly gaining ground in higher positions, both administratively and in business and association life. The fact that she also involved emancipation in her own situation appeared when she looked back at the year 1971. In that year, Henk Vonhoff became Secretary of State for Culture, Recreation and Social Work and left the Amsterdam City Council, in which she spoke on these subjects: "In the end, I said: I could and should have refused then. In any case, I could have discussed with the group the exchange of portfolios for the time it would take. (...) No one asked me to stay, so I thought it was supposed to be. (...) I was fit for it then, but I wouldn't do it now.'. As a former senator, Loes Vonhoff remained very involved in the work of the Upper House and the VVD Group. I remember her warm political interest in the annual meetings of former VVD senators. In addition to her political and social career, Mrs Vonhoff-Luijendijk was among others a member of the Welfare Policy Harmonisation Council, of the Broadcasting Council and of the Chief Executive of the Humanist Confederation. In 1990 she was appointed Knight of the Order of the Dutch Lion. Loes Vonhoff-Luijendijk called the concern for one another and the attention for the fellow man "the cement of society." She has always worked with great enthusiasm for this. May our respect for her person and her merits for society and Dutch parliamentary democracy be to support her family and friends. I ask everyone to observe a moment's silence.
