ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u1	The next item is the defence budget. A warm word of welcome to the Minister and the Secretary of State. Thank you for joining us. It was a late night the day before yesterday, it was a late night, but you are just fresh, fruity and cheerful at 10.15 am.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u2	Last night we listened to the contributions of the Chamber. Now we're gonna listen to the government's term. I am happy to give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As you said, we sat here on Tuesday night in roughly the same composition for a long time. I have to say, it's crazy to just move on. At least I had that feeling yesterday, because such a debate is coming to me at least, let me speak for myself. It felt like moving on to the order of the day, while ultimately it was about something very serious. It was a serious matter: the fact that, for the first time, we were able to make public that many civilian casualties were caused by our actions in Hawija and Mosul. But it also affects an important constitutional interest: the importance that your Chamber should be able to trust that the information it receives is correct. Eventually, it was about the House's trust in me. I am and I feel responsible. I realize, like no other, that trust needs to be worked on. Anyone who knows how I work will acknowledge that I always work on trust. So it didn't just go to the order of day for me. But we're going back to the budget. On the day of my arrival, I said something about that. I consider 60,000 people working for our safety at risk for their own lives to be a heavy responsibility. I will never deal lightly with them and their safety. I will stand for them and their work. That's what our people are worth. In fact, all civil servants do their work with passion for the public task. I stand before my people. I was and I am aware from day one that there was and is much to do, and that we had to come together from far away. We have said from the beginning that it will go step by step and that there is an enormous amount of work to be done. Back to today: the budget. First of all, I would like to say something about the division between the Secretary of State and me. I look back on the steps we have taken until now and where we are now. I do that in general. I speak on matters of veterans, missions, the situation in Turkey, Iraq and Syria. Then I look forward. I do so on the basis of the following three topics: new areas and threats, NATO and the re-evaluation of the Defence Note. The Secretary of State goes into the results, plans and dilemmas in terms of people, resources and ways. Mr. Chairman. Ever since I took office, I've seen how many times there's been an appeal to the Defense Department. In the Netherlands, but also abroad. I told you before: if something really goes wrong, the phone goes on line four. Then it's up to the Defense Department to find a solution, because eventually, Defense is the end of the escalation ladder. Before the phone rings, we still don't know what it's for. It could be a terrorist threat at Schiphol Airport, as yesterday, fortunately, the false alarm was a plane being shot out of the sky, the MH17, halting a terrorist organization, IS, securing people and buildings at great risk, combating Russian cyberattacks, look at what happened to the OPCW and emergency aid after a devastating hurricane, in the Caribbean or in the Bahamas. We now know that it can all happen and that it has all happened. But before it happened, before that phone rang, we didn't know we were gonna get deployed for that. That's why we need to be prepared for a lot of threats, threats that are imaginable, because we could all possibly imagine these things, but are not predictable and threats that may never happen in the end. You don't know. But if they happen, they'll call the DOD and we'll have to stand there and stand there almost immediately. 'Cause DOD, I just said it at my beginning here... isn't just any ministry. It is ultimately a unique responsibility that is included in the Constitution. I don't know about you, but the fall of the Wall is 30 years ago this weekend. That is also the period I entered the Chamber 30 years ago. After the fall of the Wall it was thought that we could reduce the constitutional task, that the US would give us the protection we need and that that support would scare off all enemies. Now, this weekend, exactly 30 years after the fall of the Wall, we know this is a luxury we can't afford anymore. The world is changing and we have spent too long on the idea that we, the West, will not be attacked because we are invincible. We have lived too long on the brink of the United States. The cabinet sees this and has chosen for the importance and urgency of defence. With the coalition agreement and the Defence Note, 1.5 billion has been added structurally. In the Spring paper, which is now included in the budget, it is EUR 162 million structural. In the first years there is a peak, rising to 461 million in 2024. Over the next 15 years, including occasional money, 3.8 billion will be made available. We come from far, it's difficult, but as I said in my introduction, in advance of my beginning: we're going one step at a time. And that also makes sense if you look at it in a historical perspective. Around the fall of the Wall we have to remember that started the austerity. A few members of the Chamber also said something about it. Back then, we had to realize that.... was our GDP rate 2.7 and we had 211 F-16s, 14 frigates and 913 tanks. While savings were made over the years, the number of active operations in which the Netherlands participated increased significantly. That's a really weird thing. The deployment of Defense also widened, even during more and more cuts. That does something to an organization and it does something to the people. Then, chairman, the part "where are we now, when you look at it like that against this background?'. Much has already been achieved halfway through this cabinet period. I would also like to say this in particular to Mrs Diks, who asked whether the cabinet is passing difficult decisions. No, this cabinet is showing a great deal of decisiveness in securing the future of defence, not only with the additional investments we are making, but also with all the steps we have taken in recent times. Let me give you some examples. We have deployed around 10,000 soldiers or stand by every day, just as we did last night when we were sitting here in the Chamber. We invest in personnel, there is a new collective agreement. I am sure the Secretary of State will say something about that. The AOW hole has been compensated, which was a long-standing wish of your Chamber. We have taken responsibility for this and we have resolved it in our budget. There is wireless internet almost everywhere. Military have ammo to shoot with, can practice more, get new equipment. New material and supplies are pouring in. Helicopters are being modernised. Transport vehicles have been put into service. Fregates and mine hunters are being replaced. We have the first eight F-35 fighters in use in the United States. It's been for a while. The first aircraft arrival in the Netherlands was last week, not on Friday, but on Thursday, as I said to Mr Kerstens. This indicates that we have now taken a step forward. Decisions are in preparation for the replacement of submarines, which the Secretary of State will undoubtedly say a little bit more about, and of important other weapons systems, all in the context of the threat in the world that has changed. So we're already different. We've written down everything we promised to strategies in the Defense Note. We all sent the defence industry strategy, the cyber strategy and the innovation strategy to the Chamber. I also sent the bill on the Defence Equipment Budget Fund to the Chamber. This is also an important step which the Chamber has been discussing for a long time. How can we create more stability? We do that analog to whatever happens at IenW. This indicates that we can stand there more shock-resistantly and with long-term flexibility. It is indeed as Mr Voordewind said. It really improves the information provision to the Chamber we've sent that dummy to you by being more transparent about both the investments, which you can see well, as well as the expenses of those large weapon systems. I look forward, just as the Chamber said by a number of Members of Parliament, to being able to offer the first real budget of the Defence Equipment Budget Fund next year. The only way to do that is if we treat the law with each other quickly. Mr. Chairman. Now I'm going to the adaptive force.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u4	I waited until you were at the end of your first introduction. You indicated that we contest...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u5	The Minister indicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u6	Excuse me. The Minister indicated that we dispute that a great deal is happening in the Defense Department. I certainly don't dispute that. I also see that there is a lot of investment, that there is a lot of activity in the Ministry to, for example, raise stocks and get things done better. I can see that, too. But I also see, and I referred to this in my first term, that a number of major projects are being pushed forward at least. Of course, you know from the Marine Station that we have been waiting a long time for an answer. Not only do we do that, but Marines, municipalities and provinces have been waiting for this for a long time. It's being pushed forward. There are a number of other major projects that are being pushed a little too far. If the Minister wanted to show that determination, I think it is very important to make major decisions in these major projects as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u7	That is what we are going to do, as we have already said to the Chamber. But you asked if we were going to pass difficult decisions. Really, I wrote it down like this and we all heard it like this. We have already had to make difficult decisions, because we have to weigh all the time. As you know, I have said from the beginning that this billion and a half is just a good start to finally get there, against what we face and the changing threat in the world. The Secretary of State will also address the issues you mentioned. We are by no means of moving forward. We're of execution. This is our second truly own budget, you might say. The first was the budget of the previous cabinet. Fortunately, we have been able to adapt a number of things, because with that we have managed to incorporate the 400 million that we have mainly used for support. This is our second truly own budget. As you know, we have made every effort to write a defence note in which we have chosen people, resources and ways to invest people first. That's because it was necessary. With this budget, we could never have done it again. We are taking these steps and also thinking about the future. I'll come back to that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u8	The Minister said in her introduction that we had a difficult debate. I, too, have been struck. I was thinking that night, too. But I also saw that yesterday, not only with me, but with all my colleagues, I think, and in society, more questions arose. More. We may have heard one little dot of the truth from this cabinet. My question to the Minister would be: when is the Minister going to give the first step towards real openness to us, to society, but also to the military, so that we can begin to repair what has gone wrong, but also so that we can carry out our task here on the basis of information? Because I find it very difficult in this way, knowing that we have been lied to and knowing that even the Prime Minister and other former executives involved can all remember nothing in one place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u9	This is about Tuesday night's debate. Yesterday the Members of the House did not discuss it, but this is the first time I have been able to speak again after that debate. At the beginning of my speech, I wanted to state what my experience was. I thought it was crazy to just keep going and stand here. I'm and feel responsible. I made a commitment in your Chamber on Tuesday night. I'll send what I know in your direction. I know questions have been asked by Mrs Diks. Mrs. Diks says they've already come in. We'll answer that. I've indicated how I work from trust. When you start the debate on the budget here, I think it is important to tell myself about my own experience and feeling. That's all I wanted to do. It's not the only thing, but I thought it was important to do it now. I will keep the promise I made. I'll send you the data as promised, if I can find them. I will answer Mrs Diks' questions. What we can open, we will open. You know I'm dealing with the classification of pieces. I saw that in Mrs Diks' questions that I saw on Twitter. Maybe not everything can, but then we'll say it. You can rest assured that I stand for this and that I will indicate it openly, as far as it can be transparent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u10	Not only Mrs Diks, but the entire House of Representatives has questions. I didn't put them in vain yesterday in my term. We cannot proceed to the order of the day. If the Minister says 'I want to restore confidence' and if I ask the Minister whether she can start releasing the data of the other 2.094 bombings deployed by the Netherlands, so that it can be tested and checked on the ground whether that corresponds to the presentation or the idea that the Minister has, could she, first of all, give a positive answer to my question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u11	I told you on Tuesday, I'll see what we can do. I have done so in the direction of the whole Chamber, but I have seen that in the meantime questions from Mrs Diks have come in. I'll look into that and I'll look into it. We'll indicate that in your direction. I can't do that right now. I will respond in a letter to the proposals that I have received from Mr Kerstens, Mrs Karabulut and Mrs Diks on how we can be more transparent with each other. I've promised all of that, and I'll keep those promises. I'll see what can and can't do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u12	If it is correct, if the Minister's story is correct, the question I am now putting to the Minister has nothing to do with classified information. The Minister says: I am the one who provides transparency about civilian casualties; I have changed my policy. Operations are complete. The Minister has released the details of two cases. I would like to know when we can get the other data, because at the moment there is no reason to hide it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u13	I indicated on Tuesday that I will see what I can do and that I will come back to that. That's what I'm doing. But you have to trust me to look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u14	Well, if there isn't one thing, then that's trust. I hope the Minister understands that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u15	I said that myself in the direction of the whole Chamber at the beginning of this speech. I started in my own text in this Chamber saying that I find it rather complicated to just stand here again. In that sense, I had a different feeling than the chairman, who opened the meeting, and said: you are standing there fresh and cheerful. I hope so, but I am not happy, because that is by no means the case. I did try my best to sleep a little better, because that's good to be able to stand fresh. But I am not in any way happy here; otherwise I would not have spoken this text on my own. I'd like to leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u16	Finalizing, Mrs. Karabulut.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u17	In conclusion, Mr President, we will share that. I don't think anyone's happy here. I think we've all tried to sleep well. But I also want to continue to find the truth. The Minister says she can't answer my questions about transparency about the civilian victims right now. I think she will then say: I cannot now answer who knew what at what point, including the role of the Prime Minister. Not only do I have written questions ready, but I had also asked a number of questions in my speech. Can the Minister tell us when she will send an initial reply to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u18	This is from Tuesday's debate; you repeated it yesterday. I said on Tuesday: I will see what I can do about it as soon as possible, and I will do so as soon as possible. I can't tell you when that is right now, because I just need to do some good work on that. The same applies to the questions put by the whole Chamber on Tuesday evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u19	Clear. The Minister is continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u20	Let's see, Mr. Chairman. I had arrived at the next block, adaptive force. We have completed the first phase of the adaptive force, the phase of thinking and making the concept. We are now moving on to phase two, in which we want to develop successful initiatives. We have that idea: constantly developing. Let me give you a few examples. A first example is the exploration of the possibilities to increase sea transport capacity through cooperation with Dutch shipping companies and other maritime partners. There is an interest from NATO and other countries in how the Netherlands does this. I like to see that. In this cooperation there are opportunities for training and encouraging the integration of crews and equipment. We are also looking, as you know, with civil partners at increasing the transport capacity on the road. That started out small, very small even, but it is very likely. In the meantime, it has been scaled up to the second phase, in which several companies participate. This is also in collaboration with the industry organisation Transport and Logistics Netherlands. We have also established the RAS unit, the unit robots and autonomous systems, in the army. In this way, new concepts and innovative opportunities will be tested directly by units in collaboration with civil parties. That is important, because, as a number of Members of your Chamber have said, that is really the way to the future. In line with the findings of the Visitation Committee, we develop and broaden the Plan of Approach Security. After offering the first report of the Visitation Committee, we have chosen not to rewrite, but to develop explicitly and always make improvements, especially with regard to tackling root causes that may lead to insecurity. Mr President, I'm just gonna put my phone down, because there's someone trying to call me. Diversity and inclusiveness are also an important part of our policy. We have actually been in favour of this from the outset, because we sincerely believe that a different military force is really a stronger force. Then it's not about women, it's about people from all other backgrounds, because we have a world to win. We just don't have enough other color in our organization. We actually want to be an attractive employer for all people. We've been betting on that from the start. We also notice that we are taking steps, but actually too small steps. We are also really trying to increase that share, also because, looking at the situation in the labour market, it is important for us to find a way out of it. I still think it's crazy that most of the women... We have seen this in the celebration of 75 years of women in the armed forces. Then you wonder why we should celebrate, but it is an important moment. It is also a time to pay attention to the fact that too few women work with us. In any case, it can be much better in military positions, but it can still be much better on the civilian side as well. A lot of women still think, "Defense, that's not for me, I can't meet those demands." That's a crazy situation. I also recognize from other, previous lives that women think that regularly. But that's too bad. As a result, we really lack a whole lot of the potential that we can just use. Mr. Chairman. Let's talk about the veterans. Recognition, appreciation and care are at the heart of our veteran policy. Fortunately, most veterans are doing well. It is important to say here that most veterans are doing well. I also noticed yesterday that Mr Bosman is always proud to wear his veteran pin in these debates. It's good to see people do that. Research among ISAF veterans shows that ISAF veterans appreciate their current well-being on average with a 7.8. That's really good when you look at that. In addition to regular, accredited care through the Veterans' National Care System, I'm really convinced that that's one of the best systems in the world there are a lot of initiatives to make veterans with PTSS better. In response to Mrs Belhaj's question on special assistance in walk-in homes for veterans, she also raised this point in the legislative consultation................................................................................................................................... Of course, you have to give that a chance. If you're doing something, it should always be time to have a chance. If we start with that at the beginning of the year, I thought I'd let you know a year after it started and whether it really means anything. Then we can see if we can learn from that and take a follow-up step. I saw that the motion tabled in the legislative consultation was adopted on Tuesday. I thought, if we run it like this, we can see if it's having an effect and we can learn something from it for other places. Mr. Kerstens also asked about the walk-in houses. He asked if we could take action at the moment when walk-in homes for veterans get into trouble. As I said earlier, the entry houses are the responsibility of the municipalities. Mr Kerstens agreed with that, because he himself said so in his speech. I have chosen to sit down with the VNG and the Dutch Society of Mayors. We did. I've been there myself, by the way. Then we said: a lot of things are actually going well. There were also private initiatives present in the municipalities, including the initiative which Mr Kerstens himself mentioned a few times in a general discussion. A lot of things are going well, but we might need to know more about each other. We have said that we have to make a kind of hand-off of the VNG together in order to finally indicate to all municipal authorities how important it is to look specifically at the target group of veterans in their congregation. That's what we're talking about, so we actually have something that's in the municipalities. We also follow the situation and have agreed to stay in dialogue with each other. Mr Stoffer asked whether Defence would also support private initiatives with subsidies or how some private initiatives would be better placed at a point of contact. Of course, that is a wonderful goal, but we no longer grant subsidies. That's how we organized it. We have chosen to simplify the whole model. We are working on that governance... Oh, that's not supposed to happen. We're working on control, control. That is better, Mr President; I wanted to say it in English. We are working on a control model that is even better than anything related to veterans' business, veterans' care, to see if that can become clearer and more unambiguous. We also want to provide the grant, which is now often given by the Veteran Institute, from one receiving and far-reaching organisation. In the end, the club can make its own accents and see what initiatives it wants to support. This is how many initiatives are already being supported, as you say. If people can't find that window, I can now say that they can go there. We are still working on simplification. That is where we make the assessment of whether an initiative needs support, but there are a lot of initiatives in this area, including a number of private funded ones. Over the course of these two years, I have noticed that a lot of current soldiers who are also veterans have their own initiatives that they are working on. For example, I saw Willems-Ordebanger Gijs Tuinman with his initiative with horses in a television show last time. So there are a lot of clubs that do something like that and that can also arrange and finance it themselves through the municipalities, through the Fund or otherwise. But it can also be done through the Veteran Institute, which supports some of these initiatives. I usually help these people get to the right window. Still, it is not always certain that there is money, but sometimes they are helped otherwise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u21	I'm glad the Secretary of State has indicated this. It sounds good in itself. I do not know whether this will make it easier or more difficult, but that must tell the future. But very specifically, the Minister states that, if people have an initiative, they must report to the Veterans Institute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u22	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u23	That's the first window.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u24	We ourselves do not provide subsidies. All of that has been abolished. We're not a funding agency. It can sometimes be done through the Veterans Institute and sometimes through the municipalities. So that's diverse. It also depends a little on what the initiative is. I referred some of these initiatives to the Veterans Institute myself, and that is where they end up. But that is basically the question point. I think that's all we've been asked about veterans. I would now like to say a few words about the missions, starting with Mr Van Helvert's question about missions and the question whether Defence can handle them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u25	Another question from Mr Kerstens on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u26	I came out a little slow, Mr. Chairman. Sorry about that. Still, about the Veterans meeting centers. I indicated yesterday that, although I have always wanted to do so, I should like to move away from the request to take responsibility in advance and introduce a generic regime. I also understand why the Minister is not in the mood for this and why she is not in the mood for it. I said that yesterday: then maybe municipalities will sit back, and we don't want to, because they have to get to work. But we have to keep an eye on what we can do, together with municipalities, if it goes wrong in an occasional case, in order to find a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u27	So I've heard. So we were now in agreement on the division of responsibility, which I like in itself. In recent years, we have discussed this issue extensively in the debates on the Veterans' Note, which we always keep separate. I went to check it out, too. You asked me to take a look at several of those walk-in houses. They all have a different form and a different organization. There were even congregations that said to me: please let us do it ourselves. I spoke to Mayor Spies of Alphen aan den Rijn about this. You've got two different veterans' houses there that are about the same name. At De Oude Stomp it was said: we want to do it ourselves, it is ours. I'll look for broadening in the region, because it's kind of weird if you don't do it with multiple municipalities. That's always because of the financing models. They said, "Just let us do customization." I've always given that answer to questions from the Veteran Ombudsman. He said: there must be a financing arrangement. But if you just talk to congregations, what I did and with the Dutch Society of Mayors, you were told: we don't need that, we just want to work well together, we want to have the veterans in the picture. For example, the difficult point is that there is no administration in the basic administration of who is and is not a veteran. That's what a mayor said. It's not that easy to find the people right away. So we said, "Let's help each other there, too." When people are registered at the Veterans Institute, we know them, but not everyone wants to be registered. That's the kind of thing we agreed on. Once in a while, we want to get together, with the VNG. Mrs Criens is ahead of the discussion, because I thought it would be a good idea for someone from the municipalities to do so. Then let's see how it goes. But we have to keep in touch. So I'll see how it goes, in response to your question. We fully agree that this is the way to do it. So, of course, that's what we're doing. But then funding is not always the solution. Sometimes other things are the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u28	You were at the end of your Veterans block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u29	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u30	I think it's okay to look at the Military Disability Pension after all. You indicate...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u31	The Minister says so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u32	In reply to my questions, which have also been asked a few times by the Veteran Ombudsman, the Minister states that we really need to make a much faster effort to take care of the Military Disability Pension. Of course, as an employer, we cannot interfere less with people when they are post-active. You can't do that. That is why I find the written answer a little weak, if I may put it that way. It is indicated that there are additional waiting periods for the assessment of post-active veterans by the ABP Social Medical Research Company. We are also working on this. To be honest, I'd really expect a little more activity. We have a good veteran policy in itself, but it really gets better if we get the story of benefits done faster and better.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u33	We're all in agreement on that. I'm still responding to the Veteran Ombudsman's piece. We'll take our time. We gave you that written answer to indicate that we have taken steps. Mrs Diks herself said something about this. We filled out those medical examiners, but that doesn't mean you've caught up. It's complicated; you know that from every other company. That's when you start catching up. That is really being worked on with man and power, and that is what we are following. The fact that the Veteran Ombudsman's report states that no one should be in trouble is something we had already introduced. You did not ask for this in your first term, but we had already introduced it. No one should get in trouble because there is no medical examiner. Even then, it will be considered whether, as happens in a municipality in the context of assistance, you can provide an emergency facility, so that at least there is an arrangement. We are looking at how we can further implement the Ombudsman's opinions and recommendations; that is what I said. He's been looking at a number of cases. In the end, we all have the same goal in mind. So if you don't find this happening actively... This is in writing, so you have to read that the drive is working on it. I agree with the whole Chamber that this should not be possible. But, yeah, we can't break iron with hands. We had to get those medical examiners first. Steps are now being taken for that purpose. That's how it goes. The next block is about missions. Can we still handle it? That was Mr Van Helvert's question. Whether a mission is feasible or feasible always depends on a large number of things. I have just said something about mission pressure in a general sense. It depends on the mission pressure there is. I put that against the time before thinking about the peace dividend and how much resources and equipment we had then. It depends on the mission pressure, on the duration of the deployment and on the necessary combat support, which is extremely important for the safety of our people. But staffing can also affect missions. The cabinet always discusses this with your Chamber via an article 100 letter. Mr Van Helvert has been the spokesman for defence for so long now that he knows that too. This also applies to the example you mentioned of the Street of Hormuz. If we do anything about it, we will send it to you in an article 100 letter. As you know, we have reported on the readiness of specific units in the confidential annex to the employability report. We cannot do that in public, because that is not good for our security. We also sent this to you in October. Against that background, you need to see if we can handle it. There is always an individual assessment. If there's a question, we'll look into that mission for mission. That's what I've been telling you. We have just sent you the article 100 letter on the mission in Iraq and its extension. This will therefore always be based on military advice from the Commander of the Armed Forces. 'Cause I need to be able to trust that we can do it and that we can keep up with what's being asked. On that basis, I'll make a decision, and I'll put it to the cabinet. So we'll weigh that in the light of what I just outlined to you. Ms Karabulut asked about the Council which spoke about the ongoing mission in Iraq. Mrs Diks asked written questions about this. So I'm looking into that right now. I will involve your question, which you asked yesterday, in answering Mrs Diks' written questions. Mrs Karabulut also asked me to allow a hearing with employees on secret missions. Normally, we simply give permission to attend, but I did indeed inform you on 14 June 2018 not to agree in this case, because you were extensively briefed by my officials on this subject at the Ministry on 21 February 2018. In addition, on 27 March 2018, I gave you a brief public presentation of that confidential briefing by letter. More information on the decision-making of these special and secret operations cannot be provided in public. That is the reason for refusal, and not another reason, because in all other cases our people are always very willing to explain what we are doing. Mr Voordewind asked about the situation in Turkey and Syria. I think that, like him, is a worrying situation. We have already discussed this extensively in plenary in the presence of the Prime Minister. I replaced the Secretary of State at the time. We also discussed it extensively in NATO ministerial. The Netherlands, and myself personally, have actually condemned Turkish action in North-East Syria in all international fora. I myself did so in the NATO ministerial. My colleague from the Foreign Affairs Group, and at the same time my fellow Members, Mr Seligman, we are a joint member of the anti-ISIS coalition, and we stress the need for the Kurds to be involved in finding a political and diplomatic solution to the situation that has arisen. There can be no misunderstanding as far as we are concerned. That is also the complex issue, as I said in the debate with Mr Voordewind, because Turkey is also a participant in the anti-ISIS coalition. You have also tabled a motion for a resolution on this matter. In the NATO meeting, in the spirit of your motion, I spoke directly to Turkey and stressed that unilateral action by any ally should not burden NATO as a collective. You know that these meetings are not public. But after that I was able to say that that was a tough conversation; I can repeat that in your direction. In that sense, there is nothing else I can do about this internal discussion. But we will have to keep pressure on that, bearing in mind the motion adopted in your Chamber. I would like to add something to that. I myself believe that NATO has played an important part in these 70 years of freedom, and then unity is our strongest weapon. Then this kind of thing just can't. Being divided into NATO is not good. You also asked for the proposal from my German colleague, Mrs Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer, who has indeed argued for a security zone in Turkey and Syria under the UN mandate at the NATO meeting and not only outside. I welcomed this proposal and asked you how I reacted to it, and with me, for example, the French colleague. We've said something about that outside. Why am I happy with such a proposal? Because it is important for a European country, and especially Germany, to make such a proposal. As you know, it is not so obvious that Germany is taking this type of initiative. That is therefore extremely important, because we need European answers. Yesterday you were unable to attend the discussion of the RBZ, but I said something about that. Mr Bosman, President, and Mrs Belhaj were present at the general discussion. It is extremely important for a European country to take an initiative. For this reason alone, it is important that this proposal has been made. It is a challenge to achieve it because it requires a mandate. I'm sure you realize that, too. This means that a UN Security Council resolution is needed. We have expressly said that we are open to continuing this discussion, including with Germany, and I have already discussed it with my fellow Member, because it is very important that we ensure stability in that region. We're still in the anti-ISIS coalition. It is very important that these terrorists are no longer present. You can still see them popping up everywhere, and it's true that they still have a lot of money. So it is very important that we do this in unity. The Kurds helped us to do that. It is important that we achieve stability with each other in the region. I don't know if it's gonna work, but we did support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u34	It is positive to hear that the Netherlands has also supported Germany's initiative, supported by France. It is also good to hear that the Minister has raised the two points relating to the Kurds. The Minister cannot say much about it, because that is confidential consultation, but they were NATO's main allies in the fight against ISIS. Can the Minister tell us whether her plea regarding the involvement of the SDC should be limited to this point in the negotiations on the future of Syria? Could that count on sympathy?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u35	I can tell you that. That plea has landed, but now we have to realize it. Each participant, 81 countries, in this anti-ISIS coalition, we belong to the small group, the small group, who talks about it more actively... realizes how important the contribution of the Kurds has been. That is why we said at first: Americans, do not withdraw from Syria! Know what that means! That was step one. And then there was the Turkish raid in Syria. We've seen the consequences of that. It is now important to find a sustainable solution. This can only be done by engaging in dialogue and by ensuring that there is no more violence in that region. It will be a difficult and difficult conversation, but we are fully committed to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u36	That's good to hear from the Minister. The second point concerns the safety zone. There could be support for this, but a UN resolution would have to be adopted. We know that depends on Russia, because it could veto it. How does the Minister estimate that opportunity? It will be coordinated by the Russians with Assad, but I assume Assad can also benefit if the Turks withdraw. So it could be profit for everyone, except for the Turks, but they have caused the misery. So the question is, how does she estimate the probability of this flying? Two. If we have supported this, the Netherlands will undoubtedly be asked whether we are prepared to do something. Is the Minister prepared for that, and what is her response to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u37	On the first question: it will be complicated to do that; I said that. But, of course, we need to talk to the Russians for that. They are also present in that region, as you know, but they might also have an interest in it. We don't know that, but that's the diplomatic conversation that needs to be held first. We're talking to our German colleagues. I'm assuming they do, too, that they picked that up. Then we need to see if we can come to something. In the first instance, of course, this applies to the Germans themselves, because they have to make the proposal there. But we have all realized that that is the chess board you have to play on in order to achieve such a resolution and a mandate in the end. Your second question was how realistic that is. I don't know. It is a very precarious situation; we all know that. We have had a debate here on the situation in Syria in advance. At that time I also outlined to you that the security situation actually changed from one hour to the next. It is not stable now, but you could say that the situation is somewhat normalized. But still it's unsafe, it's a complicated area, et cetera. So it's complicated to do that. But it is also important that there is a solution for the Kurds in the region... No, "solution" is actually a crazy word in this case. It is important that there is a place for them and that we acknowledge that they have done their job. That means that we think that you know that we are so in it that we should do them justice in all the conversations that are there. But it's hard. It's actually an unanswerable question. All we can do is help.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u38	My question had a second part, so this is not an additional question, but I would remind the Minister of the second part of the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u39	Well, it sounds like a fairly new question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u40	I would also have said that the question will undoubtedly be put to the Netherlands, if we go with the Germans and the French and if we consider this important. Then the question will also be asked to the Netherlands, bearing in mind, of course, what we could possibly do when it comes to security mechanisms, as it was called earlier, or the safety zone, as it is now called.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u41	Yeah, it's had a lot of different names now. I don't know. You should always look at that when it is there, because then I just have to see what the question is, what the situation is, whether we can handle it. I have just replied in general terms to Mr Van Helvert's question and how we look at it. Then I'll ask for military advice from the Commander of the Armed Forces. Then we will look at that and then we will talk to you about it, because I have to tell you something about it when it comes to an Article 100 question. I don't know, it could be all kinds of questions. We review Article 100 questions with the framework for that, and then we talk about it. You know all that. I would not really like to answer this question as a question of dance, because that is difficult to say. But every question that comes to us, as you know, we look seriously. I'll say yes if we can and no if we can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u42	I just heard the minister say that ISIS, Daesh, has a lot of money and weapons. There are also sounds that they sell oil. How can they, while the US and many other countries are there with their intelligence and all their equipment, still be able to sell so much oil or have so much money and military equipment? How is that possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u43	I can't answer this question right now. I can't say anything about anyone's intelligence positions in this Chamber; you know that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u44	Isn't it strange that such an organization that sows terror can deal with millions and perhaps billions? Is there something we shouldn't know? On the other hand, I cannot imagine that great powers such as Russia, America, the Netherlands and other countries are there and that this organisation can still get away with so much oil sales. How can it be that the Netherlands is apparently not committed to preventing them from getting that money? What are we doing as the Netherlands to prevent Daesh from getting money?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u45	This is not our job at all. What we do as the Netherlands is fight against IS. We do so in a coalition of 81 countries with a core group of 13 countries. It is very important to combat this pernicious terrorism, because things are going on in that region. That's what we're working on with man and power. I really can't tell you anything about intelligence and intelligence positions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u46	You can fight IS or Daesh by throwing bombs, but you can also fight them by making income impossible. At the moment when such an organization cannot sell oil, can't get money and can't get weapons, she can't get anything. You say: we are fighting IS. Apparently, you're not doing the right fight. The moment they still get guns and money, you can't fight them. What exactly is the Netherlands doing to prevent them from selling oil, to prevent them from getting money? Then you fight a terrorist organization like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u47	The fact that they have money is, of course, one of the things that is being fought. Mr Öztürk now assumes that we are doing things or not, but I simply cannot tell him about them. I am not saying anything about what we are doing there, whether on the basis of information or not. We simply cannot say anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u48	Rounding off, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u49	Yes. That's a little easy: "I can't say anything." We haven't done that in four and a half years, and that has had effects. So that's too easy. Surely you can say: we are going to commit ourselves to the fact that IS does not sell oil, so that IS and Daesh cannot buy weapons to kill people? You could say that, couldn't you? Surely you can say: we are going to commit ourselves to this? You can't tell me: we're just throwing bombs and that's all? I mean, this is really too easy, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u50	We do everything we can to combat ISIS, in all kinds of ways. But if you want to fight them, you shouldn't say anything about the methods you're fighting them with. That's what I'm saying. That's not easy at all. I am also far removed from what Mr Öztürk sketches. Quite different from the beginning of my story, this is about gathering intelligence. I am now responsible for this in two ways: as Minister of Defence and as Minister for AIVD. We do not say anything about that, Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u51	You're continuing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u52	As I have announced, I look forward to the new areas of threat, NATO and the re-evaluation of the Defence Note. Those are the three points I still have to take care of. Given what I said at the beginning, we still have a lot of problems to solve. But we also need to look forward. And it has to be because the world has changed. We were just discussing this in a debate. The entire immediate security environment is more unstable, the relationship with Russia has deteriorated and potential opponents have technologically high-quality material, so we do not just have a preponderance. Meanwhile, there is a growing demand for defence in the context of national tasks, which I have already mentioned. Last night we experienced that ourselves. Then there are new things we need to keep an eye on and take into account. Mr Bosman and Mrs Belhaj cited space and the cyber and information domain, even though we had not heard from each other yesterday, I believe. I agree with Mrs Belhaj and Mr Bosman that the importance of military use of space, which was actually their approach, has increased rapidly. That is why Defence has been investing in knowledge and development in the field of military use of space for years. This is also enshrined in this spring's mission space of the renewed top sectors policy of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy. I think it would be a good idea to realize that. Following the space policy adopted by NATO, we are working on a space strategy. So that's what we're doing right now. I intend to send it to the Chamber next year. I will see if I can indicate in the second term whether that is in spring, because that would offer more opportunities to deal with each other. I had that in my head, but I see that on paper it says "next year." In the second term, I'll see when that's about. I very much agree with your members, Mr President, that there is actually a very rapid development of the cyber and information domain and that space, which I was just talking about, is the new domain. Mr Bosman was right to ask. How are you supposed to look at that? He said sometimes it's a little uncomfortable when it comes to attacking. International law also applies to that cyber domain. That is the reality: that it applies. An international mandate and a proportionate use of the military force are therefore also key elements in cyber operations, if we were to operate in this area. That doesn't make us unnecessarily vulnerable. That was what you assumed, but I don't think so. You have to have rules. Even if it's a new form of warfare, you have to have rules. Because the cabinet wants to address cyber-attackers on their behaviour, I think it is crucial that the Netherlands itself follows current international law. If you want to address a perpetrator, you're gonna have to stick to it yourself. But with an active policy of attribution and appealing, we are scaring countries that do not care about international law. That's the strategy we have now. It has been said that we need to think further about this. This is happening, including in the international context and also in the legal sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u53	This is a tricky domain. The Minister says that we use rules to deter others from using possible non-ethical ways. There is the problem for me: the domain of knowledge acquisition in the cyber world is a very different domain than knowledge acquisition in the physical world. But that does mean that you have to be present somewhere in a way that we haven't actually talked about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u54	That's for sure. I have heard Mr Bosman say that; that is the difficult question. This is about surgery. I have given my answer on the basis of cyber operations, so to make it clear to your Chamber but just as clear, on the basis of the deployment of cyber soldiers. I didn't talk about Wiv-related cases here. I'd like to make that distinction. I'm talking cyber operations, for which we're talking Defense Cyber Command. You know that the Netherlands was one of the first countries to offer cyber-soldiers to NATO. I know that this has your full support, because you and your then colleague Mrs Bruins Slot said that we should also be able to do offensive things. If we do that, we must abide by international law. So that's what I'm talking about. Then it is also about proportionality; you know the weighting. If we do not stick to that, we will be unnecessarily vulnerable, because we do want to address others. That's the point. That is also the dilemma, as you yourself outlined: we would like to address others. So that's what we do. We adhere to current international law. You now assume that we are deterred by following rules. That is not so; that was not my reasoning. I have said that we must abide by the rules because we want to appeal to others who do not follow the rules. It's always complicated to talk to someone else who doesn't follow the rules if you don't follow the rules yourself. So what we are doing is exposing operations by talking about them and by showing the attribution by allowing us to attribute independently but also with others in different varying coalitions that someone does and that people do not follow the rules. So your connection to my story wasn't correct. I am just trying to point out that if we stick to the rules in our own cyber operations, we will be stronger to appeal to others who do not follow the rules. Then the question remains as to how sustainable this is for the future. That's a question you're asking yourself. This is a whole new domain. There are also a lot of conferences on this domain in the area of international law and so on. I think that the reasoning we have ourselves is really good now, but we must continue to think about the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u55	It's always hard when you talk about operations, because when you think about operations in the physical realm, you think about a group of people going somewhere. But in the cyber domain, sometimes it's also a bit of running around in the computers and in the computer world in other continents, in other systems. Is that offensive, then? Or is that defensive? How do we prevent an attack in the Netherlands but are we present in other countries? That's the discussion. You limit yourself when you make the rules and say, "You can't do that." I'm looking for what that limitation might be or shouldn't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u56	We're just sticking to international law. You actually want me to say something about the nature of the operations, if I understand correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u57	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u58	No? Of course, I can never do that. You know that better than anyone, I'd say. So we're sticking to international law. We think, and I think so too, that we are stronger to address others and to attribute. I also think it is important to make that attribute public at a number of times. I think that also makes the whole awareness of what is happening better. Of course, there is quite a lot of naivety, also in this domain; I have said that before. We need to move away from naivety in this domain and see what is happening with each other. When we made public the possible hacking of the OPCW, the chemical weapons control organisation, that was either an operation under the Wiv. I noticed that society became more aware of this happening, of what it does and of what influences it does. It's about the effects of influence. Think of influence on such a research on chemical weapons, influence on elections, all of which has become public and influence by the Russians on the anti-doping agency for the Olympic Games; of which there were data. This means that the domain of influence works differently. Hacking is also a domain with which you wage war. The awareness in the Netherlands is really not big enough yet. For our operations, we now adhere to international law. It has to be, but that is also the only way to really appeal to others and to be able to attribute. We are, of course, actually following what is happening and also seeing whether we should not take this debate one step further together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u59	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u60	Let's see. Then we had one more question on this piece from...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u61	Mrs. Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u62	A new domain, new challenges. I actually had a very specific question in addition to that. Because if you want to be able to address that in time, you also have to make sure that you are on time for the investments that are needed to deal with it properly. It is now the case that at the end of November there will be the ministerial conference in which ESA funds, the European Space Agency funds, will, as it were, be discussed again. Mr Amhaouch's motion for a resolution has already given some credit to EZK, but of course that also has a major impact on the defence sector. Now I would be so sorry if the Netherlands missed its chance to make an investment in it for three years. It does work that way that you put something in it, but get the equivalent in return. I realize it's a very short day, but in the next three weeks, do you have 15 million for the next three years? I thought: I ask the question very uninhibited. Perhaps the Minister says: yes, that's right, I have something else. Then that would be nice. I'm saying it a little funny, but I'm serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u63	I get the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u64	I know it's hard, but I'm kind of sorry we missed that opportunity. Perhaps you can mention something that is possible now, or at least with the Defence Review Note for the subsequent periods.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u65	In this review paper from the Defense Department, we are looking at the future in these areas anyway. I have already said something about this and I shall come back to it in a moment. I can't judge this right now. Let me take a look at your specific point. I had arrived at Mrs Diks' question in this block, and I still have NATO and that review. Mrs. Diks mentioned the use of fake news. Here too, we as Defence always act within the law and mandate. Information can indeed be used as a weapon. That's what's gonna happen. I have just given you an example of this. Misdirection of the enemy is, by the way, a classic form of military engagement. The aim is to influence an enemy with information within the applicable laws and regulations. In this way, we may be able to prevent the deployment of weapons. This was done in the classic sense. Thus information could also lead to fewer unnecessary victims. But we are just acting within the law and the mandate. Then I come to NATO and the re-evaluation of the Defence Note. I'll start with NATO.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u66	I do have one comment on the previous point, on the fake news. Of course spreading propaganda or otherwise confusing people to organize destabilization is something from the ancient box. I even think it was used in the Stone Age. But spreading fake news is, of course, something completely different. You are putting that in the same category now, but I honestly see that as something else. If we are fighting against the spread of fake news in the Netherlands, it cannot of course be that our Defense will then use fake news in other countries to ensure destabilization there. I would really object to that. I would also like you either to say a little more about this or to send us a letter in which you will work it out a little further. Because this is really something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u67	I didn't say we were spreading fake news. I said information could be used as a weapon. In that sense, I have said so. I said before that that we always act within the law and the mandate. We're also fighting fake news. We're trying to figure out what's going on. The influence of the U.S. elections by sending out the wrong news is one of those things that came out on the basis of our information. We made that public. You have to make a difference between wartime and peacetime. Luckily, we don't have a war here. That is what I started my story on the budget. It is precisely in the year we celebrate 75 years of freedom that we should be very happy about that. But you have to prepare yourself for what's going on. You have to follow it and see what you can and should do with it, without doing anything with it now. We are just following the law and the mandate we have.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u68	Of course, I should have prepared for that. In the newspaper or on the radio, a DOD employee said: I think it's good to see if we can spread fake news as well. I didn't assume you said that yourself, but it was one of the people in the Defense Department who said it. I forgot the name. That's why I think it's good that you come back to it, maybe in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u69	I will do so in the second term, because just as you cannot remember that message, neither can I. I'll see what has been said and whether it's someone who's still working with us or not. I do not think there is any point in speculating about it, because then I will give you an answer that may be entirely beside the text. I have no idea, and neither do you now. Then we'll pick that up by taking a look at it. I think that's better. Otherwise, we are not dealing with the facts ourselves, and that is precisely what you were trying to prevent. I would have stayed with NATO. Then I'll come to the recalibrate. NATO. Maybe we need a transition or a bridge to the next domain. I explained that space and cyber are new domains and tools that we need to do together. We're working on that. I've indicated how we're looking at that. We must be prepared as a defence and as a country for this kind of threat. Fortunately, this is also a point we are discussing with NATO. Fortunately, we are part of the NATO alliance and we are not alone responsible for security. It also applies to other subjects, but we can never do so on our own, as regards this subject, the security of our country. In order to protect security together, our forces must be strengthened. There's no misunderstanding about that. We need to be more employable and we need to be able to last longer. We have written that down in our budget, and I have spoken to the Chamber on a number of occasions about it. We must also be able to be sure of each other as allies. That is the answer I just gave to Mr Voordewind. I indicated how complicated the discussion about Turkey was, which we had in NATO ministerial. From reports from the US and from Turkey's actions, I have real concerns about that certainty and about being able to rely on each other. Where until recently we were blindly relying on NATO and the US, we now see the facts that you can ask questions about it. That's really not good. You know, unity is our strongest weapon. I say that a lot. I do not want to deny that in the Chamber and I just want to say on my own that it is difficult. We must address each other in NATO, because we do not have an internal sanction mechanism, such as the EU. This is what we can do, and we have to do it. Mr Stoffer gave Turkey's example when discussing the Dutch contribution to NATO. It is important that we address each other in such a context with more countries. You set the example of Turkey in relation to itself investing more. You argued that you should address each other, but that you should probably also contribute more to NATO, just for your own security. If we are in NATO together for our security, that is the only thing we can do; we can only stand together for the defence of our country and of the alliance, then you are absolutely right that the European countries should take more responsibility for their own security. The Netherlands also has to deliver a fair share that is what I call it. I will give this to Mr Stoffer, who is right to comment on the Dutch GDP rate which is falling again after 2022. Only if we all keep our end of the bargain can we deal with the threats. I have just said something about this in the operational sense, but that also applies in the financial sense. The aim is to do so in conjunction with all NATO countries, including Turkey, I would add. Turkey is an essential ally for NATO, but we must also discuss it critically. Unilateral actions by any ally must therefore always be condemned; or rather, they must not burden the collective. To take our responsibility towards our allies, it is clear that further steps are needed. We haven't made a secret of that from the beginning. I have just said something about this in my own more personal introduction to the debate. I don't think you were there at the time. But we've realized that since day one. The Netherlands must invest in Defence in order to remain safe and to protect the Netherlands. There are still many steps to be taken. Shall I complete the NATO block, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u70	Yeah, this was kind of Mr. Stoffer's point, so I don't know if you...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u71	Mr. Stoffer had another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u72	Then we'll wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u73	I'll be done with the NATO block in a minute. At the beginning of December is NATO's Leaders Meeting. Mr Van Helvert and Mr Stoffer asked about this. Of course, you will receive the annotated agenda of the Cabinet prior to the Leaders Meeting. The Prime Minister will be showing the state of play of our national plan at the NATO Leaders Meeting. This spring, the cabinet again invested in Defense to carry out the first step of the national plan we submitted last year. Mr Stoffer very much supported that. That's what we're doing now. In that first step are the nine F-35s. In the NATO plan, there are just 15 F-35s. So the other one still needs to be able to get that third squadron. That is what we have provided in our NATO plan. But we can't finance those F-35s right now, so that's another step. At the Leaders Meeting, the Netherlands is expected to receive the necessary criticism not only from the US, but from all NATO partners about the remaining defence expenditure. You have seen in the states that we simply have in our budget that instead of five from below we are now in place four from below. I would like to reply to questions from Mr Van Helvert and Mrs Karabulut about the fair story behind the 2% NATO standard. We're gonna need follow-up. I have always said that the current figures do not make it. Follow-up steps are needed to reach that 2%. That's obvious. The Netherlands wants to be a reliable ally. I think that's more important than ever. Looking at the changing security situation, NATO expects the Netherlands as a rich country, because that is it, to finally meet the commitments we made as allies with each other in 2014. You know our signature's underneath, too. In this case, that's our Prime Minister's signature. It is clear that we are far from achieving that. We'll just make that clear with the facts. I've always kept the honest story. When the cabinet decides on the spending of additional financial resources, a balance will be struck against the various other priorities. You have all followed the priorities in the last few weeks. I see the demonstrations coming from our department. So that means steps are needed. For this period there is the 5.5 billion. In this budget we have that 3.8 billion to 2034, if you combine occasionally and structurally. That's a real extra follow-up. There we finance the nine F-35s, the special forces, the information-driven actions and cyber. That's what we can do now. We will therefore have to go step by step towards improvements, but we will not be able to make this contribution. That will therefore also be discussed. We do not do that because it is a dogma, Mr President. As Mr Bosman has said, it is all supported by us in our NATO plan, but also by NATO, with the capacity to defend Europe, but also our country. At the moment that is simply not enough. That is the reality. If you can do it by 1.8%, it's fine. We don't care about that at all. The point is that we are there on the basis of the assumptions made by NATO. That's the NATO block, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u74	That was a lot of words, beautiful words, but ultimately it's about actions. The German colleague of this minister says: 'I also saw it in a Twitter message 'that in 2024 we are not achieving that 2%, but that in 2024 we are at 1.5% and in 2031 we are at 2%. If our minister is going to be in NATO again and everyone is going to be treated like this, as I imagine, I am very curious. Then the German colleague says what I have just said and what is the answer, the dot on the horizon, of our minister? Keep saying that we want to, but that we can't do it, it's also very difficult to talk to other colleagues about other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u75	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u76	So I'm very curious. When Mr. Trump speaks to our minister and asks where her year is with that 2%, what is the answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u77	At the moment, we do not have the answer. It is not Mr Trump, nor is it my German colleague sitting in the chair. We'll be there, but behind the chair. It is our prime minister who sits in the chair, just like Mrs Merkel sits in the chair. I haven't seen the tweets in the last few days. I'm not much of a Twitter follower at all. But Mrs Kramp-Karrenbauer, of course, simply said that. It is also in the German documents that they have indicated. The German Government and Mrs Merkel, on behalf of the government, have also said that 'about the European average in 2024'. The Netherlands is still quite far below that. We have talked about this in the Chamber before. The German Government now indicates that it is at 2% with 2030, i.e. 1 January 2031. We don't have that kind of answer. We have simply sent the re-evaluation of our NATO figures to NATO at the moment. Those are the figures in our budget. I can see that in addition to what was in the coalition agreement, the 5.5 billion and the 1.5 billion structuralally in our budget, we now have extra money in our budget. It's about 3.8 billion incidentals until 2034. Of these, 162 million is structural money. So that's what we're doing for the things we don't have. But we simply do not yet have a credible path, as it is called in NATO terms, to the 2%.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u78	I find this rather embarrassing, a minister and a prime minister who keep saying: we are going to that 2%. But there's no year to go with it. Why doesn't the Minister or this cabinet just say: 2031 we're on that 2%?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u79	That's one of the things we're going to look forward to with the refocusing of the Defence Note. We need to show where we stand in the future, in the longer term. That's what it says in the Defence Note. So we have already taken an additional step rather than the re-evaluation of the Defence Note, because in the spring note we have part of our NATO plan... It is good to realise that the NATO plan and the capabilities we have chosen are really well treated and judged by NATO. Because we have focused on capabilities that are important: the F-35, the special forces and firepower. We can't finance that right now, but we can finance the information-driven action and cyber. These are the domains that the Netherlands is good at. The Netherlands is good in these domains and also in the information-driven action. NATO is asking for more of us there. So we invest in the good skills. In addition to extra money, we have a good investment quota. That too is an element of NATO's assessment. We are in excess of 20%, which is 23%. This is also assessed positively. The stakes are also assessed positively. In NATO terms, it is about cash, capacity and commitment. Our commitments are also well judged. We do not have such a path. We have to deal with the facts. The facts are that we are taking another step in this budget, but not enough to reach the 2%.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u80	My final question about this. So I understand it as follows: we are going to go to 2%, but it is still a question of when we can add a year to it when we get there. My question then is: when is the time when we are going to fill in that year?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u81	When reviewing the Defence Note, we will first indicate how we look at the future in long-term terms. That's my finishing block. There, therefore, we will have to look much more closely at how and when we will be able to finance parts. That it goes one step at a time is also clear, but that is what we have in mind. You must also always set off an investment against what you have to do in the future and how you stand against the threat. That comes back for the first time in the review of the Defence Note. You know that large-scale financing usually comes with new formations, but we already have an extra step. That is quite special, because a year ago, of course, we could not have imagined that we could have financed some of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u82	Just a check, Mr. Chairman. So I understand that the Minister says: in this cabinet period, there is no longer a year in which we are out of 2%.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u83	In any case, in fact, we're not gonna make it to 2024. I cannot tell you now about the steps we are taking in the meantime to next year. However, I can say that we support it with content and that you need to see it in a broader perspective: cash, commitment and capacity. The Netherlands is doing really well on the latter two. On the first, cash, we have really taken another big step in this budget. Is that enough? You and I agree that it is not enough to meet our obligations. That's why I built my story the way I built it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u84	I have no further question, but I conclude that the answer will not come during this cabinet period. I find that really embarrassing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u85	We know that NATO is in crisis. The Minister admits that Turkey is problematic, very problematic. President Trump isn't doing well either. Macron just declared NATO brain-dead. So I was wondering if the Prime Minister might bury NATO in December, also recognising that the 2% standard is not in the budget and is not going to be reached at all during this cabinet period. Is the Minister prepared to officially release the 2% NATO standard so that there is room for real security?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u86	The answer to that is no. I'm intrinsically convinced, not because it's a standard but because there's a foundation under the standard that matches the threats we're seeing in the world today. That standard didn't just happen. It came just for our safety. That is where you and I are simply different from opinion and perhaps also from world view. But I'm really convinced that standard has been backed up with facts about the threat picture in the world. I'm not optimistic about the threats in the world right now. In fact, if you look at what's going on, that's what I've been saying in my story, too, then there's a lot of threat from Russia. Turkey and Syria are worrying. It is all borders of Europe that are at stake here. We ourselves are not now able to defend ourselves against that threat. That will not be the case in the future either, because it can always be together. This means that we must be a reliable ally. Our prime minister's signature is underneath. We will not let go of this endeavour, because in an alliance you must stick to what you have agreed. That does mean it goes one step at a time. It's backed up with content. It is important to say that, if you see that threat in the world, it is no different that we need to invest extra in defence to the future in order to remain safe, including in the new areas we have just talked about. I do not think it is so self-evident today that we are free and can simply say what we want to say. We can also disagree if we want to. We stand up for that on a daily basis. Additional investments will therefore have to be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u87	I'm really sorry about this. This is pure ostrich politics, isn't it? Speaking of freedom, there are currently unreliable allies within NATO and NATO's actions as a global police officer, in which permanent wars are waged, creating a breeding ground for terrorism, which naturally also moves towards us. In the face of the fact that all kinds of large countries also recognise that this institution is outdated, can the Minister not think that she wants to continue to follow it blindly? Instead, she should say: we're not going to talk about what we're not going to do anymore, but we're going to look at what's going on, and on that basis we're going to make our own analysis instead of going behind Erdogan, Trump and Bin Salman, and that's where allies of the band continue to walk and pump into a strategy and a security policy that we've seen and know only brings more insecurity. Is the Minister at least willing to investigate alternatives, alternative security structures, alternative security architecture?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u88	I really disagree fundamentally with what Mrs Karabulut said. I am not prepared to do that either, because I believe that the Atlantic Alliance is our security structure. That is the cornerstone of our security policy. Furthermore, our NATO plan is backed up by capabilities that are important for our security policy. I've talked to the Chamber about that in detail. This was widely supported in the Chamber. The reality is that we cannot yet fully finance all of this. The fact that we are taking an additional step in this budget is also the reality: 3.8 billion to 2034. That's what we do. That's one step at a time. That is not enough, but incredibly relevant when you look at the threat that exists today in the world. So I have a fundamentally different world view from Mrs Karabulut. We are heading for finally getting there, because it is based on content.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u89	When I hear the discussion like this, I taste a bit of the tone that I also taste in the budget: as if that 2% is imposed on us by someone else, by a Trump or a Merkel or Johnson. Does the Minister agree with me that this is also our own idea, not because 2% has to, but because our army, our military force, simply needs a lot of money for supplies, for personnel, for equipment, for real estate, for ICT, because we need to raise Defense to the minimum we want? Does the Minister agree with me or does she see this as an obligation imposed on the Netherlands from outside?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u90	I fully agree with Mr Van Helvert. I have just said that we need to be intrinsically motivated here to stand in front of today's threat. What is stated in our NATO plan, but also in view of NATO's demand for 2%, is supported by all capacities, which are more than necessary in view of the threat in the world. I have not said anything here in this Chamber, but also outside it, for nothing: at the moment we as a country are simply incapable of defending ourselves. That's just reality. We can do a number of things, but we're not able to do it all ourselves. We can only be in an alliance and in the alliance that underpins agreements with content. I'm not motivated to do that because Trump says something or because someone else says something, I've been motivated from the start because I'm really worried about the threat in the world. If unity is your most important weapon in NATO, then it's worrying what's happening now. If unity is your most important weapon, you must also take steps step by step. About that we can only do this step by step and about our figures I have always been very open. I've always sent the states to you and I don't like it. The Prime Minister has submitted our NATO plan to the Secretary-General. That's the method. We will really get it on this part in December. We realize together that we still need to take steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u91	I am very pleased with the Minister's intrinsic motivation, but I would also like to see it reflected in the budget. We see in the budget that steps are being taken, but we do not really need steps, but very substantial investments. Shouldn't this budget be heading in the direction of this review already this year: dear people of the Netherlands, dear fellow ministers, dear Members of Parliament, pay attention, we need to take very, very large financial steps? A Dutchman does not have to pay €1.75 per day for his safety, but €2.50 per day. It should not be 162 million, but a number of billions will have to be added after the review. I do not see that warning in the budget either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u92	I agree it has to be worth something to us. Safety must be worth something to us. That is what we have very clearly written down in the policy part of our text. It was precisely in the year we celebrate 75 years of freedom that I liked the fact that Mr Bosman, just like last year, started with Terneuzen.................................................................................................................................................. You have indicated that we are now spending €1.75, but that should be €2.50. That is the reality. I really liked that. Our budget is not the biggest budget there is either. Our whole budget, I have said it before, so I dare say it again here, is equal to the extra money spent on care every year. Our people are not allowed to strike because they are ready for your and my safety on a daily basis. It's a legal arrangement. That's gotta be worth something to us. I'd also prefer a strike for this money for Defense... We need to realize that more money is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u93	We also agree on this. But how does this relate to the words that the Prime Minister says exactly when the Minister of Finance, in the place where you are now standing, defends the government budget? The cabinet agrees: we give this amount to the Defense Department. It could have been more from the CDA, but we're meeting in the coalition: this is the amount we're going to give more than before. At the moment when the Minister of Finance is doing so here, the Prime Minister says: there must be more to Defence. How am I supposed to weigh those words? Where do we see that in this budget? Or is that gonna happen next year with that recalibrate? Is the Prime Minister going to transfer those billions to the Defense Department?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u94	Mr Van Helvert is not holding a debate here with the Prime Minister. It's up to the Prime Minister himself to say this. What I can show you is that this year we're investing extra in Defense. That it's not enough is the facts. That is also what we have indicated to NATO. We had to report this year's figures on 31 October. We turned it in. This will be discussed at the Leaders Meeting in early December. We'll take another step. At any rate, when we recommended it, we could not have thought that we would take another step after a year. We had based our plans on the approximately 5.5 billion for this cabinet period. That's what our budget and our Defence Note are based on. In this budget, as you know, the F-35s, the IGOs, the special forces will be added to that. The IGO is the information-driven action; sorry about the abbreviation, Chairman. That's what we at Defense are very good at, in afko's. That is the extra step we are taking. That is the reality. At the request of Mr Stoffer and your predecessor, Mrs Bruins Slot, supported by the Chamber, we must draw up long lines for the future when reviewing the Defence Memorandum. I can only think about the future in this area in long-term terms, not even because of the justification of the capacities. In addition, we have the points about which the Secretary of State is going to say something: the state of the real estate, our information; all these things need to be resolved. That is the reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u95	I understand that, too. Finally, let me zoom in on this point. The cabinet speaks with one mouth. So basically, if the Prime Minister says anything...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u96	In the room!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u97	In the Chamber, it's a good thing you mention it. You then sit together with ministers and say: the cabinet line is 2%; that is very important as a cabinet. Then, as a minister, you will get billions too little to implement that cabinet policy. We're not gonna make it. Then the Prime Minister says: we have to spend more; by the way, we have 12 billion left over from last year's budget. So how does it go at a ministerial meeting like this? Is the Minister prepared to put that intrinsic motivation down there and say: towards recalibratement, there should be no steps, not the 162 million, but steps, billions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u98	Sure. For me, the NATO plan we have made is the basis. The letter was sent by the Prime Minister on behalf of the Council of Ministers. It's a good thing you realize that. What we have surrendered to NATO has been passed through the Council of Ministers. We can only fill in part of that now, because we always have to weigh it against all kinds of other interests. That is also the task of the Council of Ministers. That was the end of 2018. I myself thought it very nice that we are now taking another step in this budget. That is not self-evident either. You must also realise this: there is an additional 3.8 billion up to 2034, for a large part incidental, but also for a part structural. It is only a start to the NATO plan that we can continue to finance. We also have all the other problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u99	I think this is a wonderful debate. That's a good thing. It seems as if a Member of Parliament says to the Minister: but you, or the Prime Minister, can make sure that 10 billion a year is added, and why don't you take care of it? What I find completely hilarious or beautiful is that a CDA chamber member to the minister, who is of course all of us but has a CDA background, asks: can the minister not make sure that that money is settled in the ministerial council? I would like to ask the Minister, through you, President, if she agrees with me that this is always done by boss CDA, boss D66, boss VVD and boss ChristenUnion. They sit together, and then they say, for example, well, we would like more education, or we would like a little more in the field of defence. Then there is a blow, and then it comes to the ministers, who, of course, have indicated in the first instance: I would like more money. If you're lucky, you'll be there. Do you agree with me that this is how it works, and not, as it seemed, as if you were the one who could make sure that the 10 billion a year is settled?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u100	Budget law is not at all with the Council of Ministers. So I thought it was a wonderful discussion for another reason. I've been a Member of Parliament for a long time, as you know. Budget law is just in the Chamber. Mr Stoffer was right about that when he said last year that it was in the Chamber. However, I would like to make a very serious point: I do not agree with you in this respect. The Council of Ministers decides and the Chamber controls. We have to keep it purely state law. I began my speech by pointing out that, against a very different background, I attach myself to that constitutional side. I have made a note of this, looking at the debate on Tuesday evening. But it is true that the Council of Ministers is doing this and that your Chamber can check. You are talking about 'the boss of D66', which I find interesting for liberals, but we ourselves have more of the constitutional side, and that is that we are making proposals, which you then judge, where budget law really lies with the Chamber. You can do whatever you want to do with that. The cabinet has to deal with that once it has been judged. So let's keep it that way. It is also clear that there is always a need for a great deal of consultation in a cabinet with four parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u101	The budget law therefore means that the part about money, so if money is to be distributed, lies with the Chamber. Of course, the power to fill in the various portfolios lies with the cabinet. So Mr. Van Helvert is himself talking about whether to add 10 billion a year next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u102	And you, too. It's very important to keep those roles apart. It is not a good point either, because this is a serious matter. Mr Van Helvert's initial question was: is that 2% something you see hanging from the outside, or is it something that is substantiated? It's something well-founded based on content. It's based on content-based looking at capacity, but also at the threat picture in the world. The threat picture in the world hasn't gotten any better today. We've already talked about Syria and otherwise. Against this background, I am intrinsically motivated for additional investment and we are taking another step in this budget in relation to what was in the government agreement, which is the subject of this bosses discussion. That's not enough. That's what we're showing with the states. And that comes in the long lines.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u103	It's a good thing it's clear. That is why our group chairman, the chairman of the CDA, and the boss of D66 and all the other group chairmen, agree on how we will distribute budgets. On that basis, you can see that a cabinet also makes a proposal. My point was that the Minister of Finance is standing here with that proposal, that he defends here in the Chamber on behalf of the cabinet, that is to say also on behalf of the Minister of Defence, while the Prime Minister says that there must be money. I'll see a discussion in that cabinet. I'm curious about that. My point was not either: we must make this appointment by the boss of D66 with the group chairman of the CDA and all the other group chairmen this year. 'Cause that deal's on, and we have to stick to it. My question was whether it would not be wise, with a view to the re-examination after next year, which looks further after the agreements, to make such a warning quite clear, in the sense of: if we do not take substantial steps in the future, then... That was my point. I can see that the Minister agrees with me. I'm very happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u104	That's clear. We have also indicated this in the policy part of our budget. Further steps need to be taken. I have all mentioned the reasons, so I am not going to repeat them again, and that is precisely what we have done in the context of those 75 years of freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u105	Mrs. Belhaj, just a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u106	Before it leads its own lives: I mean the groups of all the different political parties rather than the "boss of" different political parties of the coalition. That has been corrected.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u107	Yeah, but we'll remember him. The Minister has one last block to go.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u108	We'd already gotten to the recalibrate, so I'll finish that soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u109	But I just wanted to suspend for a few minutes, because I was asked to wash my hands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u110	Oh, I can do it in one, two minutes. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u111	Two minutes? I'm fine. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u112	We were at the recalibrate, those long lines to the future. Several Members of Parliament have spoken about this. We're working on that. That will be a vision that looks forward 15 years, which describes the developments that we have just discussed in the debate and what defence demands, and which includes a strategy for how to get there from now on. In recent years, our first primary task, the protection of our own and the alliance territory, to which we have bowed, has become increasingly important. You can see that the importance of the other two main tasks has also increased. In that vision we look at the Netherlands itself, at what we need. We are also looking at the contribution of the Netherlands to the alliance and the European Union. NATO remains the cornerstone of our policy. The Defence Vision note will therefore have to contain a realistic growth path to meet all the priorities of the national plan and the other NATO capabilities and objectives. In doing so, we must pay attention to finding a balance between fighting power and investment in, for example, real estate, IT and replenishing stocks. Those are the points the Secretary of State is going to talk about. That's how we do it. We must look to the future. We'll do that together, because I promised it to the Chamber last year. We do that in society to raise awareness. We're organizing recalibrate meetings. The MPs were also invited. Some of your MPs have been there. Finally, Mr President. In this sense, much will happen in 2020, looking at the current budget. We will continue to work on staff policy, including modernising the pay system and further promoting social and physical security, which we really invest in. We can look forward to new equipment, from new equipment and helmets to the Reaper, by you. We will send you a vision in which I look forward to what Defence needs and to the steps that need to be taken. There is a great NATO exercise, Defender, which deals with military mobility and where the Netherlands is the leading country. It is also a year that is my final word, in which we consider what our liberators have meant, what that has cost and what the value of freedom is. It will be a year in which we can raise awareness of the fact that we are free. We show what that means today by pointing out that our people are committed to freedom and security throughout the world, and by organising the Invictus Games in the Netherlands. There we are paying particular attention to the sacrifices that our people, as well as those from all the countries around the world, are making today in the world to carry out our constitutional tasks, to protect and preserve our freedom. It was then, but it is now. That is what we need to realise together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u113	Thank you. I'm gonna suspend for three minutes and then we're gonna listen to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u114	Would Mr Stoffer also like to sit on his beautiful couch? Mr. Stoffer? Mr. Stoffer, you've been given a seat. You can sit on that. We're gonna listen to the Secretary of State. If her contribution is very short and pointy, then we will immediately continue with the second term of the Chamber and then have lunch. Otherwise, we'll have lunch after the Secretary of State's contribution. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u115	Mr President, I am going to do my best to do it quickly. Several Members have asked me questions, and I think it is right to do so, because we are setting the budget for the coming year. It's about something. The Minister also made a very strong point about it. We are talking about our people who bring peace and security all over the world. They're doing the same on your behalf. They do so with great passion and with great appreciation from the Chamber. You have all started your contributions with the commitment of our people. The Minister has just begun her contribution with the fact that we have prepared the Defence Note together with you on our arrival. On this basis, we have set the priorities for the next four years. In the meantime, we are in the implementation phase of that Defence Note. We've agreed with you that that doesn't stop us. I think it is good for you to realise that we have taken our position immediately to look at what we had to modernise in the armed forces, for example the equipment, which I will deal with as well. We've also looked into what's needed. That point will be taken into account when reviewing the Defence Note. Mr. Chairman. I'll tell you what I'll go into. First of all, the questions that have been asked about people: working conditions, preservation and recruitment, diversity, training and social security. I shall then turn to the questions on equipment. You have asked several questions about the letters that have been sent, the routes that run, the readiness, the stocks, the real estate and the sustainability. I will then close with manners, as in the Defence Note. I will deal with cooperation with third parties, the defence industry and a number of questions that have been raised. I want to start with the people first. You have all expressed your appreciation for this and you have considered the fact that a working conditions agreement was concluded last summer, in which we have been able to take good steps in the field of modernisation. Defense had a very old pension system. We have received a very nice pension system for this, which offers all our people a good pension provision for the future. I should also like to mention the increase in salaries and allowances which have been raised. We look not only at the pension for later, but also at the salary for now, so that people actually feel it in their wallet. I think that's a good start. Mr Van Helvert thought that all our human resources were about twenty years old. I have to disappoint him: our payroll is from 1917. That's over 100 years old. That means it was obviously very difficult to adjust it in those 100 years. So a lot has to be done. I'll take you there. The State Commission in 1917 found that the older you were, the more spending you had. That makes that the older you get inside the D.O.D., the more salary you get, no matter what you do. When I pronounce this like this, you realize that doesn't fit in with this time of year. Because at this time and in this labour market, you want to be able to offer the best people a good salary, and we want the best people in the Defense Department who are passionate about doing their job. We don't want a system where you have to wait until you get older to maybe get a better salary someday. The wage building alone shows that you have to take steps in that direction. Another point is the personnel system. Mr Van Helvert indicated that. Mr Bosman referred to an essay that he himself wrote, and that he also shared with us and you, about flexibility in it. We have a closed personnel system. Every year there are about 148.000 school leavers. Of those 148.000 school leavers, 48.000 are interested in Defense. So the potential of Defense in young people is enormous. People find it interesting to work at the Department of Defense. Of those 48,000, 15,000 then apply. 75% of this falls off during the inspection process, because we are indeed asking something: physical, but also when it comes to psychic testing. This is what we do between 18 and 28 years of age. Mrs Belhaj also had questions about this, which I will deal with in a moment. If we continue to do so, it also shows that with the additional investment we are allowed to make, the 1.5 billion from the government agreement, the number of vacancies has also increased. That's a positive thing. We are very good at recruiting, because we have never been able to appoint so many soldiers. It is not because of our recruitment efforts and not because of the interest of young people, but because of the closed staffing system. That's between 18 and 28 years old now. It is important to open this up to people who are older or who have different backgrounds, but also to women, as the Minister just said, which is 50% of the workforce. 70% of Dutch women do not know that Defence is also open to women. If you let this kind of numbers get to you, it shows you have to go to another system. That's what we want to do. That is what we agreed with the unions in the collective agreement. I also indicated that Mr Kerstens was there early last week at the legislative consultation on what is necessary for this. We're not figuring out what the blueprint should be from behind our desk chair. No, we are now testing this very concretely in a number of places in the Netherlands. Last week I took you into what we do in Oirschot and Volkel and what we do in our health organization. We'll see what works and what doesn't. As Mrs Karabulut and Mr Kerstens asked for this, I would like to point out that the filling rates per armament may be different. It is precisely because of the situation, given the labour market and given the capacities when it comes to the people we need. So that's what we're testing now. Next spring we want to come up with the policy paper. When it comes to how this blueprint is going to look in terms of the personnel system, these are, for example, the various forms of contract. If we ask our people why they're leaving, it's because of a lack of career prospects, future insecurity and the way the organization controls. Often it is also about a sense of bureaucracy. This shows the urgency of why we need to adapt our system, but it also shows that it will not be a simple task to do, because we come from old systems and it is also difficult to do. But next year we want to come up with this blueprint for the forms of contract and the personnel system. We also want to discuss it with the power stations and then roll it out step by step. Edge condition that is essential in this is issues such as IT and business operations. To include you in the story: if we now have models or personnel systems that cannot capture competences, while the core of a new staff model is customization and the identification of competences of people, the employee is central and what is needed to do so will require additional investment to be able to make that battle. This will really be circumstantial. So we can come a long way next year, but when it comes to implementation, these are the preconditions for doing this properly. We have said that it will have to be picked up gradually. The same applies to the wage building.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u116	A question from Mr Kerstens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u117	I very much agree with what the Secretary of State has said so far, including about framework conditions and so on. Fortunately, we all see that the front door is open further. But it can be even more open to new groups. It may not be the case anymore, as I have said before, but the back door is still wide open. It is also extremely important that you are an attractive employer for the people you have once brought in. The Secretary of State said something about working on a new staffing system. The function and remuneration building is an important part of this. One of the preconditions to make this a success is that the goal is to make Defence a more attractive employer. We shouldn't have what we had in the collective bargaining: that you think you're a little bit upset, but that you're gonna miss out because you don't have enough money or because you don't make the deal around the timeline, and so on. Can the Secretary of State reassure me, as well as the people of Defense, that this time will not be a stumbling block in making the attractive new job and reward building that we all find so badly necessary to make Defense an attractive employer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u118	This is a justified point by Mr Kerstens. I also started with the principles of the current wage building to take you into the mindset behind it. This also shows that you will have to grow to a different content and other starting points. We will have to establish this together with the power stations. I understand your call, and we will, together with the power stations, see what it takes. But before we say it's just a money debate, it also means a joint problem analysis. It means you have to figure out why people are pouring out and what's behind it. As I have just pointed out, this is mainly on the side of the career perspective, so what we offer people if they want to stay 20, 30, 40 years or possibly longer, but it is also about future security. That's an important fact. For example, we have agreed in this collective agreement to give phase 2 soldiers who are willing to retrain for functions that are open, a fixed phase 3 contract for that too. But we will have to implement this together with the power stations. We shall do so within the budget. That starts with a problem analysis. If that leads to the need for resources, then of course we are also looking at them, as we always do with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u119	That is a rather clear answer, but as far as I am concerned one small element is missing. Of course, it starts with a joint problem analysis and also with a start of agreement on how to shape the solution. We are not going to conduct these negotiations here; that is what is happening at that table. But I think the Secretary of State agrees with me that a more attractive system is not a guarantee that it will cost less money, but that it will probably cost more money. I hear the Secretary of State now say, at least I would like to hear her say, that there may well be a difference of opinion with trade unions about the joint problem analysis and the direction of the solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u120	I do not think that any of us, not the power stations, but also the Defense itself as an employer, would benefit from the fact that it is going to be a long process. I just indicated that the fact that we have a 1917 payroll building just really, really doesn't fit anymore. I just can't do that anymore. So we have to take steps in this. I have also indicated that this will probably have to be gradual. Because my experience is that everyone agrees with something like customization, and that everyone will also say yes to rewarding for results and responsibility until you do it, because then there will be differences. I'll take you with me. There may be differences between armies or within different function groups and departments. So this is really not an easy task. I think that, in general terms, we can get a whole lot further together, as you say, but that there will really be differences in the interpretation. But we just need to look carefully at what is needed for that. We have spent the last period of time here, and I think that the Minister has just indicated this, and every time he looks at what is needed for this when it comes to our staff. The AOW-hole has just been mentioned. We can provide everyone with an e-device, or more clothing. So every time we look from the perspective: how can we ensure that we are attractive as an employer? That is what we will do when it comes to the wage building, because we need to see how we can increase it as an employer now, but above all towards the future, because the labour market will not suddenly get much bigger. This includes cooperation with others. If you work with others, people will also compare themselves with the others. That is why we will be strongly involved in this. We have no desire to allow this to last for a long time. So we will also look at it within our budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u121	If I do the math, that payroll building is even older than the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u122	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u123	That's really old. Mr Kerstens has just asked whether enough money is being made available for a modern staff policy and a modern wage building. I understand that there will be a blueprint next spring and that at least that money is not the first stumbling block, so we can assume that if there is a problem that comes to us. I have another question. Is there gonna be a schedule with that blueprint? And will it also come to the Chamber so that we can monitor progress? Because this can sometimes be a very long dragging process and I like to keep a finger on the wrist.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u124	Yes. That was Mr Kerstens' question at last week's legislative consultation. Given the size of the SGP, despite the fact that the SGP is so old, I understand that Mr Stoffer cannot be present everywhere, even with all the budgetary treatment now in the Chamber. But this promise has been made. The blueprint therefore looks at what we do with contract forms, with a different staffing system and with what is necessary as a condition for doing so. Of course, the discussion about the wage building is an explicit part of that. I know that you have all also received the letter from the three power stations, which already proposed cover. Mrs Bruins Slot has been concerned about this on behalf of the CDA in the past and Mr Kerstens has tabled a motion on the RVU levy. It contained one of the proposals for cover. I have indicated that, around 1 December, we expect the ruling of the Tax Administration, the tax inspector, on the case that we ourselves have brought before us as Defence. The promise is there. Mr. Stoffer, you will be informed about the planning. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Helvert asked whether the staff shortage masked a shortage of money. I can interpret that question in several ways. The Minister also pointed out that it will always be a matter of priority. We have needs on all fronts and can tell you that there is no money left, not even on the exploitation. We spend a lot of money because we just need it. When it comes to human resources, we do have filling rates. You've been able to see that. The work has to be done. That is why we work in the framework of a productive military, for example, with reservists, business and hire to make the work possible. As has just been rightly pointed out, on the one hand, we need to increase recruitment efforts and, on the other hand, we need to maintain current staff. It doesn't help you to work alone at the front, you also have to make sure you hold on to the staff you have. We are working hard on this and trying to solve the obstacles. For example, a lot of people want to stay, but in a certain grade while that grade is maximized. One of the issues is whether the duration can be extended. There are discussions about that, so we're trying to see if people can stay longer in their positions and stay longer in a certain grade. That only means something for the possible release of those people from the Defense Department. They must be ready for the labour market. Mr Bosman asked for that. Mr Bosman also asked about civil training and how it is ensured that Defence staff do training and then training that they can take with them to the civilian market when they leave Defence. As you know, there are over a thousand training courses within the Defense Department. It is not possible to arrange for civil accreditation for all these training courses. However, we are in the process of providing insight into the training courses and, above all, the training courses in which most people participate. That is what we are doing to check which accreditation can be arranged for. I propose to include in the personnel report the aspect of training and its accreditation, in addition to information on the adaptive force. Then you get a picture of what that means. And it seems to me to be a good thing to note, when it comes to the maintenance of staff and the outflow figures, that there is a stabilisation, even from the military side, despite attracting the labour market. You will be informed about this through the personnel reports. Mr De Roon asked about its significance for certain categories. Staff from certain categories is just hard to find. This applies to the whole of the Netherlands. This involves technical staff, IT staff and nursing staff. They are scarcity categories. It has been asked whether we are looking at premiums to maintain such staff. That's what we do. For scarcity categories we have generic conservation premiums. If you work in that category, you get an extra bonus. Individual binding premiums are awarded to very specific people who we would like to retain. That's what they're called. We look at what is needed to preserve certain people by category. As I told you, one of the biggest issues was the lack of future security, so the question "can I stay with the Defense Department, yes or no?" I think that the agreement made with the collective agreement plants is important in order to provide that certainty. We ask people to continue to retrain during the course, because of course we simply need different functions and different people. Mrs Belhaj asked for an increase in age at the legislative consultation last week. Here she uttered a cry of hearts in response to the motion she had already tabled in order not only to look for people between 18 and 28 years old, in a generic sense, but to do so more widely. I've informed you that we're talking to the power stations. This has led to a recent agreement on at least part of your motion. So I'm going to meet you in part. The proposed amendment to extend the maximum age limits for phase 1 posts for different categories, but not for the categories of soldier, marechaussee and corporal, was accepted. This has to do with the fact that people do not want to influx at a later age, to be reduced to a lower grade, and if they leave the Ministry of Defence, they may not be able to make the link with the civilian labour market. I think it's a good thing that part of your question has been answered. The glass is half full. At least the first step has been taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u125	That is indeed very positive for the first part, but when the Secretary of State appointed the second part, I actually thought: how can it be that, when you are 35 years old, you are not allowed to apply for the position of soldier and military, because the union, as the Secretary of State indicated, is afraid that people will not be able to find another job after that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u126	Let me put it this way: otherwise I am going to speak on behalf of the power stations and I do not want to do so. I have informed you that part of your request, of your motion, has been filled in. I think we actually share the most important point, because I have just indicated that I think it is important to turn the closed staff system we now have into an open system. Then your point comes naturally: people who are 40, 30 or 45, have never worked at the Department of Defense and do not want to be a reservist, so knowingly simply want to work full-time at the Department of Defense can do so. I would like to point out that it is more important to create our energy there together with the power stations. What does that mean in terms of contract forms and in terms of new personnel models? In this context, I would like to stress the importance of the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the permissible sound power level of motor vehicles and I believe that this has solved part of your question, but we have said that much more is needed. So we share your general ambition. You have tabled a motion for a resolution on this matter. I think we embraced it. I don't know if we've taken her over, but at least that motion was passed by your Chamber. I think that together with the power stations, we have a responsibility to see how we can handle this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u127	I'm afraid it's gonna take another hundred years. I'm genuinely trying to understand. I understand it's in systems prayer, but I think the world has changed. Maybe people thought: if you're 28 and you're going to work for 40 years in the Defense Department, that's exactly perfect; then you're going to retire and then it's "tabee, done and done." But the world has changed; doesn't everyone know that? There's nothing wrong with coming in at 35, putting you in ten years for the armed forces and maybe doing other things? I don't think it makes any sense to set up a blockade for that. I would be very sorry if this was going to take any longer and therefore it would take even longer for the armed forces to get back in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u128	I already indicated that it took us over 100 years to do something with the systems, the 1917 payroll building. Apparently that is very difficult, but I think the time is now ripe to do so. I also see the urgency, not only in myself but also in the power stations. So I really see this as a joint task. I fully agree with you, but within the current system it is just very difficult to adapt it; that was my answer to you. We can focus our energy on how you can try to fix everything in the current system, but that will not be the solution. You have to go to another system. I think that energy should focus on this: on that other system rather than within the current system with durations and grades. For all kinds of things apply. I'm not gonna take you completely into the technique, but if we're gonna do that, I think we're gonna be doing that for another five years. I think there is now simply the urgency to take that step forward, but I believe that part of Mrs Belhaj's question and motion has been answered with that, at least the feedback. Mrs Belhaj indicated that this also includes more diversity in the organisation, because it is important to ensure that the use of target groups, people who are not thinking about Defence now, whether they are women, have a different background or 40 and think that they have missed their vocation and that they want to work for a while in the Defense Department becomes possible. The Minister was just going into that as well. For example, Mr De Roon asked what I think of an appeal from some of the power stations to employ people of different nationalities. The Minister also addressed this issue in part. I think we should start with people in the Netherlands, because we are just leaving a lot of labour market potential at the moment. Let us focus our energies on this in order to see how we can broaden that interest in Defence. This also applies to diversity. As Mrs Belhaj knows, we are also working hard on this by training recruiters to take diversity with us and by looking at our recruitment campaigns. Some words work very well for men but do not work with women or other target groups, to give you an example. So we'll see what we can do in there, and we'll try to take that with us right away. Mr. Chairman. Another aspect that is important for the recruitment and retention of personnel is security. The Minister has just, in a general sense, addressed the question of what that means and what we have been doing over the past period. I think that is important to bear in mind, because there has been a lot of progress in strengthening the security organisation in the past period within the Ministry of Defence. We have also told you that this is going to take a while, because we have come there with an Inspection Security and Security Directorate, but also with the various Defence components there it is also happening because the security organisation is being set up. But if you set up a security organization, you're not there yet, because that means you're still doing things. Let me give you an example. Ammunition engineers or technicians of dangerous substances aren't just people you get from somewhere. These are people with work experience, who then need to be trained and do very specialised work. We ask for your patience for the coming period too. These are long-term issues, even when it comes to social security. I know that Mrs Karabulut asked in an earlier debate: what is the deadline for all these different things? It's actually continuous work in progress. We have promised you that we have done so in the budget too, in order to make you understand where we stand in terms of security with the different plans of approach. But it is a fact that we are constantly taking steps and the security organisation is still being set up. We're actually trying to figure out where our biggest security risks are. That also brings me to Mr Kerstens' question. He started his speech with culture and said that he had never talked about the word "culture" as often as he did with the Defense Department, when he expected something else. He mentioned the example of the KMA and its recent PhD research. I recognize that PhD research. Sander Dalenberg has actually come to the same conclusion: you have to put more responsibility on the people themselves, which is also stated in the PhD research..... that you make them more aware of their role and of what responsibility they carry, and that they constantly keep a mirror in mind. I think that's an important fact. We immediately entered into a conversation with the person who wrote the dissertation, to see what we're doing. As a result of the investigations we have carried out at the RMA, we have taken a number of concrete measures for persons concerned. Secondly, however, a task force has also been set up to look wider. That task force is not going to produce a report, because we have enough reports, but is going to see exactly how you take this aspect, namely how you lay down responsibilities and make people aware, into it. I think that's an important fact. I share that conclusion from the dissertation. After every incident from above more rules are drawn up and think that they are then automatically respected, will not work. So you need to raise awareness and maybe lower rules. And you have to look at the system: what is that all about and what does that mean? That's what we're looking at from the Security Board and from ourselves. Because we should not take any more action after every report, but look at what is behind it. What are the real root causes and what should be picked up? It is often a question of how to ensure that people are adequately trained and in the question of how the control looks. Those are things that we're taking up over the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u129	I think the problem wasn't so much that new rules were created every time after another incident, but that the problem was that every time all those previous rules came out of the drawer again: now we're really gonna do it. I have made a very concrete proposal, which is different from all the other regulations. I have indicated that I think that part of the problem of partly unwanted culture, that shadow culture, for example the KMA, is that tomorrow's leaders, who are trained there, are trained by today's leaders. And they have the same education and therefore have the same culture in their luggage. Couldn't you even break that by getting people off the street for tasks related to guidance or guidance? Would that part of those new ideas, I shouldn't call it a plan, I believe, come forward from the task force? As far as I am concerned, this is very interesting and it is an opportunity to break that culture.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u130	The dissertation doesn't specifically say that people have to come from outside, but I think that what you're referring to is changing the culture there is the word culture again. If it takes people from outside, that's what it takes. But the task force is now exploring this and I would like to give them more space. I do not want to say from above: we impose this rule, because that solves it. I would particularly like to give them the opportunity to come up with a thorough analysis and then a solution. I call upon you to give room for that. I think that's a joint responsibility. Defense is a very large organization, with 60,000 people. You have also been able to see in Annex 7 of the annual report how many reports are made on physical safety per year. And in the annual integrity report, you can see how many reports there are on social security. That's a lot of them. If there are incidents that are going to be just there, we need to be patient with each other to see what's really behind it, instead of inventing a new rule right away and thinking that we can solve it with that. 'Cause I think the DOD has too many rules. I don't know any other organization that has so many rules. We even have a reverse rule. It's prescribed. I see Mrs. Dik's terrified look.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u131	Yeah, that raises questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u132	I understand that, Mr. Chairman. I am just saying this to include you in this and to indicate that we may be an overregulated organisation. If you're overregulated, it makes compliance even more difficult. In her report as chairman of the Visitation Committee, Mrs Verbeet states that you should also give room for implementation. From the professionalism of the execution you have to see what it takes to give it a good way. That's what we're doing. I ask for your patience, especially when it comes to setting up the security organisation. We see, in fact, whether we are talking about the ammunition chain or fire safety, that it is not so much about the rules, but about what is underneath. What's it really gonna take to get it done? Those are things that can often not be arranged in one way. They just need a little longer time. I mention, for example, the training of people. It's gonna take you a while to turn someone into an ammo technician. Mrs. Diks asked about the type rating. That's incredibly important. I've also indicated what that is. If you're making up for that delay, you can't do a few other things. We have to make a constant choice. We must constantly weigh the priorities against each other. What's really urgent? We will continue to do so in the coming period. We'll work on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u133	Is the Secretary of State getting on with her story yet? 'Cause I want to go to lunch slowly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u134	Mr. Chairman. I'm still with the staff. That was the first block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u135	Because we also have a lot of rules in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u136	No, I'm not done with staff. Mrs Belhaj had a question about the long-term committee headed by Mr Deetman. Mrs Berndsen is also a member. Mrs Belhaj asked about the state of play. As you know, Mr Deetman and Mrs Berndsen are working hard on this. He's still gathering all the information he needs. Since April, 27 Defence staff or ex-workers have registered I do not know. Twenty cases are still pending. The committee has already indicated that it will not consider seven issues, because they do not correspond to the task we have given to the committee. The Deetman Commission has been set up for a year. The Committee on Long-Term Affairs has therefore begun and next April it should be ready in principle. But if it takes more time to complete those matters, that time will be given. Because that's important. The committee's name says so. It's long-term, long-term business. This means that the committee has to do some research to make the image clear and see what is needed. Mrs Belhaj and Mrs Karabulut then asked a question about the ruling of the medical disciplinary board in the context of Mr Van Wulfen. I haven't been able to study the verdict. I'll do that. I think it's a good thing that we realize that Defense is not a party to this ruling. Nor are we talking about individual cases in this Chamber. Mr. Chairman. I'd like to move on to the equipment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u137	I understand the Secretary of State doesn't want to go into individual matters. My request to the Secretary of State was precisely about the impact of such an event. The Secretary of State has just focused on the fact that everyone must feel safe. A doctor needs you to feel completely safe, but now it's in the papers. If you're working at the Department of Defense and like that the Secretary of State just told you it's all safe, you might start to doubt that. That's a very unpleasant feeling. On this matter, my question was whether you would like to comment on it. The Secretary of State doesn't want that. But I would like to ask the Secretary of State through the President to at least say something about what she is going to do about people's concerns after this has happened, because they no longer dare to go to their doctors.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u138	I think the minister and I stand for our organization and feel safe to report. I think that's really the point. We're doing everything we can to make that possible. You've received several letters about that. I am not going to repeat any of this for the sake of time, Mr President. That is what we stand for, even when it comes to our health care and our medical doctors who play a role in it. So if you want that statement: here's to it! But when it comes to individual cases, I do not think it is appropriate to give further details. That's the rule we have with each other. As I said, I have not been able to study the ruling either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u139	Good. Mrs Karabulut's last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u140	Mr President, with your permission I would like to present a very brief part of a long letter from a former POMS employee in Ter Apel who has worked at a NATO depot with a question to the Secretary of State. "Mrs Karabulut, it is not normal for you to have to fight at the first coulance scheme and prove that my illness is related to my function. Now I have to fight RIVM, ABP and Defense. I hope this will help you. Airplanes and other equipment are purchased. They can't get staff. Of course, the aftercare of former staff leaves them in the lurch. You have to fight in court to be right. And that you're already sick of chrome-6, it's also spiritually what's killing us. They don't say anything about it, you don't hear them about it." Mr President, I have proposed to the Secretary of State to abandon that unfortunate plan for nine additional JSF planes for 1 billion and to put that money into a victim fund for chromium-6 victims, veterans, people who have become ill by burnpit et cetera, etc. Is the Secretary of State prepared to respond to this proposal and write this by a former member of the Defence Organisation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u141	I've been talking to POMS employees myself. Many employees are also employed by the Defense Department. So I know the stories. I have also spoken to people at various meetings that I have organised before. They impress me too, because it's about people who have worked with soul and salvation for the defense. So I also recognize the stories. It is important that we try to provide proper care for these people, to see how we ensure that these people are recognised and recognised. We are also doing everything we can to see if that is possible. Whether that is to compensate for one's own risk, to give an example, or whether one can ask all kinds of questions and get support in them, that is what we are focusing on. You have received an e-mail and I would also like to receive it if you wish, through you, Chairman. Those stories affect me too, because this is about us. What I would like to propose to Mrs Karabulut... You're making some kind of false contradiction as if we're not willing to take care of our employees, our former employees. That is what we absolutely want. That's what it's all about all the time. When it comes to aftercare for chromium-6, former employees have also been asked what they still need, what it means. We will continue to do so. That has nothing to do with purchasing equipment. This is not a discussion about money, because we care about our aftercare when it comes to reintegration. Whether it's for veterans or for our employees, that's what it's all about. I see that Mrs Karabulut may want to create a false contradiction that is not there. On the contrary, we want to ensure that there is good care. I have also indicated that, when it comes to the employees who worked with chromium-6 at the POMS sites, together with the power stations and RIVM, we have looked into the possibility of designing a scheme that meets the research, but also what is the practice in the Netherlands in this type of scheme. There is no need to fight the judge, because almost no case in this matter comes before the courts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u142	Clear. Mr. De Roon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u143	I assume the Secretary of State is ready for the material section now. Will she also discuss the subject of Reaperdrones?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u144	You have received an answer in the written answers to your question when they will arrive. But I hadn't started with material yet, chairman. I'm going in.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u145	I just wanted to see if you'd be taking up that subject of the Reaperdrones. Then I will ask additional questions after you have discussed them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u146	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u147	About the POMS employees. I know that the Department of Defense is doing everything in its power to address people as well as possible. Yet it doesn't always work at the right moments. I'd like to give the Secretary of State another example. In 1988 the garbagework allowance was created. In 1999, the employees of POMS in Eygelshoven in the south of our country made a joint request for this. That is of course very nice, but the people who worked in Brunssum, for example, or didn't work there anymore, but had worked there, were excluded. If they still want to claim this, I believe that it is €0.48 a day; so it is more about recognition than it is about finance, then it is said: yes, then you have to find a superior who wants to sign that you have worked on it for so many hours. It may be that the superior is no longer alive, that the company no longer exists or that the new company has no use signing for it. As a result, this €0.48 per day becomes another point of which people say: we fight there too, but we fail. Isn't it possible to organize this kind of thing now that the Defense Department is willingly watching how you can do this? Can you look at an arrangement where you estimate about how many days someone has worked on it, and so on, instead of needing official signatures?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u148	I'll take this case with me. I have just mentioned this to Mrs Karabulut. It's the spirit we have. I've just indicated that it's about compensating for one's own risk. In addition, we ask RIVM what we can do for employees who are not yet sick, but who may be worried. Is there anything you can think of that you could do in terms of research? Those are all things that are aimed at that. So I'd like to hear from this case, so we can write it down to see what's going on there and see if there's a solution. The general line from us is to look at aftercare as much as possible, where it is always a search what it means wider. I will come back to that. Mr President, I would like to go to equipment, if I may. Yes, you're nodding. It is good to take you into our material projects and what is being done in them. The Minister has already, in a general sense, addressed what has happened and done in the past period. I think it's good to give you some figures on where we come from. In 2016, we had a 16% investment quota. In 2019 it will be 23%. In 2016, we had a liability position, i.e. the amount of contracts and the value of those contracts in that year, of 2.6 billion. In 2019, that was 5.9 billion. The fact that extra investment has been made, not just the 1.5 billion, but all the work to ensure that that train gets on steam, is all about that. This does not mean that all projects are going well. Things can always come up in there. But the fact that we have gone from 2.6 billion to 5.9 billion already indicates that the investment train, so to speak, has started to run. This may be less visible to you, because you will see in the Defence Project Overview the final result of the projects we are actually going to complete, but of course we are also doing a lot of things in the preparatory phase. To take you into account, the number of projects we have in preparation has doubled compared to 2016. We do that to our people from the Defense Material Organization. We do this at the front by making sure that we are prepared for the future, because we see very well that the future of Defence will change in a changing security environment and that, in addition to your staff, your equipment must also be prepared for it. But we're actually investing. For the past two years, I've given you 30 A letters. As I said, the figures speak for themselves. However, a number of projects are delayed. Mrs. Diks asked for that. That's right: a number of projects are delayed. Sometimes it's because that's what we want. One example is the large clothing projects. We have decided, also in the context of personnel care and ensuring that your people get the good stuff, that everyone gets a helmet and that the clothing package is also reinforced in terms of material and quantity. We're gonna keep on betting on that. We'll make sure there's a choice package for combat boots. In every possible way we try to strengthen the clothing. It'll slow it down. Sometimes it is delayed because the supplier has problems with the delivery. So it's different at once. If you look at all the overviews of the defence projects, we had 57 in the book in 2016. We've got 78 now. In 2016, 45% of the projects had been delayed. We're at 28% now. We still want to bring that down further, but it does show that we are working with man and power to get those projects done. I am proud that we are able to achieve this with each other in a market that attracts and in which not only we invest, but also other European countries do. You can see that the industry itself is struggling to handle all the questions in a good way and in good time. Then a number of questions were asked by Mr De Roon, Mr Voordewind and Mr Bosman on the replacement of submarines. That is one of our major projects, because they are one of our most important weapons systems. As you know, we've developed a defense industry strategy. We established it with the Chamber at the beginning of this year. As you know, we started this project in 2015. That was in the previous cabinet period, without a new DIS. We have established it on the basis of the coalition agreement. We considered it important to include these new DIS in an ongoing procurement procedure. This must be done with care and transparency. We're in the middle of that process. It's an ongoing procurement process. So you also have to make sure you know how to do it in a good way. That's what we're doing. I have indicated that further information from the CIS has been requested. In my letter of April to the Chamber, I also indicated that the mandate was given. I hope to be able to send this year's letter, the B letter, to discuss it with the Chamber and see what follow-up steps are needed and whether the Chamber will agree to it. As you know, it is important to deal with these matters in the CIS. We no longer have a self-creating industry for submarines in the Netherlands, but from the DIS we clearly look at what it means. I see questions. All of a sudden, three men are coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u149	You shouldn't care about that. There's three of them coming. I thought Mr Bosman was for Mr Van Helvert and Mr Voordewind.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u150	Positive. It is an important weapon system, essential for the safety of the Netherlands, for our intelligence capacity, but also for Special Operations Forces. I've reported a concern regarding that consideration. The defence market is not a transparent and equal market. It's not a market, especially if there are state-owned companies playing in that market. That makes it very difficult to make that assessment of the financial situation. I have already expressed my concerns about how the auction went with the mine hunters, indicating that it is being offered below price levels. That makes it very difficult for the competition. How's this cabinet gonna make that weighting?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u151	We shall return to that in the B letter. I would like to ask Mr Bosman and all my fellow Members to do the following. We're in an ongoing procurement process. I am pleased to report the results to you, both in the B letter and later in the D letter. The House's appeal, which Mrs Bruins Slot, for example, has tabled in a motion, that this is an important fact, will be taken into account. In my view, Mr Bosman's concerns, which he has just expressed, are also addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u152	"We're in an ongoing procurement process." That phrase regularly returns to the cabinet. That makes sense, because we know that the procurement process is under way. But that sentence is used to move everything forward. There's no place in that entire procurement process when we make the decision. How many questions do we have to ask the providers? My question to the Secretary of State is whether she agrees with us that it is more than the best boat at the best price and that it is also about consolidating jobs in self-creating naval construction in the Netherlands and that waiting longer is therefore not wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u153	We've discussed with you the Defense Industry Strategy. It contains some of the elements you mention, but also principles as the best boat for the best price. We spend taxpayers' money, so we have to deal with it carefully. We want to ensure that there are issues in the Defence Industry Strategy, for example on maritime industry. That will have to be weighed in full. We'll send you that in the B letter. I think you should give that space. I think that will come back to the B letter in the debate with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u154	In my speech, I have already said that we, as a Christian Union, find it too long. I ask the Secretary of State why this is taking so long; I have just done so. But the Secretary of State says again: we want the best boat for the best price. There are a number of spokesmen here, including myself, who said in the first term that this should not be decisive. We are making strategic choices here against what the Germans are doing in their reservations about European procurement. The French receive state aid. I would like to urge the Secretary of State to go not only for the best boat at the best price, but also for the strategic knowledge and skills we have in the Netherlands to be heavily involved in the tender.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u155	My framework is the Defense Industry Strategy, which you have established. It actually contains everything you call it. We will have to assess this in this project as we have done for example with the M-fregates and the combat support ship. With every project we do that in front. We'll keep doing that. What I have indicated is that we are dealing here with an ongoing tender. You've already put a number of things into that. We've established a new policy. Defence and Economic Affairs have jointly made the Defence Industry Strategy. How do you ensure that you can ensure this in a good way in an ongoing procurement process? We have to do this carefully; it's not just about something. We shall do so, in which the elements you mention play a role. Defense is an operational organization that just wants the best boat. We'll have to fit the money within our budgets. It's not like we can do that indefinitely. From the same budget that you will hopefully adopt later, we have investment plans for our material projects. You are not just asking me to look at the submarines, but you are right to ask me to fill in other projects. So we will also have to look at that price. It's not like there's an unlimited margin in that. We therefore want the best boat for the best price. Mr Bosman rightly pointed out in his contribution: today's Walrus shows that the aspect of the life cycle costs is an integral part of this. You need to look not only at the investment amount, but also at the costs throughout the maintenance phase. This is an integral price and must therefore be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u156	That is another nuance: you look not only at the purchase price, but also at the maintenance price. That can be a factor that allows the purchase price to be higher, because you earn it back. But at the JSF, the F-35, we didn't choose the best price at all. That's where we chose the best plane. That was decisive, of course, in addition to a number of other criteria. I'd like to stress this to the Secretary of State. Of course, we must get the best boat, but our group is not looking for the lowest price. Our group is looking for the best boat, in which we want to preserve and use the knowledge and skills we have here in the Netherlands, including the jobs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u157	That is a clear framework for Mr Voordewind on behalf of the Christian Union. In every material project, we take the life cycle with us. It's exactly as you say. It's not just about the amount of investment. Maintenance costs are also part of this. That will also be the case here. When it comes to the price, of course, we have a budget within which we have an investment band for all our material projects. We are also looking at the operating costs associated with it, the maintenance budgets that are needed for this. That's not unlimited, that's how I'd like to give you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u158	I'm taking advantage of my last opportunity to interrupt. Other things I have to come back to in second term. I'm not getting a clue from the Secretary of State why it's taking so long. They are the same arguments as a year ago: it has to be careful and so on and so forth. We have already asked so many sessions of questions to the providers. What else do we want to know? Does the Secretary of State agree with me that postponing a decision does not make the losers of the tender less angry? They'll stay as angry if they don't. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that postponing the final decision makes the winner weaker because he must continue to invest time and money in an uncertain assignment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u159	A year ago we had not established the DIS with each other. So it's not like we're at the same point as last year. At the end of last year, the DIS was presented to you by Defence and Economic Affairs. At the beginning of this year, in the spring, we discussed it with you. The DIS was then established. That's an important fact. That was new. A different policy framework was included. That's what we asked out. If I had not done so, the Chamber would have asked me to make a bet with the Chamber on this, through you, Chairman................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. That is why we have taken this further. That is all being weighed now, and it is important to do so; that is what I mean by care.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u160	Bets aren't gonna go through the chairman, you know. That is quite contrary to the Rules of Procedure. No, it'll be a mess.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u161	I don't want to put you in a nasty position, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u162	Very good. Can we go to lunch, Madam Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u163	I had just begun to answer the questions on equipment, Mr President. I'm looking at you now. I would like to propose that at least the block of equipment be completed. I think the rest can be done pretty quickly. Mr. Chairman. Maybe it's good to go to the F-35 then. Mr Stoffer asked about the number. The Minister addressed this in the context of the NATO plan adopted by the Cabinet, which explicitly prioritised the third squadron. You have also received the letter about the additional nine devices that we would like to order for them. We have indicated that this will allow us to act faster and more flexibly, with the current F-35 in it. Mr Stoffer asked what a falling piece price means. Does that mean we can't order more F-35s? I wish it were, but unfortunately it isn't. Because, as you know: F-35, American, dollar exchange rates, and we are still paying in euros. A lower unit price in dollars does not automatically mean that the unit will be directly cheaper in euros. As you know, currency risks are part of the F-35. This can also be read in the progress report. We therefore have to take this into account. So there's no room that we can still use, just not. As you know, currency risks can only be excluded if the contract to purchase is actually signed. In that case, foreign exchange forward contracts must also be concluded within a given period of time. The fact of a plan is not sufficient to enable such a contract to be concluded. So we still have a large part of the currency risk. We are not just looking at whether it can't be before and what the possibilities are. But there is no room to answer Mr Stoffer's question directly; I also see Mr Bosman nodding. Of course, we are looking at how we can properly cover the currency risks. But now we have to deal with the current framework. Mr Bosman asked about the combat support ship. You will soon receive the D letter. This, like the M-frigates, has been an example of which we have chosen, on the basis of the CIS, for a maritime industry party to ensure that it can do so. You might think it takes a long time, but we've never actually moved from an A letter to a D letter so quickly when it comes to the combat support ship. In the next general discussion, in which we can discuss a number of material projects, we can also discuss Mr Bosman's question on arms. You'll see that in the D letter. Mr De Roon asked about the weapons of the cross-flight, following his 2016 motion, I believe. You have read in the A letter from the M-frigates that we have not earmarked any money for this, also that we always have to make a choice within the budget and that this is not yet foreseen within the current financial frameworks. But the Minister has just gone into this when it comes to reviewing the Defence Note. I also told you that this will also be included in the letter of the M-frigates. But I can't anticipate that right now. I think an important one in the M-fregates is that you could have read that at the beginning of next year, estimated in the first quarter, you could expect the letter. There's international cooperation. This is what we do with Belgium. This also means a little more coordination in the implementation of the conditions we have set out in the A-letter to see if, and in what way, this is applicable. In addition, the market players must be able to cope with all this. Our experience is that we are not the only ones investing, so we see the market players increasing their order book, which sometimes means that they do not always have the capacity to act quickly. But I will come back to that in the handling of these letters.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u164	Having heard all this, is my question whether the Secretary of State is going to make a firm effort to ensure that this will be achieved as soon as possible, given all the delaying factors that she sees ahead?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u165	Do you mean the M-frigates or the crusader weapons?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u166	I mean, mostly the cross-flight weapons, but the M-frigates, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u167	That's what I thought. The latter is really a discussion that we want to have when reviewing the Defence Note, with a clear understanding of what this changed environment is and what it takes to be equipped for that purpose. This will be part of it. But that is always true of the fact that it must eventually be incorporated into a budget, which you are also fixing, with a budget. So if you say that you want more there, that will also have to be done in that discussion. Then the choice will eventually have to be made in this Chamber as well. I can't anticipate that now. When it comes to those M-fregates, the date of entry into service has not changed. That's what we're gonna keep sending. But this is a different one than it has been until now, because this is the first time that we have seen with the Belgians from the beginning how we can fill that out, where the Belgians and ourselves have different needs. How can you shape that in a good way? Everything is aimed at shaping it as quickly as possible, because the new M-frigates simply need to be able to sail by 2025.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u168	Let's talk about the recalibrate process. I think that if we find that we actually need a lot more, we should put that question on the table. So we have to react: this is the budget, this is the recalibrate and the recalibrate fits within the budget. Then the re-examination must be such that, with the risk analyses and the ambitions that we have, the amount will be included with the question: Chamber, do you want this, yes or no? I think that's the process.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u169	In my view, the Minister has just given an explicit answer to this, including in the context of the debate on the interruption with Mr Van Helvert and Mrs Belhaj in this matter. That's exactly what we're doing. On the one hand, we make clear where we stand now. I will address this later in response to questions from Mrs Diks, Mrs Belhaj and Mr Van Helvert, for example, about real estate: what is the size of the backlog, so what else do you need? Another example is the stocks. We are now focusing on the implementation of main task 2, the international legal order, in order to put stocks in line with that standard in order. The main task 1 is and is becoming increasingly important, also given the security situation. As I have promised you, we will make the ammunition supplies for main task 2 transparent, but we do not yet have the order. That's all gonna cost you. We'll make that clear to you. It goes without saying that, given the security situation and new developments, a choice must be made in the priority setting. That choice is also up to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u170	That choice will then lie with us. So that means that the total amount... Imagine, in the end, the defense budget has to go to 16 billion a year; I'm just gonna call it a crazy number. That story will then be laid down, because those are the things that need to be done. Will that be submitted? Or is it presented: no, this is a budget of 11 billion that is growing a little, perhaps 12 billion, and we can fit it into that? That's my concern. Do not squash the security situation in the money we have, but determine that security situation and tell us how much money we need for that. That's my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u171	Yes, but that doesn't mean that the budget automatically... Those are two different things, I think. The Defense Note provides insight into what needs to be done. Of course, we will make proposals ourselves, because that is our responsibility. We do that as every year within a budget. We will make it clear to you what is needed for the Defence Organisation, for the armed forces to be able to operate future-proof in another security situation, in a different context where we need to prepare for and for which we need to modernise, but also to repair. We will make these two things understandable to you, because in the end a choice must always be made. You need to establish a budget and see what that means. Imagine you suddenly saying there's a lot of money coming in for real estate. Even so, in the current construction sector, apart from PAS discussions in this area, not many construction workers are suddenly ready to carry out all these projects. We'll always look at it with that look. The review of the Defence Note is aimed at looking ahead over the next 15 years. What do we see happening, what does that mean? Oh, and to give you insight. So far we have done the same with the strategic real estate plan. I have promised you to make the stocks for main task 1 transparent in order to give you an idea of what we are actually talking about. What amounts are involved and what does that mean? Then you will have an insight into this and then you will be able to make your own political assessment of our proposals. Mr. Chairman. I'm still with equipment. I'm afraid to say it; I see you looking too. I think I have answered Mr De Roon's and Mr Stoffer's questions on stocks. We are now working on main task 2 and we are making main task 1 clear. We are doing this now with the ammunition supplies for main task 2 over the next fifteen years for practice, training and deployment, but not yet for main task 1. In this sense, we still really need to look at what is needed for this. Mr Stoffer asked about the readiness, what that means and whether there are plans for it. As you know, we report on this in the employability report. In it we look at the human and material readiness. We do see improvements in this, especially in the availability of spare parts. But because we have a lot of outdated equipment, when it comes to the repair stroke, we also see that spare parts are no longer made. That's why you're in direct failure of certain weapon systems. There are a lot of efforts and they are really making improvements, but we have to make continuous choices in what we do and do not do. We are now also looking at other contracts to see if we can do those spare parts in a different way. We follow the recommendations of the General Court of Auditors. Mr Kerstens had a question about the raincoats, including our people from the KMar High Risk Security out here. As we shared with you last year in a debate, we looked at what was needed. Because the long raincoats that were once there prevented people from doing their jobs, a completely different solution was finally chosen, namely the current coats, which are simply waterproof, good and most operational. We have looked explicitly at what we can do to enable our people to carry out their tasks properly. Hence the jackets they use now and which are also waterproof. Mr. De Roon asked about the Reaper. We have not yet taken a decision on further armaments. That is possible, but I think that will be a separate discussion in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u172	I have a supplementary question. I indicated yesterday that we are very concerned about delays in all kinds of defence projects. The Secretary of State says in the written reply that the Reaperdrones will arrive at the end of 2020. Then I went to look for the previous message that the Chamber received about this. It said: Summer 2020. So there's another six-month delay in this too. I find it extremely regrettable that it is not simply stated in the reply we have received from the Secretary of State that there is another delay. This is another half answer. I would like to ask the Secretary of State, but it also applies to other rulers, Mr President, simply to give a full answer to what we are asking and not to put under the carpet that there is a six-month delay in doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u173	That is in no way the intention. In providing information to the Chamber, I expanded the Defence Project Overview by also including the IT projects and the real estate projects, but also by reporting on the deviations in May, with the annual report. For example, I would like to take you into account the delays which make the year different, for example, in the size of the project or in the finances, so that you are not surprised by it. On the contrary, I am trying to provide the Chamber with more information. We're working on the Reaper right now. We have a squadron in Leeuwarden, which, as we are in this Chamber, is simply doing its job. The Reaper also holds that the supplier has contractual obligations. As I said, we sometimes stand at the back of the queue and the producer says, for example, that I still have a few to deliver that go first, because it is my own home country. Then, as the Netherlands, when it comes to those production deliveries, you have to get in between them. We did it with the Reaper. But we're not sitting still right now. It's not like we're not dealing with the Reaper. Quite the contrary. You were able to read this week that the king was in Leeuwarden. He met the squadron there, and he's been able to see what we're doing with the Reaper.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u174	So the only reason why it's coming later is because the supplier can't deliver it sooner?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u175	I don't know exactly by heart. But when it comes to the production supply of the Reaper, we, as the Netherlands, have worked to get in between and to get the delivery sooner. You must imagine that such a supplier simply has a schedule. The Reaper was in our investment plans first. Not after that, but in the Defence Note we said that we still want to buy the Reaper. Then the question was: how can we organise this as soon as possible to ensure that we can use it as soon as possible? We have found a solution to this in the discussion with the supplier.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u176	Then I come to my second point about the Reaper: using it. Now the D.O.D. wants to use him only to observe and patrol. Let me remind you of the moment I don't remember exactly when it was, but it was before 9/11 that the Americans had decided that it would be a good thing to neutralize Osama bin Laden in Afghanistan. So they went looking for him, including unarmed drones. At some point, one of those unarmed drones noticed that Osama bin Laden was in a certain place in Afghanistan. Then the weapon system that had to take care of the neutralization had to be invoked. That happened, but at the time the effect on the ground was realized, Osama bin Laden had disappeared again, allowing him to do mischief in the world for more than ten years. That is an example that has led several parties in this Chamber yesterday: we want those drones to be armed. If they're patrolling and observing, and they see something that needs to be handled with kinetic force and that shouldn't have a delay, then it's useful if there's a weapon underneath those drones already. The Secretary of State says in the reply we have received that there must be a need for this. At the time, the Americans also thought: if only we had asked for it. So my question is: why is this need not there, while there are good reasons for doing so?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u177	I think this is a separate discussion in the Chamber, as I just said. This is about how you want to shape the deployment of unmanned vehicles and aircraft. You have had a discussion on this with the Minister before. For now, it's not. I also heard the appeal from the Chamber yesterday, from Mr Bosman and yourself. I would suggest that we discuss this separately. For now, it hasn't been taken. We have said that the discussion about unmanned weapon systems, the control over them and the question when you're going to bet... I'm gonna take a look at the minister, too. I think the Minister said when we came up with a proposal. They're autonomous systems.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u178	It'll all come in the spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u179	It'll come in the spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u180	I am already trying to have a bit of a discussion on this with the rulers today, but now that too is being postponed until spring. I find it truly regrettable that there can be no substantive response now. Why hasn't that need been met yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u181	Because this is a separate political discussion. You'll tell me how you're in it. I know the discussions with other political parties, which are different in this. For now, it's just not foreseen. There's no delay. It just wasn't foreseen. The Minister said she'd come up with proposals if the Chamber wanted to. I think that is also the right way forward. I have heard Mr Bosman and you very clearly. The others have not yet expressed their opinion on it. I believe that this requires political consideration. This has nothing to do with delay. This simply has to do with a political balance from the past, in which your Chamber has said it does not want to do so. If you want it to be different, then the debate will have to take place. At the Reaper we just found a gear. We've just been looking at how to get the Reaper operational as soon as possible. We went to the Americans to see if we could do it faster. I think it is important to note that, unlike a few years ago, when the Reaper was really pushed forward in the long term, we really accelerated, also because we have some extra money. It is precisely because of the contacts with the supplier that we have managed that, so we can now do the work on Leeuwarden.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u182	It is important to note that we purchased the Reaper in a DNP procedure, in which the unwavering was appointed. So I get that. What scares me for a moment is the middle line, which is that it will soon be merged into the autonomous systems. We must prevent that, because the Reaper is not an autonomous system. If we're gonna have that discussion, I'm gonna love it before that story comes along. I would be very sorry if the Reaper suddenly appeared on the board of the autonomous systems, because it is not. We all note that the Reaper is a piloted aircraft for which a kite is present, but it's somewhere else. So it's not an autonomous system. I hope that's taken away.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u183	Yes. It is right that Mr Bosman should say so. It wasn't in the needs identified by the Chamber. That's the frame you gave DOD for the purchase.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u184	I'll come back to the raincoats of the squadron High Risk Security people, including the Marechaussee here. It is of course a matter of course that raincoats should be waterproof. There's no question about that. But what's the problem here, and that's what you see when you come here or sprint from the station when it rains hard, is that the ladies and gentlemen of the Marechaussee have to wring themselves in all sorts of turns under shelters and the like, because the raincoats that the Secretary of State is talking about are not appropriate. Among other things, they don't fit over the vest they need to wear because it's high-risk guards. It is not so much a waterproof raincoat, but a raincoat that they can actually use in their work. That is not the case to this day.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u185	I just indicated they don't have a raincoat, but a waterproof coat. We have looked at raincoats and raincoats that question has been explicitly asked, but it has come out that they cannot be fitted, precisely because of the fact that you can see for yourself outside that they have armament, that they must be operational and that they must be able to have speed. That is why a completely different solution was chosen: not raincoats, but waterproof jackets. Of course everyone, regardless of whether you have a waterproof jacket or not, is that when it starts to plen your automatic reaction is that you are going to be under a shelter. That's what I'd do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u186	I don't know if that's everyone's automatic response or should be. Well, that depends. But do I hear the Secretary of State say that people are actually very satisfied with the solution that has been chosen? We hear other signals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u187	I have put this question very strongly, also in connection with the debate. We often have the discussion about The Commander in his power in this Chamber. So we have also specifically asked these questions to the commander: is there a need, are there any signals? The answer to that was "no." Of course, it can always be the case that someone is dissatisfied. For I have noticed one thing in the last two years: the emotion when it comes to clothing or boots. What one is very happy about, the other is not at all happy about. So I really don't rule out the fact that there are people who don't like the jacket, as is the case with combat boots. We're trying to meet that. I just indicated that we can see if we can come up with a choice package, so that not everyone has to have the same combat boots. That's what we're gonna roll out in the next few years. So I do not rule out the fact that someone is not satisfied, but we have tried to ensure that people can always be operational, even outside. We found that with these jackets and that was also the most practical solution. We haven't received any signals from the commander that there's a need for anything else. Then I want to continue with the real estate. Mr Van Helvert asked for that. He also asked me if my calculation is correct. That's right. We're about 300 million short a year. If you spread that out in 20 years, you're gonna be 6 billion. 270 million is for investment and 30 million is for conservation. We're still validating it. We'll see if our calculations are correct, see if we've got a good look at everything. It also indicates where we come from and where we stand. But we won't be able to solve this at once. It really takes a longer period to put this right. In this budget, however, we have chosen to make some extra allowances when it comes to accelerating it. This is because of the safety of our people, but also from the point of view of good employership. And you're trying to fix up army buildings that are in real condition as soon as possible. In previous debates on this subject, we have also looked at whether our real estate portfolio, which is quite strong, is still as efficient as possible everywhere. That's also part of the strategic real estate plan. We're working on that now. Mr Van Helvert also asked: are you prepared to look at the climate funds and whether you can make a good link there? I think that's a very good suggestion we'd like to take a closer look at, including with the National Real Estate Company, which, of course, does the management for us. Because Defence is the largest real estate owner in the Netherlands. We are also the largest when it comes to all the civil cars that run from the government, precisely because of the fact that we are such a large implementation organisation. If we can make use of the money available there, we will certainly do so to see if we can create a win-win situation. I think what Mr Van Helvert has said fits well into that. Then sustainability. A number of questions have been asked about this by Mrs Belhaj and Mrs Diks. The nitrogen problem also affects the Defense Department. Because we are everywhere in the Netherlands and have airports, ports, real estate and practice areas everywhere, we are looking at this. The cabinet letter of 4 October also provided insight into the list of defence projects that may be affected by this. We're exploring what that means right now. Mr Schouten also informed you last week about all the measures being taken to see if we can reach a solution. The most important thing is that we also work in the province to see what is needed for that. But it will have absolute influence. Mrs Belhaj asked: can you confirm once again that the targets of the Defence Energy and Environment Strategy for 2030 are standing? Yes. That's what I reported last week. As you know, we are now further shaping the goals to see what is needed in concrete terms. We will send you that plan of action as soon as possible, so that you can understand what is needed. Mr Van Helvert and Mrs Belhaj urged that we also look at what is already being done within the government when it comes to the Climate Agreement and Urgenda, at the various measures that are already being taken, and to ensure that you can achieve as much effect as possible within Defence. In any case, we will make you understand, as we did with the real estate, where we stand, what is needed in view of our goals towards 2030 and 2050, and what that means financially, so that you can also understand it. Then I think I've finished the block of equipment, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u188	Mr Kerstens, briefly and pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u189	I almost wanted to say, as you're used to me. When it comes to the purchase of equipment, I referred to the new decision in Germany. Germany has indicated that it is no longer always going to launch a European tender. I actually asked the Secretary of State to follow my lead. What does she say?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u190	We took a look at it. We're also studying it, of course. There really is a bill, so we need to take a look at what that bill means. As we judge it now, it is actually similar to the Netherlands, because they also refer to a 2015 policy paper on key technologies. We discussed this with you in the CIS. So we do not really see a difference in that sense, but we are going to see what the legislative proposal means and what it means. Mr Van Helvert, Mr Bosman and Mr Voordewind said: create a level playing field. I think that's a relevant element. I therefore propose that we return to this subject at a subsequent substantive meeting. If there are things in it that concern us, given the DIS and the level playing field, then we will look at it. If necessary, we will also discuss it with our German colleagues ourselves. Because, of course, we want as much as possible an open playing field and a level playing field within Europe as we do in the DIS................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Mr. Chairman. Then I want to go to the last block. I think that we can conclude quickly and possibly take the lunch break. Mr Voordewind asked: how do we ensure that the Dutch industry is actually anchored? In fact, we have also had this little debate on the question of submarines. He called on us to make sure that we do. I also indicated to you that we are doing so. In every recruitment process we look at the DIS and take it as a starting point. I mentioned the example of the M-frigates and the combat support ships. You can also read this in the letters about the considerations we always make in that regard. I sent it to your room. Of course, if we can call on Article 3.4.6 and that fits within the CIS, we will do so. We are also looking with the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Climate Policy at how we can best shape industrial participation if we do not apply Article 3.4.6, but do it in a different way, albeit with the involvement of Dutch industry as much as possible. The Secretary of State for Economic Affairs sends the reports to the Chamber so that she can understand how industrial participation and what has been achieved in this area. For example, the F-35 seems to me to be a good example of this. I have just replied to Mr Kerstens' question by saying that I will come back to that. Mr Bosman called for the adaptive force to be deployed. I think it is good to realize that the stakes and hires of reserveists have increased by 1 million. Meanwhile, the total number of reservists accounts for about 10% of the workforce, so, as rightly said, it is not a separate thing anymore, but just a real part of our team Defence. We'd like to continue with that. We sent you the letter about the cyber-reservist pilot, but also about what we do with reservists at all. I want to broaden that, so not just look at reservists, but at flexibilisation at all. And that is a positive word, I say to Mrs Karabulut. You want to do as much customization as possible and you do so by means of other forms of contract. To people who are willing to work for the Defense Department, you can offer contract forms that suit them and the times. They make it possible to work part-time as a military worker, something that is not possible within the current system. That is why we are looking at this, especially with business. The minister just gave examples of ways to get an adaptive force. How do you ensure that, if you need both construction workers, for example, who are called geneists, you do not compete with each other, but cooperate with each other? We are looking at how to ensure that the labour market is properly deployed. A good example is also the hospitals. How do you strengthen cooperation and how do you ensure that people who leave Defense have job security and not so much a guaranteed job at Defense? We'll make a deal about that. Last week I gave Mr Bosman the example of Volkel and Oirschot, where we make agreements with companies, but also with the government around them, in the form of a four-year contract with the Defense Department guaranteeing that you will have a job after that. Those are the possibilities we're looking at. As you also read last weekend in the NRC interview with the Commander of the Armed Forces, Defence has managed to make this kind of deal with more than 44 companies, also to see what we can offer each other and what we can learn from each other. The new staff model includes not doing everything alone anymore, but also seeing how you can work together in terms of both material and staff. I think I have answered the questions from the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u191	Short, Mr. Chairman. All right, positive. I'm getting excited about this story, but that makes sense if you know my history. What levels are all those reservists at? At work level, but also at policy level, i.e. at higher levels, it is essential that this knowledge, skill and way of working is incorporated into the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u192	Yeah, that's right. I know that several people in our board are also reservists. So you also have them at policy level.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u193	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u194	Mr. Stoffer, short, pointy?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u195	I don't think I've had two more questions answered. The first concerns the basic IT system GrIT. I asked the question when it was operational and what the budget was for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u196	Why don't we do that first?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u197	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u198	It has been included in the written reply, which is why I have not gone into it here anymore. As you know, GrIT started in 2015, also because of the fact that the IT infrastructure had to be completely replaced. The last BIT opinion on this was the reason for me to say that this required rethinking to see if we are on the right track. The BIT opinion is critical. Your Chamber has itself appointed the BIT as your co-advisor who looks into major IT projects. Based on the last advice, I thought it was important to look at what we started and where we are now: shouldn't we see if we can recalibrate? I said in the debate with your Chamber that I am working out a number of scenarios and that I will return to you at the earliest in the spring, including with a decision on the direction we are going to take. Then you can also make that decision, including the finances that go with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u199	Your final question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u200	This is clear. I have a second question. It concerns the barracks in Doorn, that dot on the horizon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u201	Yeah, that was a question I forgot. In several debates on the Vlissingen barracks and the move from Doorn, you actually gave me two things, which I still take into account. First of all, in 2012 you established the order that Defence could no longer stay in Doorn. That was the first assignment. The second assignment was the move to Vlissingen. I've informed you that I'm carrying out that assignment. I also indicated that I have concerns about the outflow. The Minister and I have indicated this on several occasions, also in response to questions from the organisation. But you have also pointed out to me, even in several debates, that two things are important to you. The first was, as it is so beautifully called, a fit for purpose barracks. The second was participation, because we, the Defence Committee, have had our fingers crossed with regard to the role of participation in the process. You said: "Don't take any steps until you have completed these two matters properly." Mr Kerstens has also put forward a number of suggestions on the subject of a social agreement. I'm still working on those assignments. I do. In yesterday's or the day before yesterday's letter, I indicated that we are in a final phase of what this barracks looks like: what is this fit for purpose barracks? The second point is therefore the path of participation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u202	Very good. One more sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u203	Well, Mr. Chairman, I think I have plenty of room to ask two questions. But I'm not gonna do that. It's really about this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u204	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u205	What the Secretary of State points out is all true. That's what we got. That wasn't my question either. Actually, my question was finalizing, towards the end of the year: how far does it go? Does the Secretary of State expect to send us a real proposal in spring 2020 that will help Doorn, help the Marines and help Zeeland? Or is it still shooting over the summer recess of 2020? I want that concrete dot: when is something coming to us?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u206	As you know, I myself chose to bring the real estate into sight in the reporting to your Chamber. I'll finally come back to you with, as it's called, a D letter. In the end, you will be given the task you once gave in 2012 to work out these two things and also to indicate what this fit for purpose barracks looks like and what finances it includes, because you have given me a budget. The route has therefore been delayed for a year and a half, as I have also indicated to you. It will therefore be at the earliest in 2021, as I indicated in the reports. But in between, these steps should be heard. So once these steps are completed, there is certainty about what that barracks should look like. Then consortia can get back to work and finally that D letter comes out. But for that intermediate step it also applies that the planning is adjusted. The same applies to the certainty that can be given to the various parties involved, such as Zeeland and Utrecht.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u207	Very good. Thank you. You have your eight interruptions in the pocket, Mr. Stoffer. A double touchstone is an abomination to the Lord.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-3.u208	We are going to vote at 2.15 p.m. Then we have the arrangement of work and then we are going to listen to the second term of the Chamber. The votes at 2.15 p.m. are rather short and the rules are not very long either. Then we will proceed immediately with the second term of the Chamber and then you can submit motions to your heart's content.
