ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u1	The next item is the debate on responsibility for the year 2018. I would like to welcome the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance and the Minister of the Interior and Kingdom Relations. I give the floor to Mr Tony van Dijck as the first speaker to speak on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Today we look back at the year 2018, the first full year of the Rutte III cabinet. Honestly, they took the wind. The economy grew by 2.7% and unemployment fell to 3.8% before the crisis. 195.000 people found a job in 2018. But let's not forget that these people have rather lost their jobs because of the wrong policies of this same Mark Rutte. In fact, we're back to square one. Let us not forget that, despite this tense labour market, more than a million people are still on the sidelines. There's still 400,000 people on welfare. That number doesn't want to fall. There are still 250,000 people in the WW. How can you explain that? That is my first question to the Minister of Finance. Companies are desperate for staff and at the same time 650,000 people are in benefits. That's impossible, isn't it? Mr. Chairman. There is a satisfied Minister of Finance; you can see that. It's his ministry's money. It's his plinth. In 2018, he raised 285 billion in taxes. That's 14 billion more than a year earlier. And by 2019, this amounts to over 300 billion. We are paying 300 billion in taxes and premiums to this minister! In fact, there's so much money coming in that he can't even spend the money. Last year, 5.2 billion less was spent than budgeted. More than 2 billion is on the shelf for roads and defence, unspoiled. But the worst part is that at the beginning of this year the energy bill increased by €335, while now the accounts show that there is still 2.5 billion in subsidies for renewable energy to be wasted. What's that supposed to mean? I'll ask the Minister. However, the Spring Paper adds more money, for defence, for climate, for youth care. They all get an extra billion from this minister. If they can spend it, we'll see about that later. Can the Minister explain why he thinks they can spend that billion now? The crucial question for today is: why doesn't the citizens get anything from the Spring Note? Why isn't purchasing power being repaired? 'Cause we all see it's gonna be disappointing. Why are people systematically skipped and squeezed in this country? I don't understand. Why? The collective burden increased under Mark Rutte from 35.5% in 2010 to 39.6% now. In other words, the charges went up by 75 billion. A record! Instead of €1,000 there was more than €2,000 for each Dutchman. Mark Rutte and the VVD are therefore the burden champion of the Netherlands. Chapeau! Yet every year, this Prime Minister promises more purchasing power, without embarrassment. He shouts: every Dutchman will feel that the economical weather is improving, mark my words. He promises strong purchasing power pluses, which ultimately doesn't end up with anything. In 2017 we would improve 1%, and that was 0.3%. Half of the Netherlands went down on it. 2018 was a poor purchasing power year according to the Minister, with a small plus of 0.3%. Again, a third of the Netherlands' purchasing power, despite the booming economy. Cost winners, pensioners, they all turned in. And now, this year, we would finally feel it: 1.6%. Buy the car! I can still hear Mark Rutte say it. But this also turns out to be a big scam. Due to the many tax increases of this government on VAT and energy, inflation is much higher than expected and prices are now rising faster than wages. So, on balance, we're going back grossly. Then you can do two things as Minister of Finance: you can lower taxes, so people have more left in their wallets, or you can sit on your hands and hope the employers increase wages. This minister chooses the latter. That's easy. The promised additional purchasing power must therefore come from employers and not from this cabinet. And that while the surplus in the budget amounts to 11.3 billion. This minister is full of money, our money, our taxpayers' money. While many people can barely make ends meet, this minister sits like a Dagobert Duck counting his money in his warehouse. And in the meantime, promise everyone's gonna feel it and they're gonna feel better. But the people in the country don't feel anything at all, nothing at all. They feel they've been screwed over and over by this cabinet. Real disposable income has stopped since the beginning of this century. People are not getting a penny of all economic growth. Pensioners have turned in a lot of money in recent years, up to 15%. One and a half million families suffer from problematic debts. One in three Dutch people have serious money worries and zero euros in savings in 2019. So the citizens in this country are not doing well at all. The PVV wants the surplus of more than 11 billion to be largely returned to the citizens. It's their money. It's too much taxpayers' money. In addition, they were promised a purchasing power plus and promise makes debt. It can also be done if we reverse the VAT increase, eliminate the own risk and reduce the energy bill. This results in an additional €1,000 purchasing power for each household. That is the €1,000 promised earlier by Mr Rutte. That costs about 10 billion. We can easily pay this by not reducing the tax on profits for multinationals, because it is not necessary for anything, and partly by using the surplus. I shall table a motion on this matter in the second term. Mr. Chairman. What is striking about asylum and immigration? The cabinet wants us to believe that the asylum influx is under control, but nothing is less true. 37 000 asylum seekers were also welcomed in 2018. That's over 100 a day. On top of that, other migrants come through family migration, with the result that 90,000 non-Western migrants are admitted in one year: a city the size of Venlo and that every year. 90,000 non-Western migrants! Allowing all these people costs money, lots of money, money for care, money for education, money for police deployment, money for benefits, money for social housing. I want to know what this is going to cost the taxpayer every year. I ask every year and I never get an answer, because you can't know how much it costs, but we let 100,000 people in and we give them all benefits and a house. After all, they are entitled to that. Why can't we know that? I will stick to the asylum issue for a while, because the cabinet has also been crazy to let 80,000 Syrians in. While large parts of Syria are safe again, nothing happens to send those Syrians back. Of course, they don't want that either, because they're good here with social housing benefits. I also want to know: how much does this cost the taxpayer? This year, 10,000 Syrians are threatening to get a permanent residence permit because they are here for five years. And then, of course, you'll never get them out. So there's no time to lose. It's five to twelve. Either you send them back, or you're stuck with them for a lifetime. I therefore demand that this Minister withdraw their residence permit and return it, because they are desperately needed to build their own country later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u3	Thank you, Mr. Tony van Dijck. I now give the floor to Mr Van 't Wout on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Accountability day and the Accountability debate are an important and perhaps very Dutch tradition. As with more Dutch traditions, we can actually be very happy with that. In the meantime, it seems to be a tradition that the planning of the debate about it causes some problems every year. But it's a good thing we can be here today, including the Prime Minister. Welcome back. I think you've been in the Lower House all week.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u5	Been home for a while!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u6	Been home for a while, maybe teaching this morning. Mr. Chairman. In order to be able to conduct this debate, of course, we owe a great deal of thanks to the General Court, which has done an incredible amount of work to look through all these government figures and see if it is right and the money is well spent. It's a good thing they did that again this year. Mr. Chairman. Suppose, as an unborn child, you could choose in which country in the world you would be born. You don't know what your parents do or where they come from, but you can choose where in the world you want to be born. I am convinced that almost all children, if they had that choice, would choose the Netherlands. After all, we are one of the richest, most prosperous countries in the world. But also much wider than all these economic things, this is one of the best countries in the world to live. We see it in all the lists. We also see it in the Monitor Brede Prosperity and when it comes to things like well-being and happiness. I believe that we are even the longest people in the world, and if I look at the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister, that could be right. Mr. Chairman. Our first challenge is, of course, to maintain that fantastic position that the Netherlands has in the world. That's what we've been hired to do as politicians. The second is that we must of course bear in mind that behind all these wonderful macro figures there are still enough Dutch people with daily worries and daily problems. We must fight every day for this, too, in order to respond to these problems and concerns. Mr. Chairman. It's a cliché, but clichés are clichés because they're true, but the world is changing at an enormous rate. In many areas, this will constantly pose new questions and challenges. I would like to ask the cabinet a few more questions later on in my speech. Mr. Chairman. If we want to maintain this fantastic position of the Netherlands in the world, we will only succeed if we work together, nationally and internationally, if we cross differences, dare to compromise, and also take measures and make choices that may not be the same popularity price. In the end, I think that people only have something to do with politicians who do not just comment but do things, above all. The PVV now feels for a wonderful reason called to come forward!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u7	Yes. Mr. Tony van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u8	The PVV also wants to maintain that fantastic position that the VVD talks about. But do you think it helps to let 100,000 non-Western immigrants in every year, to give them a benefit and a home and to leave them in the classes, people who don't speak the language? Do you think it will help to maintain that fantastic position of the Netherlands if you allow 500,000 non-Western immigrants to enter in five years?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u9	What helps is, I think, that you have politicians and a cabinet doing what is possible to give people who are fleeing war and violence a place here, doing what is possible to get them to work as quickly as possible and provide for their own maintenance and doing what is possible to let people, as soon as possible, go back to their country of origin. That is much more complex than we would sometimes want, but when I look at the debates we have had in recent years, I was just going to say something about it and when I look at where we were on that file a few years ago, I notice that a lot of work has been done. Here too, we will have to fight hard to do this. By the way, in all these figures, you also bring the people we desperately need, for example the knowledge workers at ASML. I take it the PVV doesn't intend to kill that fantastic company by saying that all these people are not allowed to come here anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u10	You let 80,000 Syrians in in a few years. You let 100,000 non-Western immigrants in a year. The statistics prove it: 60% of those people are on the benefit, two thirds of those young people are in contact with the police. Those are all statistics that these people are not really an asset to our society. You're talking about maintaining that fantastic position, but you shouldn't let those people in. Then you just have to stop those people at the border. You're not doing your best to send them back, because you'd be signing my motion to send back 10,000 Syrians this year before they get a permanent residence status. But you won't. You're handing out passports. You're handing out residence permits. You're passing out benefits.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u11	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u12	You're handing out social rentals. You're sinterklaas, you're handing out and you're not in favour of maintaining that fantastic position. You're ruining the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u13	What's your question, Mr. Van Dijck?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u14	Why does the VVD do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u15	It cannot be both: that it is such a huge mess among governments that the VVD is part of and that we have become such a beautiful country. That can't be both. I do not deny, and I don't think anyone in this Chamber anymore, that we have very big challenges in terms of integration and immigration. But I just said something I'd like to say back to the PVV. If we want to keep this country as beautiful as it is, it requires cooperation, not only nationally but above all internationally. The solution to put a kind of wall around the Netherlands will be detrimental to the total prosperity of this country. This is something you need to solve at European level. I have never seen the PVV take one step to contribute anything to that. Mr. Chairman. This is one such theme, when I think back since I joined the Chamber in 2012... On a lot of things, we have almost the opposite debate as we did seven years ago. I've been a spokesperson of concern. I've been a spokesperson of social affairs. On the issue of care, I then had very heavy debates on very difficult measures that we had to take to get the government housekeeping booklet back in order. During my period as a spokesperson for the labour market, we were talking about the big issue of how to reduce the steep rise in unemployment. With all the nuances, Mr Van Dijck also said something about the many people who are still on the sidelines. We are even having the debate on how to get rid of the extra money that is available. The biggest problem in the labour market is no longer the enormous unemployment, but the huge number of vacancies and how we are going to get them fulfilled. Mr. Chairman. In 2018, the year that we are talking about here in particular, Mr Van Dijck mentioned just now that the unemployment rate dropped by 3.8%. I repeat after him: those are 195,000 people who found a job. He just made a comparison with a city when it comes to immigrants. I make a comparison with a city: 195,000 people at work, that are more people than living in Breda or Amersfoort. Mr. Chairman. The sovereign debt may be a somewhat less imaginative or sexy subject, but important for how we leave this country for our children... fell to 52.4%. There was a surplus of 1.5% in the budget and the economy grew by 2.7%. This was also mainly due to the fact that households consumed much more. Mr. Chairman. The macro figures are therefore simply good, but these macro figures are of course not an end in themselves. I don't think anyone, except perhaps some real economists and economists in this room, will come home cheering when the AIQ has risen. It's mainly about what that means for people at the kitchen table, for those people who take care of their family and their children day in the morning, getting up early to get to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u16	The VVD comes with all green numbers and then nuances it again. Happy, I'd like to say. But I also know the VVD as a modest party about the role in society. To what extent does the VVD think that these beautiful figures are due to the VVD? You could hear that a bit between the lines, but I suspect the VVD doesn't look that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u17	If things are going well with a society like ours, it is in the first place always thanks to all those inhabitants who put their shoulders on every day. To the small and medium-sized enterprises that I know in recent years, many of them have lived almost below the level of assistance, but have nevertheless fought through. To the police officer who puts his life at risk at night to keep us safe. That is the first reason for this. I would like us to agree with the Socialist Party that we should be relative to what the government can do for people's happiness, because I am sure. But I also think that your party has been very critical in recent years that the government has a role to play in organising it in such a way that the country can achieve its full potential. I have just referred to the debates we have had over the last seven or eight years. I think there has been a sensible policy. I am proud that we have been part of that as a VVD, with many others, I say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u18	It's not like I'm looking at the government like that, but I'm surprised the VVD...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u19	That's what I was afraid of.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u20	Well, you must have noticed that. I am surprised that the VVD says, if things go badly, that we are here to help you, and even though things are bad, we are now going to pursue sensible policies. That's what the VVD says now. But then you're gonna show off the good grades. I would say that despite the VVD, the country is doing well. It goes well thanks to the SMEs and thanks to the agents working hard day in, day out and indeed keeping the Netherlands running, despite the VVD. Because even if I ask the cabinet what I did in the actual round of questions, the effect of the incompetence of the cabinet to spend this money and the resources that are now available to repair the damage caused by Rutte I and Rutte II, the cabinet admits that this has had a negative effect on growth in the Netherlands. So if this cabinet had been able to invest in the future of the country and restore purchasing power, it would have gone even better.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u21	What's the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u22	Does the VVD share the view that things had gone even better in the Netherlands and the recovery would have been even faster if not the VVD but a more social party had been at the helm?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u23	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u24	Before I give you the floor, I say the following. Everyone has, of course, entered into extensive speaking time, and that is also fine. But these speaking times are mainly intended for your own input, and I would ask you to keep the interruptions short and concise, to really ask a question and not to give a very long introduction to every interruption. I'm not looking at you, because it's not personal or anything, but I'm looking at all the spokesmen. Is this a deal? Yeah? Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u25	I summarize the question in such a way that Mr Alkaya is actually asking whether the country would have been better off with the SP in the cabinets of the past period. I would venture to doubt that. Mr. Chairman. I was talking about what the macro figures mean and that meaning for people in their daily lives is the most important thing. What these macro figures mean is especially important for the broad middle class that we fortunately still have in the Netherlands. I would also like to say a few words about this in a moment. That broad middle class is so crucial to our society. Then I come to a point that Mr Van Dijck also touched in his speech. An important ambition of this cabinet, which is also a reason for the VVD to participate in this coalition, is that after very difficult years of crisis we also want people to really feel that we are making progress. There is much to nuance about purchasing power figures and what they really mean. There was once a fantastic film by Arjen Lubach, in which the entire system behind purchasing power was dissected. You may not age a day for a whole year, among other things. That is complex, but of course this is an indicator that we must use. It's also good that we have it. The second nuance is that the question whether you are doing well and whether the country is doing well is, of course, wider than what is happening in your wallet. That is why I think it is right that this cabinet invests heavily in all kinds of things that we all consider important in our daily lives, whether it is about security, good care for your parents or grandparents or good education for your children. We all have to take that into account, but then there is the fact that the increase in purchasing power in the last year is simply disappointing. That may not even be so crazy, because that was the first year in which the policy could have any effect in that sense. The signals we see for this year, apart from the figures, are still not entirely reassuring. Fortunately, the last message I saw was about wage increases, a little better than what we saw in April, but more is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u26	In the first part I could go a nice way with the colleague of the VVD, but he arrives at a point where I have lost it. He actually says that the government's policy has not yet led to an improvement in purchasing power. Can the colleague of the VVD explain a little more what that policy was to ensure that not economic growth increased but that people would actually feel this in their wallet?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u27	I am going to go into this a little more detail for the years to come. As far as 2018 is concerned, I think everyone here agrees that we would have preferred to have seen more increase than that 0.3% of purchasing power, but that is the next point I wanted to make. I think the government and this cabinet really took their share there. This also applies when you see what we are doing over the next few years, with a significant reduction in the burden, especially for citizens: EUR 5 billion is one of the biggest relief packages of the last decade. My point, that I also want to make later, is that as a government we should not just constantly look where you can reduce those burdens even further. For example, I think it is very good that the cabinet has already announced that it wants to do something about the increase in the energy bill in the near future, but that progress cannot come from the government alone. It will also have to come from business. I can now continue with my speech, but perhaps there is one question left.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u28	I don't think it's that complicated. Last year, we saw how the cabinet members took advantage of each other, how they put each other's feathers in the well-known place to show that everyone, 94% or 96%, would make progress. That just didn't happen. People do see the growth of the economy, by 2.7%, but the government can never determine what inflation is and what wage developments are. And so that promise that was made with very big words is that I have seen Mrs Ollongren do it in a talk show: "Yes, everyone is getting better" just didn't live up to it. How does the VVD colleague look at this promise, which makes people say: I'm getting cynical of politics, because things are going really well and the companies are doing really well, but in my wallet I don't see that in my wallet?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u29	We are very pleased in the Netherlands that we have independent agencies that provide us with figures on how the country is doing. Whether it's the CPB or the Nibud, they come up with numbers that say people are getting better. Those are always predictions that can be bad or bad. We've seen both of them in recent years. But my plea is: there is still work to be done. I was just about to say something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u30	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u31	It is said that the Netherlands is the most beautiful country to live in. I fully endorse that; we are doing very well. The spokesperson says: the VVD has contributed a lot to this. But if I then become critical and ask why the promised purchasing power development has not become true, he says: that was because of the independent institutions, which have made the wrong calculation. Yes... That's looking away.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u32	I'm not saying that at all. I am just saying that they provide us with figures and that we see a little progress in this last year and a little more progress in the coming year. You always have that kind of figures, as you yourself say, that also do not influence factors. In recent years we have seen that sometimes it is more and sometimes less. My plea is that there's still work to be done for the government. Then it's about making the promise that the energy bill will go down soon. This will always remain the focus of the VVD, every financial year, every year that you look at whether there is room for some relief, especially for middle incomes. But it can't just come from there. If you really want progress in the wallet, you have to make sure people get to work. That has gone well for the past year. The 195.000 people who went from benefit to work are not reflected in purchasing power statistics. But at home level a lot has happened there, apart from the great happiness that it brings when you get back to work. That's what you need to keep going. But there is another point, which you have already touched and on which I agree with you in part. I think we can really ask companies to take their responsibilities where they can, and now also to raise wages. I believe that this is in the interests of business itself and is good for the stability of society and for the satisfaction of staff. Then I understand very well that this is really not possible anywhere and that certainly the smaller companies, which have had very difficult years, do not do so. But... Maybe I can finish this before Mr. Nijboer interrupts. I've heard the cabinet makes that call to companies, too. I refer to Minister Hoekstra and Minister Wiebes, as well as Prime Minister Rutte. We really must continue to appeal to the business community.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u33	I've argued for this myself before. The VVD wasn't ready by then. I am therefore pleased that the VVD is making this appeal to the business community. I'd like to ask you about the role of the government. On the one hand, you have tax cuts. They're in income tax. At the same time, this cabinet also increased VAT and increased the energy bill. You can reverse that, but of course that hasn't been so great. And as a government, you're an employer. The salary increase for teachers has been very limited. They don't get what they deserve. Does the VVD want to do something about those two cases? Or do you stick to a call to business?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u34	I'm sure I'd like to do something about the energy bill. That's what the Cabinet has announced. Secondly, you ask: we are also a very large employer; can't you do more there? I understand that argument, regardless of whether there is a financial space for something, not only because we all appreciate the professions we are talking about, but also because the potential can work well as an example for the rest of society. What if there's room for this kind of thing? Then my consideration would always be a bit like this. You can spend it very specifically through the wages of people working in the collective sector. But of course there are also a lot of people at the same level of pay who do not work in the government. You can also spend that money to do something there, through rather targeted relief. We will have to look at the budget for what there is room for, and then see if there is a great balance to be struck, but my tendency would be to see if we could do something that would benefit all people, both in the collective and in the non-collective sector, rather than bet everything on wage increases in the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u35	I'm really excited about parts of this, because for the VVD, of course, it's always been the first time in recent times: locational climate; relief for companies is extremely important. And now the VVD says: wages must rise, because middle income suffers. I very much agree with him. But if Mr. Van 't Wout's appeal is followed and companies raise wages, then the government should do the same, shouldn't it? Then the government has to contribute its share to that, don't it? Surely it would be unreasonable to say to all the people in the market sector: pay should be raised, but we as a government do not pay for that? So I'm asking you to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u36	Then I'll come up with the same answer. Of course, this is one of those wishes that you almost agree with when you don't have to pay the bill. I can imagine. If there is financial space in the near future, I would give priority to this broad relief, but I also understand the plea to look at the role of the government as an employer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u37	Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u38	This is, of course, not the debate either, Mr President, because I take this seriously in which we are dealing with the budget, but I am not automatically saying no to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u39	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u40	That's good to hear, otherwise the call would be a little gratuitous. I believe there's room at the VVD, and we'll try to use it on the spring note.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u41	Mr Tony van Dijck, a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u42	A brief question, Mr. Chairman. I'm a little tired of the VVD crying about the citizens: we are so proud of the citizens and they earn lower taxes and more money in the wallet. But since the VVD, the burden has been structurally increased by 75 billion. That's what the citizens feel; not that nice talk, but what's actually happening in their wallet. Now we see for the third year in a row that purchasing power is disappointing. What are you gonna do with the Spring Note? Are you going to fix something now or are the promises for 2020 again?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u43	There is a whole coalition agreement, partly implemented and partly still to be implemented, including in the case of reduction of charges, for example. Last year, not all of them were affected. With each budget, we will fight to see where that can be done; I have just said that. We've already said we're going to do something about the energy bill. But we also need to see what time we're coming from. I am well aware that there is a great deal of demand from a lot of people in this country, but I think we have come out of it in a healthy way. Secondly, in many debates, I also see the PVV attach great importance to all kinds of issues on which we as a government spend money, such as care. That money will also have to be taken from somewhere, and the budget must also be final.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u44	The crisis has been paid for by the citizens; that is well known. Now it's getting better. In 2017, there was an upward trend, with 2.5% growth. What do the citizens get? 0.3%. Half of the Netherlands is declining. Then 2018. What do the citizens get? 0.3%. A third of the Netherlands is declining. What are they getting this year? Because of the VVD's policy with that stupid VAT increase, inflation blows up and they fall back into purchasing power. This is the third year in a row! Who do you still believe? You say that the citizens must feel it. Everyone agrees. Then there are all the signs that the citizens aren't gonna feel it, and what are you doing? You're talking about 2020 again. But then the boom is over and you say: yes, now it can't be anymore. For example, citizens are being systematically fooled under VVD policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u45	I think this is really easy talk, to be honest. There is still progress in today's figures as well. And yes, VAT has been increased, but you are constantly pulling one thing out of a whole package of measures. This is part of a package which also significantly reduces the burden on labour. And where more can be done: yes, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u46	I would like to make a brief comment on this. The VVD says that we need to look at the budgetary space to really restore people's purchasing power. But today, we are conducting the Accountability debate. Looking back, we can at least see that it did not happen in 2018 if the VVD had promised, or as promised and people were told, and that there was a budget surplus. What is the VVD's view of the fact that there is both a surplus of 11.3 billion euros on the shelf and that the promise of purchasing power has not been fulfilled?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u47	In this question, I think there is a plea for a fine distribution of surpluses. That sounds very attractive, but I think that we in the Netherlands can be very happy that we have a fiscal policy where we reserve a part in years when there are strong windfalls, so that we can cope with that in years when things are less. Our sovereign debt is still at the pre-crisis level. All these difficult debates a few years ago, to which I referred, were partly due to the fact that there were insufficient buffers to deal with a crisis. I think it is very sensible to keep a little eye on the moment when things can go a little less. The uncertainty in the world is enormous. Look at Brexit, what Trump is doing and you name it. The CPB also warns that it could be a little less economical. I get that you don't get cheering people in a square when you use windfalls for the state debt, but I'll take that for my hood, because I don't want to have to explain in ten years why we didn't make sure that we had a little sensible policy at this good time, which means we have to do whole rabbit stuff.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u48	With all due respect, but the VVD is now reacting like it's a black and white story, like you have to spend that 11.3 billion in its entirety or save it all. Surely the VVD can well admit that part of that 11.3 billion could have been spent by the cabinet to work on more purchasing power recovery for those who have turned in for years? That doesn't mean that you can't build anything at all for the years in which the weather is going to be a crisis. Surely part of that 11.3 billion could have been used for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u49	In theory, anything can happen, but I think this is wise. Moreover, as you may know, we have already said in the past that, as far as we are concerned, we can still look at the volume of windfalls that we had in the previous cabinet. But that is a discussion that we should start again with the budget. Of course, in theory, anything can happen, but then you probably get ten times a small part. I think that this cabinet has a sensible budgetary policy. I think it's still wise. I understand that it is not very nice that we are doing everything we can to bring public debt to a responsible level, if only because we have still lost EUR 6 billion a year in interest. I'd rather spend it on other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u50	I do the Responsibility debate for the first time, but I do not think that we should look back on the cabinet policy of 2018 and say: in theory everything can be done. Yeah, in theory, anything can happen. We're all pretty quick to agree on that. Then we would not have to have this debate. But we have to deal with the government on the basis of the policy that has been pursued. The result is that one in three people turned in purchasing power as the economy grew. In addition, there was a budget surplus of 11.3 billion. Surely the VVD should have an opinion on that? The VVD can say that it was too much and that it could have been a little less, or that it is fine that the purchasing power has been left behind and that the money has gone to the repayment of the public debt?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u51	No, I think it's very good that 195,000 people got a job last year. This is also because we have been pursuing a sensible financial policy for many years. That's why we have a strong economy that makes that possible. Of course everyone always wants more everywhere, but politics is making choices in scarcity. I think that there has been a sensible policy over the past year and that, as I have said a few times, there can be a step further where it is possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u52	However, I would like to continue on the point that people have been promised an improvement in purchasing power and that this has been called very loudly on TV, which also brought that on to the cabinet, but that it was then again not realised. If colleagues are asked whether we could not do something for the people, then there is a reference to this being sensible and subject to all kinds of rules. Then it's said we need to examine it first. I never understand that so well, because it's a promise that's been made. In that sense, it has not been said: pay attention, dear people, if purchasing power is lagging behind and if inflation, which we ourselves have caused to some extent, is increasing, then you actually have nothing in your wallet. I would like to ask my colleague in the VVD why he wants to give a company like Shell or Unilever so easily 2 billion structuralally out of that row, without any justification? That was defended here as if this was the most important thing that had to happen, but without any justification. Then it was possible: 2 billion! If we look now, we can see that Unilever has gone from 6 billion profits to 9 billion profits over the past year. They didn't need this at all. Why do you want to give the multinationals that 2 billion right away, but the people 0.3%?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u53	In the whole picture of this coalition agreement, EUR 5 billion of relief goes to citizens. If you look at the whole package and what's coming towards us, I think there's a very neat division between what you do for businesses and for citizens. You're gonna need those companies. We just need the baker and the butcher on the corner. They need to be given the space to do their job and to give many new jobs, just like the 195.000 people that happened to this last year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u54	Short question, Mr. Azarkan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u55	Surely the VVD colleague cannot insist that there is a good balance between what is given to citizens and to businesses, especially to multinationals? I gave the example of Mrs Cornelissen during the budget: 2013 -6,3% for her pension, 2014 0%, 2015 0%, 2016 0%, 2017 0% and 2018 0% and she still has to expect a reduction. Is that what the VVD calls balanced with a company like Unilever, for which 2 billion is allocated? The profits of that company are rising from 6 billion to 9 billion. And Mr Van 't Wout says: we find that balanced; in this country we deal with the distribution of prosperity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u56	No. I have indicated what the burden of this coalition agreement looks like. I think there's a balance in that. Of course, it's a lot more than one company. Mr Azarkan knows that too. There is no section here in the tax system that focuses specifically on one company. By the way, I might be able to meet Mr Azarkan in part, because I do think that we should ask the companies that are doing well to make sure that their employees actually benefit from it. That's what I just said. The theme, the question of whether people benefit from economic growth and from growing corporate profits, has been the subject of much debate lately, even outside this Chamber. Many economists are getting a little confused about how wage developments are lagging behind economic growth, especially in such a tight labour market. I'm sure this isn't just a little thing you can solve with a magic wand. I do think that this is one of the issues that we need to address in the longer term. The advantage is that in the Netherlands things are still relatively better than in other countries, because this is an issue that is in many economies. I was just talking about the not-so-sexy concept of "AIQ." It will rise again in this cabinet period. What we see happening more violently in other countries is the result of trends. I think we should be aware that these trends are coming at us just as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u57	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u58	Yeah, I was talking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u59	I thought you were still answering Mr Azarkan's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u60	That, of course, flows into one another, Mr President. The interruptions always fit exactly where I wanted to go in my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u61	I thought I'd watch the speaking time a little bit, but this is fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u62	Mr. Chairman. I know we're looking back here on 2018, but I think that, in line with the things we're less satisfied about, it's appropriate to hit this theme for the longer term. I see that this cabinet is carrying out a number of studies on the layout of our country in the longer term. The Borstlap Committee looks at the labour market. It is also about several investigations into a new tax system being carried out. It is also a question of research that is looking at where there is budgetary space for the future. I ask the cabinet if it can ensure that, when we have all these investigations together, a little bit of an integral look will be taken into account. Can these studies include in particular the question of how we can respond to this important question of how the broad middle class in our country is going? How can we ensure that economic growth and progress in companies are more balanced with what happens in wages? I'd like a response from the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the annual report itself, on which I would like to make three points. It is, of course, wonderful that there is a positive statement from the General Court, but of course we should not expect anything else. There is some cause for concern, because we see that the margin is still somewhat smaller than last year. The Court of Auditors also states that it could not have just issued that approving statement if the rules that will be applied next year had already applied to an approving statement. I cannot imagine that this finance minister would want to go down in history next year as the prime finance minister who will not be able to make a positive statement to the Chamber this century. I'd like to hear from him how he's going to prevent that. I am very concerned about the image of this Minister of Finance, you will understand. We need to keep that a little firm. Mr. Chairman. A second point that the Court of Auditors is calling a lot of attention to is the State's human resources policy, if only because this is one of the reasons why there is no money spent on some of the things we would have liked to spend money on. Everyone understands that in a tight labour market, you can't just open a can of people everywhere. But the Court of Auditors points out that there is a broader problem with the government. Look at the composition of the workforce and the understanding of what is needed in the future. Some parts of the government compete with each other. I would like to hear from the Minister of the Interior, who is here anyway, what she is going to do with those conclusions of the Court of Auditors. And then the most important point from the reports we have received this year, namely everything related to ICT and, in particular, information security. I think this belongs to the same minister. We have long known that the marriage between government and ICT projects is generally not the happiest, to express it euphemistically. Here too, there is some understanding that this takes time. But, frankly, there is less of that understanding when it comes to information security. It is crucial that it is in order in the government. We have civilian records. We have to be sure they're just safe. I am shocked by what the Court of Auditors is saying about it again this year, up to the point that the Foreign Office is apparently about to close diplomatic posts, because the security of computer systems is not in order, to mention just one. This is all the worse because this isn't the first time. Two years ago, my colleague, Mr De Vries, tabled a motion which was widely supported. Last year, the whole Chamber said that this really must be over. But it has become more than in the past year. That's just really not good. I do not think we can afford to wait again for what the Court of Auditors is going to tell us about this next year. There are things in here that just can't go wrong, so we don't have that time. As far as I am concerned, before the summer, the Minister will present a convincing plan on how to deal with this, with the date on which this should be done, not when the next report from the Court of Auditors will be presented, but just 1 January of the following year. I do not think it is too much to ask as a Chamber to be reported on in the interim. I also welcome the fact that the Minister for the Interior, who is coordinating on this issue, is present at this debate. That's a first signal. I assume that this is also mainly because of this theme. Finally, Mr President. I think it is very good that we have institutions in this country such as the Court of Auditors and our planning agencies. In this country, we really count everything to two digits behind the decimal place. This leads to great transparency and accountability for the use of the large amount of taxpayers' money collected here. It may not always be the most exciting reading to take, but it is important, because transparency and accountability are at the heart of our democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u63	Thank you. Mr Van Raan has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u64	I listened with great attention to Mr Van 't Wout's speech. Because in the Responsible debate the Monitor Brede Welvaart is also quite central, I was actually waiting for Mr Van 't Wout's reflection on the sustainability of the current economic system. The Monitor Brede Prosperity stands in the red for two crucial issues in particular: the Living Planet Index and cumulative CO emissions. This can still be linked to the fact that the current economic system requires 2.8 globes as the whole world would live as the Netherlands. I wonder if Mr Van 't Wout can say anything about that, because the Monitor Brede Welvaart actually says that what we have done and doing is not sustainable. Maybe he can say something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u65	First of all, thank you for this interruption, because if I have said too little at all about the appreciation for the Broad Prosperity Monitor, then this offers me an opportunity to correct that. I think Mr Van Raan will agree with me that the great picture that emerges from this is that our country is doing very well now and later. He mentions the specific indicators. This cabinet is doing more than any previous cabinet to do everything it can to pass on our climate for the future to our children. I think that the monitor is merely an incentive to carry on with it in a sensible way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u66	Then you're so incredibly fooling yourself that it's almost impossible to make that clear in an interruption right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u67	You will have a time limit for your own speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u68	I'm here to make a promise to Mr Van 't Wout. I hope he will record it and that we will talk about it once, because he is so incredibly wrong. So I'd like to talk to him about that at another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u69	I'd be happy to accept that invitation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u70	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Snels on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u71	Mr. Chairman. In his presentation, the President of the General Court referred to the film Memento to make it clear that, to really know what the influence of government policy is, you have to find a lot of puzzle pieces from the present and the past together. In the preparation of this debate, I myself saw the film Groundhog Day. The same day is constantly being experienced, while the main player is becoming more and more unhappy. This is my third Day of Accountability and I'm actually standing here a bit like I was here last year and the year before it was called "Groundhog Day" and with the same questions. How are we going to connect the Broad Prosperity Monitor, which is translated into concrete policy objectives set out in the budget and the policy plans and accounted for in the annual report? What were the objectives of government policy? How effective has the policy been to achieve these goals? And what have we learned? This is an important debate because we need to be able to tell citizens whether taxpayers' money is well spent. The MBO students at the V-100 asked a lot of these kinds of accountability questions. What goals of the Quality Framework Nursing Care were achieved in 2018 and how did you measure this? Can you explain why you have not managed to attract sufficient staff to the police and what have been the consequences for security in 2018? What are your plans to improve the image of the MBO and how are you going to give MBOs more opportunities for an internship? They're typical questions of accountability. The objectives are to be linked to the indicators on social inequality, safety or health care from the Broad Prosperity Monitor and should have a relationship with policy initiatives from the budget. But often neither the goals, nor the policy, nor the learning effect can be found; at least not systematically. Last year the Prime Minister was quite brief about the Monitor Brede Prosperity: nice project, but no more than that, because the government is not a lucky machine. But it is exactly as the Court states: government policy affects our lives. Surely the public authorities should be able to answer fully about the effects of policies? The Minister of Finance spoke on the Day of Accountability about the policy pursued in 2018. At his presentation and in the Financial Annual Report of the Empire, he spoke extensively about the good economic growth rates. But on Accountability Day and in the annual report, there is no mention of broad prosperity. What do we get for our taxpayers' money? That is actually the main question that we should be able to answer on this day. Can I refer as a GroenLinkser to one of our multinationals? DSM's prize-winning annual report explains broad objectives, not only financially, with a prominent place for the Sustainable Development Goals. The objectives have also been quantified. 75% of electricity purchased should be renewable by 2030. 80% to 90% of waste should be recycled by 2020. A frank chapter has also been added on what actually went wrong last year and what has been learned from it. This included incidents involving personnel, a data leak and water pollution in Peru. Why do big companies manage to report in full? Is the cabinet prepared to look at the best examples from the business community and learn something from them? Is the Cabinet prepared to make a plan of action to ensure that, in the long term, that is really an ideal situation; are we still far from that, to turn the broad prosperity into policy goals? The point is that we can be as concrete as possible in policy proposals and in the budget, and we can also account for this in the annual report. As far as I am concerned, a chapter on what has been learned from the past would also be very appropriate. Then we will get coherence, see article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act in the accountability, in the indicators for broad prosperity and understanding of quality. In the end, we can answer the questions of the MBO students more easily. The Minister congratulated Mr Sneller and I, as rapporteurs for, among other things, insight into quality, on our work in his presentation. Thank you for that. But he won't blame me for being a little impatient. Groundhog Day was a great movie. But the same debate every year, without progress? That's not what we want. Then the results. I'll start with the Monitor Brede Prosperity. Compliments to CBS: a lot of work done, again better than last year and really a nice integration of the monitor and the Sustainable Development Goals. We've seen a number of trends since last year. The high prosperity here is at the expense of future generations and people elsewhere in the world. As a country, we have too large an ecological feed print and the highest livestock density in Europe. We're releasing more greenhouse gases than the year before. Our imports of natural resources lead to problems in many African countries that reduce the widespread prosperity there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u72	Let me turn to the previous point. Mr Snels van GroenLinks' speech on the importance of the Broad Prosperity Monitor, on the figures that need to be measurable and on the fact that business may be doing better than the government was really good. I couldn't agree more. I wonder why GroenLinks has agreed that the carbon budget has been removed from the Climate Act. That's just one of those things that you're really good at measuring and taking care of. In the documents you can read back that Mr Klaver is convinced by Mr Wiebes to take out the carbon budget, because it was not such a good idea. Those two things I don't rhyme so well. Can he explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u73	In my opinion, it is always the question, and that is also the search for the CBS, how to establish policy objectives as concretely as possible. That has something to do with statistics, that has something to do with "what can you measure" and that also has something to do with "how can you influence it in policy every year." What I am pleased about is that climate policy is one of the exceptions to general government policy, in which we actually have the goals quite concretely. These have been translated from the Paris climate goals: to reach below 2°C, or rather to 1.5°C. This is translated into CO emissions and then translated into national targets. So if there is still one of the policy areas where we have taken great steps forward to make what we as a country should do in the international community as concrete as possible, and to achieve feasible targets, then it is climate policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u74	A lot of fine words and a slide of reasoning. But the fact remains that the IPCC, as well as the planning agencies, agree that a carbon budget is the way to settle it. And that's just the tooth that GroenLinks pulled to make the Climate Act toothless. So I follow Mr Snels' reasoning, but the consequence he has of it, the ease with which the carbon budget has been taken out, does add a lot of strength to his speech. That's what I was gonna say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u75	Thank you for that, but I still think there is a very close relationship between the CO targets and the carbon budget, so just say the capital approach and the approach to how you go down every year. I think that relationship is quite measurable. Mr. Chairman. Where was I? By the climate. I just said: here we have objectives, for example those of Paris, when it comes to climate change. When it comes to nature and biodiversity, I have some concerns. What exactly are the objectives of the cabinet here and how do we achieve them? Another trend is the trade-off between economic growth and well-being. Growth is high and employment is high. The cabinet is proud of that, and rightly so, but the downsides are also there. Satisfaction over free time is decreasing, and there is more stress and less direction over one's own life. How does the cabinet look at this trade-off and what role is there for the government? The most worrying thing about broad prosperity is the accumulation of effects. The differences are large, with people with lower education and a non-Western background at the bottom of the ladder. High housing costs, overweight, low subjective well-being, low income, health problems and also low confidence in institutions and people. This is not a problem of purchasing power, it is a social and actually a democratic problem. What conclusion does the cabinet draw from this exchange? Mr. Chairman. The Minister of Finance mentioned six successes two weeks ago, but in the way in which he did so he was right to make comments from a point of view of accountability. He said: The cabinet increased teachers' salaries in primary education. However, the Court notes that there is still no insight into the results of tackling the workload. The cabinet worked on improving accessibility and traffic jams, the minister said. But meanwhile we see that the 130 km/h has only led to more traffic jams and not to shorter travel times. What conclusion does the cabinet draw from this? The cabinet wanted to tackle poverty, the minister said. But the number of people in long-term poverty has risen to 600,000 and the proportion of the population living in relative income poverty has risen to 13.2%. The cabinet wanted to strengthen the enforcement of social security rules, the minister said. However, half of the people who applied for benefits in 2017 had not had a first interview on 1 October 2018. The cabinet concluded agreements to keep the care affordable, but in the meantime 250 aldermen of the coalition parties were called the alarm due to lack of money for youth care. The cabinet took measures to make work more rewarding. But now we see that wages have not risen, at least not enough have risen with the more expensive messages. Here you see what I think the Court of Auditors means by the movie Memento. We do not have a good idea of the effects of old policy and we are already making new policies without knowing what its effectiveness is. That is why it is so important to learn from the past and to formulate concrete goals, as required by the Compatibility Act. Following a commitment we received this week a letter from the Minister of Finance on the follow-up to the additional post and on the follow-up to the improvement of Article 3.1. That's a good letter. What I am missing here is that in the case of transfers from the supplementary post to departments, not only is the follow-up to budget lines improved, but that the responsibility under Article 3.1 is also explained directly by the directors concerned, because I think it is precisely in the case of new policies and in the case of new money that it is important to bring Article 3.1 to the attention of the Committees of Parliament. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the public sector and money that remains on the shelf. Work in the public sector is important for our well-being, for tackling social inequality and thus for prosperity in the broad sense. My party has been talking about a crisis for a long time, but the Court of Auditors also drew tough conclusions. Successive cuts have affected the quality of public services. The consequences of many cuts are noticeable to this day, and by no means all holes have been closed. There are risks to the continuity of services, including care, defence, education and police. Of course there is extra investment. We have had this debate on several occasions, and we will do so in the spring paper. But the labour market is tight. People are hard to find, so the workload remains high. The Court of Auditors rightly says that it is not bad if money is passed on if there are no proper spending plans yet. But being more generous with salary increases seems to me to be a commitment that we will not regret when it comes to the work of the police, Defense, education and care and making that work more attractive. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The Court of Auditors has concerns about the legality of revenue, expenditure and obligations. Mr Van 't Wout has already spoken about it. The legality was lower than the previous five years. In the case of commitments, the Minister was even on the verge of being acceptable by 99,07%. It took us many, many years in the 1980s to get the books in order in the Netherlands. Do these figures cause concern to the Minister of Finance? What's he gonna do about it? How is he going to prevent the Minister himself from making a mistake about obligations for ICT, the Tax Administration and the World Bank as unlawful? Then we'll be in Mr. Van 't Wout's scenario. Mr. Chairman. Then to ICT. The Court is also critical of ICT in the government. Information security isn't in order. There's an increased risk of data leaks. There's not enough standardisation. The Court is poorly informed about ICT expenditure and unnecessary expenditure on systems. In 2019 we are still talking about implementing rules from 2012. The number of ICT deficiencies has doubled since 2015 from nine to nineteen last year. The IRS remains a painful example. The VAT ICT system dates back to 1982. I'm trying to imagine what an IT system from 1982 looks like. Then I get images of pacman in front of me. Why can't the government still map out how much government spends on maintaining existing ICT systems every year? Is the government going to make binding agreements on government management? Finally, Mr President. Last week there were some small messages in the media about New Zealand's unique welfare budget, the well-being budget. I have taken a look at that budget and it is really interesting. Broad prosperity is put at the heart of government policy. It identifies concrete priorities with concrete goals such as well-being and reducing child poverty, as well as social and economic innovation and transition to a sustainable economy. There's evidence-based work. Ministers must indicate how objectives are being achieved. And on that basis, the budget is distributed. There will be an impact analysis and an evaluation of the chosen policy. That is about our Monitor Brede Welvaart, translated into policy goals and argued with learning effects according to article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act, as we do in the project Insight in Quality. I told you last year the Prime Minister was short in his appreciation of the Monitor Brede Prosperity, but could he and the Minister of Finance give a response to the New Zealand system, which I think is very educational? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u76	I'm going there in October, so I can see for myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u77	Thank you, Mr. Quick. I now give the floor to Mr Slootweg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the members of the cabinet. I am particularly pleased that Mrs Ollongren is with us. This shows how important the ICT issue is...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u79	The Home Secretary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u80	The Home Secretary. Her presence indicates the importance of ICT issues in the cabinet. In my contribution, I will come back to it. Mr. Chairman. These annual reports, these final laws, are the first report of the cabinet. It is responsible for this. Accountability is important, because this is how we try to prevent cynicism in politics. Cynicism. I experience the distrust that many people have against politics. When politics comes up with concrete answers, they are often economic or financial, but people are not more sure. It seems as if politics becomes more superficial as people's concerns deepen: even rawer messages, even more empty promises in the hope of being heard during election campaigns. And after the elections, disappointment follows as the promises turned out to be vain and politics has its normal course of action. It is cynical politics that in itself feeds the cynicism of the citizens. This development consumes the foundation of democracy, and that is why we must fight this cynicism, because democracy does not perpetrate this development indefinitely. It was signed, Sybrand Buma. Taking responsibility isn't enough. The way you do that can feed cynicism. For me, it is important that we fight this cynicism by trying to restore confidence in institutions. And then it's a cultural change. During the presentation of the accounts, Tjibbe Joustra told us that creating a cultural change might be the most difficult. Mr. Chairman. So at first glance there is little reason for cynicism, but precisely for optimism. The country's finances are doing well. The economy grew by 2.7%, which is higher than the long-term average. More people found a job. The budget surplus increased to 1.5%, reducing government debt to 52.4%. That is a wide margin not to have to cut directly hard when it is economically disappointing. When we look at the revenue, expenditure and liabilities of the national accounts, the General Court finds that more than 99% of them are lawful. However, there is a clear concern: the number of errors and uncertainties has increased compared to 2017. Fortunately, unlike last year, there are no serious shortcomings. However, my group agrees with the Court's observation that the increase in the number of deficiencies is a cause for concern. There really needs to be a tooth at that point. Mr. Chairman. That large budget surplus is not a good thing in itself. The size of this surplus is due to poor expenditure and many of these expenditures are moving on to the coming years. It's being published, but not now. Because you know these expenses are coming, it requires discipline not to use the windfalls for other expenses. This calls for good stewardship. Mr. Chairman. In addition to the annual reports, the Monitor Brede Welvaart has been presented for the second year. As a result, we also know what direction things are going with the Netherlands in, for example, well-being, health, society and safety. This year a relationship has also been established with the Sustainable Development Goals, which are used internationally. In many areas we can compare our position internationally. We think that's a win. What makes discussion difficult is the large number of indicators, and perhaps even more the timing of those indicators. We are talking today about the year papers of 2018, but some indicators from the monitor are about 2015. One difficulty is that it may not be possible to say anything about such an indicator until after the next elections and whether policy has gone the right way. The ability to assess the success of policies depends to a large extent on how concrete objectives are formulated. My first question is: how does the cabinet look at an annual report on what it does to improve the "red positions" that are part of the Sustainable Development Goals. Can it report on that? What is the government's view of setting specific objectives for these red positions in order to better assess whether they are improving? I would like to go into one indicator of the Monitor Brede Welvaart in more detail on the basis of the annual reports, which is the confidence in institutions. The monitor shows that on the one hand we live in a country where people still have a lot of confidence in institutions. But we do see that there is a decline in that confidence. That's about us, too. If we are to be able to meet tomorrow's challenges together, there must be mutual trust between the inhabitants, the directors and the controllers, over and over again and among themselves. If we don't, we feed cynicism. My group sees in many of the shortcomings that have been noted that too little is being done to restore that confidence. Trust in institutions can be compromised if, for example, people read that extra money is being made available to solve problems, but then it turns out that we are not sure whether that extra money is being used to do the right things. It can also be affected if we make arrangements so complicated that people drop out and think they are not meant for them, and if we fail to keep promises to work on imperfections. Mr. Chairman. This cabinet spent 13 billion more in 2018 than in 2017. Strangely enough, the use of extra resources can affect confidence in institutions. I'm trying to give you a few examples that make that clear. In 2017, it will be established that you are actually partially disabled. You will receive a WGA benefit. You've noticed that even in a tense labour market, many employers are afraid to hire you. You want to tell your story and share your experiences in personal contact. You hear that the UWV receives extra money just for that personal contact, but in October 2018, a year later, you still belong to half of the people with whom no contact has been made from the UWV. My group is well aware that it is difficult to find people, but what we do not expect is the next game. In letters to the Chamber, the Minister states that he wants the UWV to be in personal contact with all the members of the WGA, who entered in 2017. But what's the reaction now? No, that doesn't mean all the WGA beneficiaries, but only the people who have been transferred to the Work Company. These kinds of vocabulary games nurture cynicism and undermine confidence in institutions. Extra money is also available for nursing care. Healthcare offices have the role to ensure that the extra money is also well spent. But do they have the right instruments for that? Can health care agencies measure that a nursing home actually provides better care, and intervene for that? For example, there is also a question that I have received from the V100: does the cabinet also find out whether the workload in healthcare has actually been reduced in 2018 and, if so, what does it show? Because if we don't know if extra money will improve nursing home care, if workers don't stay fit in care, I'm afraid we'll be told in a few years' time that more money will be needed. Or take the education. Additional money to reduce the workload was made available in two tranches in 2018. The Court notes that without knowing whether the first tranche is effective, that money is already being used for the second tranche. Mr. Chairman. In any case, we see two reasons why extra money does not improve results. Firstly, there are not enough people available to carry out the targets. Secondly, the quality of support services is not at level. How does the Cabinet view a comprehensive analysis of the absorption capacity of the executive apparatus, where the key question must be whether one is actually able to use additional resources for better results? Much of the extra money is not directly at the Empire, but at schools, nursing homes or, for example, the UWV. Steering is more difficult than that. How does the Minister look at 'how do I successfully steer at a distance?' to be part of the Quality Insight Programme? Mr. Chairman. Both Defense and Infrastructure and Water State have been struggling with spending money for a long time. It is good that the cabinet invests a lot in these departments. There is also understanding for the fact that it might not be able to be published all in 2018, but that understanding will be reduced in the coming years. If these departments do not spend the money, this will have an effect on the economic growth of the Netherlands. Failure to maintain bridges can have a real effect on our economic growth. Can the Minister explain why the resources of these ministries are not always spent? What is being done to make this happen from 2019? Mr. Chairman. A second cause of risking confidence in institutions is the incredible complexity of facilities. The Court's reports also provided a number of examples of this. I would like to endorse this with a letter which we received from a lady who was struggling to make ends meet. She had a small job and she gave an overview of her income and expenses. The Netherlands has a relatively large number of children growing up in poverty. To help parents who have a hard time financially, we know the child-related budget. Her survey showed that she did not receive a child-related budget. We were surprised, pointed her out and contacted the Tax Administration/Applications. Turns out what? She, together with some 300 to 400 other parents, suffered from a system error at the Tax Administration/Applications and wrongly did not receive a budget. On average, it amounts to €1,000 per year. Another example is a volunteer in the union's tax service. If he wishes to assist a member in completing tax returns, he must be authorised to do so. During the filling-in, he notes that the member is entitled to a supplement. Can he apply for authorization? That's possible, but for that, he needs another authorization code. That afternoon, he can't help the member and he's leaving. In this way, many surcharges do not come from people for whom they are intended. Or take our own tax system. In Elsevier Weekblad there was an illustrative story of workers with a student child. An income growth of €5,000 gross for this household with an income of €40,000 results in a net progress of only 25% and a marginal tax burden of 75%. How does the cabinet view the launch of an investigation into the incentives in our tax system? Is it not the case that there are incentives that give a bonus on part-time work, for example, and which do not actually encourage more work? Could part of the demand for work not be met by stimulating people more and encouraging them to work longer? Mr. Chairman. Both the Finance and Justice and Security budgets include items relating to the seizure of movable and immovable property by criminals. A lot of time goes by between seizure and sale. Because so much time passes over it, the value decreases greatly. An seized Audi sold five to ten years later, for example, dusts firmly and loses its value. This means that much must be written off. In any case, we would like to see an integrated overview of confiscated movable and immovable property, so that we do not have to look in different annual documents where that is stated. And what is the Minister's view of an accelerated execution of the seized goods, so that this value can be avoided? Mr. Chairman. My third point, which undermines trust in institutions, is the fulfilment of promises. There is also some good news, for example at the VWS Ministry. Last year there were two deficiencies, one of which was serious. Good steps have been taken both in the granting of grants and in information security. In particular, in the case of grant management, monitoring of the possible granting of State aid can be strengthened, but this is under way. This is really important to restore people's trust in institutions. However, with regard to digital government, we are deeply concerned, first of all about IT management. In 2017, the Court found that there were few requirements for management activities outsourced to organisations and the extent to which the outsourced management processes were in control. Feeling better was promised. The situation has not changed in 2018. In 2017, the Court of Auditors found that a large number of ministries were not in line with information security, which also relates to private data of our residents. Feel better, but in 2018 the Court sees that information security is still not in order. There are also major problems in this area towards the Caribbean Netherlands. During last year's debate, a lot of attention was paid to the availability of IT staff with the right knowledge and competences. It was recognised that this would not be one-two-three to solve, but that steps would be taken. It should be noted that the demand for IT personnel for the management and maintenance of systems and the introduction of new legislation is greater than supply in the coming years. I would like to take this into account for a moment: the demand for IT personnel for the introduction of new legislation is greater than the supply. This affects democracy. New legislation may not or may not be introduced in time because the necessary people who need to support this IT-wise are not there. This undermines confidence in the institutions. Is the Minister prepared to report on progress in IT management, information security and recruitment of ICT staff? And is he willing, for example, to report on progress in these areas on a quarterly basis within the budgetary cycle? When I read this story above, I was a little afraid that my call to work to strengthen trust in the institutions through the mentioned examples might turn out to be a bit black. However, I also see things that do strengthen my confidence in the institutions. Let me mention one. On the day we were to hold this debate on responsibility, this cabinet issued a green bond for the first time. I am grateful that the Netherlands is the first country to issue a green state bond with a triple A rating. These nearly 6 billion will finance expenditure that meets specific climate criteria and thus contributes to reducing CO emissions. Last year I was allowed to speak in favour of this on behalf of the CDA Group. I think it is very nice that this has now become a reality. Let's fight cynicism. Once again, with a legality of over 99% and good economic figures, there is sufficient reason to give compliments. Church Father Augustine wrote: "Why be disappointed, why grumbling at God? (...) For heaven, earth, and water are not evil, and all that is therein, fish, birds, trees, neither. All these things are good." Just as it makes no sense to grumble at God, it makes sense to assume that the government or politics will free us from all problems and protect us from all risks. It is about whether we want to work on a culture that is open to learning from imperfections, in order to strengthen confidence in our institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u81	Were you ready, Mr. Slootweg?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u82	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u83	Mr Slootweg rightly mentions, I think, a number of things that all gnaw at people's confidence in the institutions and in the government. But isn't the biggest problem that politicians don't keep promises? Doesn't Mr Slootweg also think that when politicians, like the Prime Minister, and also the King, say 'you're going to feel the economic recovery; you're going to improve your purchasing power' and then people don't feel it at all and get confirmed a year later that it didn't happen at all, that gnaws much more at the trust of people in the government than all the things Mr Slootweg calls here?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u84	I don't know if it gnaws any more. We also had this discussion in a previous period. I don't think as a government you can ever promise that people will make such a big deal of progress. I think you can point out that we are taking measures to improve the majority of the groups. But I believe that a percentage of such a promise is impossible because of individual circumstances that arise. Here's what I'm gonna say. This is about standard purchasing power plates. If someone loses their job because the company goes bankrupt, it's not in these kinds of pictures, but that person will notice. If there are personal circumstances like a divorce, two people will notice that they are not improving. So you can say that nothing changes and that measures are being taken that are broadly positive, but I just don't believe that you can hang on to such a promise. I have mentioned this before in a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u85	A lot of people actually feel it's a promise, I guess. It has also been said at many meetings that this will be the case. And in the Throne speech, so did the king. Then it's not surprising that people feel that as a promise. But when we look back, we can see that one in three people has even gotten worse. Then we can establish fairly safely that that gnaws at people's trust in the government and that the cabinet really has to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u86	We must separate two things from each other in what Mr Alkaya has said. I think these promises were about 2019. It has not been said that we would make so much progress in 2018. I think that's gonna set something up. The fact that it is indicated is a valid point. This kind of thing is sometimes said boud, even though it is done by independent institutions. Because it's not just the CPB; the Nibud has also indicated that this would happen, should everything come out like this. I think you should give these expectations with a big disclaimer. That's why I would never want to put a figure like that on it myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u87	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u88	Well, if it were just a bunch of bumps in the margins, I could go along with that story. But one in three people has even deteriorated, while the economy grew by almost 3%. I will soon give examples in my own term showing that they were indeed promises for the year 2018. People then afterwards see that nothing is right and think: I didn't feel it at all, I knew it, I was lied to. They then see that confirmed and then the cabinet fails to restore the confidence that people have lost at all because of the cabinet. So they've already lost people's trust, and they can't even restore that in times of prosperity. I'd really appreciate it if the CDA would find out with me. And I think that's very easy to determine, because everyone feels it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u89	I responded to Mr Alkaya's example of 90%. That was really about 2019. But why do I care about this? This cabinet does a lot of things. This cabinet invests a lot of money in a number of things that I think we widely felt needed to be repaired in the Chamber. Then it was about the care, then it was about education and then it was about safety. This cabinet is also taking steps that have indeed been aimed at making people feel the burden relief. This cabinet is also taking steps to strengthen business. I'd like to see it in that connection. That's why I don't think you can really put a figure like that on one of those parts. I do not think that is wise, and I would like to challenge Mr Alkaya. I have expressed this in this way. I think it's important that all three of those things happen. And there are so many personal circumstances that I don't think you can ever report such a percentage with such certainty.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u90	I would first like to congratulate Mr Slootweg on his conclusion. Those warm words got me all wrapped up; the words about Augustine, of course, I mean. But that doesn't change the fact that I had a moment before that with a cold chill. I just want to make sure that's right. I always had the impression that the CDA, like the SGP, is a real family party. I don't even see Mr. Slootweg nodding. I thought, "Now he's gonna nod." But I also heard him say something about extending the tax regime for part-time jobs. If I translate that correctly, I want to be sure that Mr Slootweg is saying that we should make the gap between one earner and two earners again and therefore shift a warm family policy away. Or is that what I'm hearing wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u91	The reason why I once joined the CDA has to do with the fact that the CDA really sees the family as a cornerstone. That does not mean that there is only one form of family possible, and that it can only be a family with a single earner. I don't know if that's what Mr. Stoffer means? I'll take care of the following. In the examples, also in the tax examples that we get, it sometimes seems as if it hardly pays to work more. I'm sorry to hear that. If people wanted to do that, they would think: yes, but I'm hardly getting ahead of it. I like to see how that part can be dealt with, and I really don't see it as a contradiction with the family either. I think you're still very good at working together. The point that Mr Stoffer might raise concerns the examples of a marginal rate that is actually above 100% when it comes to a single earner. I would also like to see that part in such an analysis of the tax system, because that is, of course, weird. I have also seen examples of this. Someone goes from €28,000 to €29,000, but goes down net. Those are fragility in our tax system.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u92	Fortunately, this gives me a little peace of mind. I don't have the impression that the CDA is leaving the family completely out. I am also talking about an analysis and not about the outcome of widening the gap between one and two earners.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u93	No, definitely not. But sometimes people both want to work, for example, both part-time. But I don't think we should want to have a system where you wouldn't actually get anything if you could go to work for four more hours. But that also happens with two-earers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u94	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u95	Work must be rewarding. We agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u96	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u97	Soon we'll all agree! The PvdA is also for families, in many different compositions, I say to the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u98	It's very quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u99	I have a question about cynicism and trust. That is actually the main thrust of the analysis that the CDA is concerned about, and I can imagine that. Questions have just been asked about purchasing power, and you have answered them, but it also actually applies to the entire investment agenda promised by the cabinet for 2018. This has not been achieved in many respects, for example on care, not on education, not on security, not on infrastructure, nor on defence. Would it not also feed cynicism if ministers promised all of this to people and it turned out not to be true at the end of the year?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u100	I am also concerned about some of the areas we have heard about, for example in the case of defence and infrastructure. Is there something in the system? Does it have enough incentive if you can move something indefinitely? It may also be true that there are too few people who can carry it out. I am indeed concerned about that. I think it's different with care and education. In education there is a capacity problem. It's a problem finding people. You can see that money is not spent here and there. I do not know what Mr Nijboer says about it, but I myself have less problems with it because, for example, medicines have become cheaper or there is less medical consumption. I do think you should make a clear analysis of what's in it every time. Only spending money because it is available should not, in my opinion, be the goal. I find it more difficult in investment departments than in departments where other things can play a role that is not so bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u101	I'm a little worried about that last one. Mr Slootweg is right about these medicines. If you have to pay less for that, you spend less than you expected. That's really good. We are in favour of this. Then the pharmaceuticals aren't a bacon buyer either. But it's about 5.2 billion. That is more than twice the dividend tax measure. That's really big money. You're not talking about an occasional windfall here or there. Then I do not understand at all the distinction that the CDA makes between Defence and Infrastructure on the one hand and teachers for the classroom and nurses on the other hand rewarding and reducing their workload. Why don't you talk to the cabinet about that just as strongly? I think that among the groups of people who are doing very important work for the public cause, it feeds cynicism when they are promised a lot of what is not being accomplished.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u102	That is why I think the example of the workload is quite right. That may also be a little in line with what Mr Snels said earlier. It is a question of whether the money is being spent in the right way. That is why I found the Court's investigation very striking. We can reserve and spend a lot of money with the aim of reducing the workload, but we sometimes don't even know if the money spent in a sector is helping. I therefore want it to be as evidence-based as possible. About giving money alone, I say: no, I also want to know whether it can achieve goals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u103	There is no one who approves a budget in the Chamber and then says: throw it in the ditch, because we do not care where it goes. That didn't happen. There was just 5.2 billion promised last year and that was paid off in public debt. Those are promises that haven't been made. I disagree. I fear that this is one of the elements that feeds cynicism on people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u104	I think that a larger part of the issue of why money is not spent is really at the point where people we thought would carry out those tasks simply weren't there. I think this is really the big cause, besides some other parts. It is difficult, but I think that good management is at the forefront rather than leaving it that way. I am not saying that Mr Nijboer is in favour of that, but I think that good management is more important than the precise outcome. Then I would like the money to be handled wisely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u105	Same thing. I would not have put it so explicitly in my text because it requires a lot of text, but Mr Slootweg himself is now talking about the public sector. I agree with the Court of Auditors: if the spending plans are not yet good enough, for example in order to reduce the workload, it is not necessarily bad to postpone. But there's a strange paradox in the public sector. On the one hand, we have staff shortages, but we still have concerns about the wage increases that are taking place in that sector. May I give you some examples? The collective hospitals: an unacceptable wage offer, according to the employees. Disability care: the wage bid is yet to come. The nursing and nursing homes: the negotiations are still ongoing. Municipal staff: jammed. Child care: an ultimatum has been given to the Minister. So there are a lot of examples in the public sector where, on the one hand, we see that there is pressure and shortages and, on the other hand, we see a government, not always directly but also indirectly, which is keeping a very close eye on things. What does Mr Slootweg think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u106	You are also quoting a number of examples where the negotiations are done first, not directly by the Empire but by other parties. I think this is really a sign of the tension on the labour market. This tension also increases the tension on collective bargaining. So this could really be a reason for catching up with wage growth, which we have seen lately. There's a little rubbing about it. I think it would be less sensible if all kinds of politicians indicated what it should be spent on. I am very confident that the trade unions will finally come out with employers, including government employers. Then it is important that trust in the institutions should continue to exist over and over again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u107	Mr. Van't Wout didn't start that discussion about the AIQ for nothing. There's a broader discussion behind that. This has something to do with the various macroeconomic developments and the trends behind them, which mean that wages do not rise enough and business profits do. But this is really about the public sector. Sometimes it's indirect, but it's a responsibility to the government. You can see that the bottlenecks are very large. Then the political commitment of the government and the cabinet could at least be to be more generous and to devote more space to wage growth in the public sector. That's not just a waste of money either. It's almost a no-regret option. Isn't that obvious as a political statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u108	In that sense, I might be a little old-fashioned after all. In wage negotiations, I think that politics really needs to stay a little distance. However, we have indicated in many areas that we want wages to rise and wage growth to be used. I think we can still do this. But I find it less sensible to sit in the place of the collective bargaining negotiator from the Empire.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u109	Finally, Mr Snels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u110	I think it's a rather mediocre answer. In fact, I think that the VVD, Mr Van 't Wout, gave more space to look at the forthcoming budgets, for example, to see if there is more room for them. For it does begin with the space determined by the government. After that, it is indeed up to the workers and employers to negotiate. I find it striking, but maybe I misinterpreted it, that the VVD seems to offer more space than the CDA. That doesn't seem to fit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u111	I don't recognize myself in that frame so much. I do recognize in the frame that I myself am a little reluctant to indicate what needs to be done from a political point of view. I am very confident that we will get out of it, both from the trade unions and from the parties negotiating on behalf of the employers. I would like to leave that responsibility there too, because I find it all much more problematic if politics is always going to do so. Because if things are a little less good, then perhaps political intervention will also be harder than the trade unions like.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u112	The cynicism that Mr Slootweg was talking about also got me thinking. Because why are people so cynical? But that is also, of course, because they have to pay higher taxes every year. And I don't hear that at all. The disposable income has been stagnant since 1977. Mr Slootweg knows that too. In other words, people work, do their best, go to school, study more and more, work as a breadwinner first, and then the two of them. It can't be on. So they keep buffaloing, but in the end the disposable income of a family just remains the same. They do not benefit from that prosperity. Who's gonna take advantage of it? Those are the companies. They make big profits. Mr Slootweg knows that too. The government spends a lot of money. This benefits citizens, but it is also largely not for the benefit of citizens. In other words, do you understand cynicism? If you have to work harder and harder for the same money, it makes you a little despondent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u113	If you put the image like that, you would indeed say that it is only food for cynicism. However, I would like to put a few points to that effect. There is much to be said about the comparison with 1977. Yet in 1977 I compare our country with our country in 2019. I see that a very good progress has been made in the area of our concern since 1977. When I look at the education and the things my kids have there and compare it to what I've had, I see that there's just progress. I see with what kind of systems the police can work: there is just progress. This also applies to companies. The profits of companies are, in one way or another, very often returned to employees' pockets. So I don't recognize the distance between companies and ordinary people. There are just a lot of companies making profits. Fortunately, this will enable them to make investments, which will enable them to exist in the future. Part of that also really gets back to people themselves. The company is not a metaphysical thing; companies are also people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u114	"It'll end up with people"... These are shareholders and in the Netherlands they are mainly foreign shareholders. So that money disappears from the Netherlands. That doesn't come in the employee's wallet. And that's where the government has a role to play. You can point to the employers every time, such as "they have to raise wages," but the government can also start lowering taxes. And what does the government do? Again and again, even under your leadership, it is: taxes must be raised. VAT went to 21% thanks to the CDA, and now the low rate goes to 9% thanks to the CDA. You make life more expensive for people and you blame the companies for not raising wages. No, you can also lower taxes, so people will have a little more left at the end of the month. But you won't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u115	I hope, then, with Mr Van Dijck, that this cabinet will be there for a long time, because I believe that it will take a number of measures to reduce income tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u116	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Alkaya on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u117	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today, then, the debate on responsibility will finally take place. It has been postponed, but today we can all look back and assess whether the cabinet has achieved the goals we have set together. Let me share my main conclusion: in 2018 the Netherlands also came under the leadership of the VVD. Very many goals have not been achieved. In an interrupting debate we have just seen a number of important things coming along. 2018 was the first full year of the Rutte III cabinet, a year in which the economy grew and money was not an obstacle to the cabinet. After years of economic crisis and about 50 billion in cuts by the previous VVD-kabinets, there was therefore plenty of room last year to repair the damage and invest in the future of the Netherlands. One assignment to the cabinet was carried from left to right in this Chamber and was particularly obvious: improve people's purchasing power; make sure that Dutch people actually feel economic growth and finally improve it after years of decline. We've just talked about it. That was carried by everyone. A few quotes to illustrate that this assignment was really crystal clear. "It is important that more people take advantage of the economic prosperity," said the King in his Throne Address about the year 2018, so in September 2017. In the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment's budget, it said: "Over 80% of all households will improve purchasing power next year. The cabinet thus ensures that workers, benefit recipients and pensioners benefit from the economic recovery in the Netherlands." And finally: "The Netherlands is doing well, but too many people don't feel it in their personal lives yet and that needs to be improved. That is what our actions are aimed at." That is what the Prime Minister himself said when he presented his coalition agreement. So the cabinet knew very well what to do and yet again it has not succeeded. No one in the Netherlands was allowed to experience the promised increase in purchasing power in 2018. Single parents with a modal income, for example, would receive 0.3% purchasing power, but it was 0%. Single minimums, people who are already not wide and who really are on their gums after years of austerity, would get 0.1% purchasing power, but would have to turn in 0.2%. And retired couples with only an AOW benefit would get 0.2%, but they too would have to turn in. Eventually, last year, one in three households in the Netherlands provided purchasing power, while the economy grew significantly, by almost 3%. Incomprehensible and unacceptable as far as the Socialist Party is concerned. 'Cause it's not like everyone's doing less than they expected. The profits of listed companies increased to 66 billion last year, doubling compared to 2013. Of course, the cabinet is proud of that, and that would also be good news if that profit were to be distributed fairly. But unfortunately that is not the case. People don't notice that at all. They don't feel it and afterwards they are also confirmed that they haven't seen anything of it. Of the 66 billion, EUR 30 billion was distributed directly as a dividend to shareholders. The PVV just said it, too. And for 16 billion, about half of that amount, the own shares were bought back, so the stock price would go up, so the shares would increase in value. So that was also for the benefit of the shareholders. While entrepreneurs and employees in the Netherlands together provided a lot of prosperity in 2018, most of them went to investors and shareholders, i.e. to capital, not to the workers, the hardworking men and women in the workplace. Society also had a look at it, because big-time earners like Shell and Philips don't pay any profit tax at all. We recently found out. This could lead to a loss of society of 47.2 billion, if we can believe the Volkskrant. If you let it work on you for a second: 47.2 billion! Mr. Chairman. The Rutte Cabinets have therefore managed to ensure that, while the economy in the Netherlands is growing rapidly and corporate profits are growing rapidly, one in three households can decline. But what is economic growth worth if we still have compatriots who don't make enough money to buy food? And what is a high employment rate worth if one in six employees is overwhelmed and has complaints due to too high a workload? And what are high profits worth if the people in the workplace who make sure that profits are made at all do not see anything of it anymore? Surely it is a disgrace on all the annual reports that we are about to assess and eventually probably approve that we are still dealing with food banks in the Netherlands and that the number of them has grown even in 2018? We received additional food banks in 2018 and almost 200,000 people with jobs are still struggling to make ends meet and live in poverty. Surely we can safely establish here, together with all of us, that the policy is failing, that the cabinet is failing? For years it has been promised that every Dutchman will benefit from a growing wealth in our country, but despite all the good promises, the cabinet will not succeed. I ask the cabinet: how will you make this right in 2019? Because this year, too, everyone has been promised a traditional increase in purchasing power, on top of the increase that should have been achieved in 2018. And now it turns out that one in three households even deteriorated in 2018. A credible cabinet would then say: we are still going to deliver on our promises; sorry for the delay, but you will still receive in 2019 what you were promised in 2018. Is that what this cabinet says? I repeat my question very specifically: is the Cabinet prepared to honour its commitment to purchasing power in 2018 and to compensate anyone who missed out in 2019 for the purchasing power they were promised in 2018 but never seen? 'Cause just yelling that wages can go up isn't enough. If the government lacks ideas about how it could be done, it can always come to the attention of the SP, because we have already put forward several proposals to actually increase people's purchasing power, such as raising the minimum wage, encouraging profit sharing within companies or, if necessary, reintroducing a wage measure. So you can just raise your wages, but you must really want to. The question is whether this cabinet really wants it. To be perfectly honest, I am in a bleak mood about this. This is the third cabinet this Prime Minister is in charge of. These Cabinets have proved extremely competent in cutting back and breaking down the public sector, but it does not seem to succeed in building up. From our care and our police to our education, there have been cuts everywhere for years and tens of thousands of people have lost their jobs. You've got to hand it to the Prime Minister: he's done a hell of a job cutting and breaking down. The public sector is on fire. That is the neoliberal nature of this animal: more market and less public services, more competition and less cooperation, more breaking down and less building together. All this to boost competitiveness, supposedly competitiveness. The cabinet needs to invest in the public sector. So in 2018 it also had the means to do so, but we see that it simply did not succeed. It's like looking at a team that wants to play soccer offensively, but then under the guidance of a trainer who just wants to defend. It simply doesn't work. I see that they are trying, but they are not even able to achieve the non-ambitious goals they set, in order to repair the damage done by the previous Rutte Cabinets, and that is worrying. It simply cannot be explained that last year there was 11.3 billion euros left at the bottom of the line, which is over €800 per adult Dutch citizen, while hospitals have been closed, housing isolation has been postponed and duped Groningers are still waiting for compensation. I would like to mention a few examples where that money is needed. Take care of the kids. Municipalities recently sent a letter of fire in which they even threatened to give back their duties, because two out of three municipalities have significant deficits in fulfilling their tasks. Because municipalities of the previous VVD cabinet had not received sufficient funding for youth care, they had to cut back on all kinds of other facilities in the vicinity of people. Hopefully that's going to be fixed now. This debate was postponed, but in the meantime we have already received the Spring Note. It will require 750 million a year in structural terms. There is this money, but for the time being, the cabinet holds on to about half of it, and that is not structural but occasional. That is why I am asking the Cabinet: is it also going to be as soon as possible to come up with an adequate and structural solution for youth care in the 2020 budget? If the cabinet refuses to make enough money available for youth care, it gives the impression that it is still striving for a smaller government, even over the backs of young people in need of care, even though there is enough money. Let me repeat: 11.3 billion stayed there last year. That is over €800 per adult Dutchman. This year, too, we are moving towards a budget surplus. There is therefore no excuse to drive people into despair in the youth care sector and in the municipalities. Come up with a structural and adequate solution, I say to the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. So there is too little investment by this cabinet, while there is still so much to do to improve people's lives. The Monitor Brede Welvaart shows that almost one in six Dutch lives in a house with one or more major defects, such as mold, rotten window frames, leaking roofs or damp walls. Among certain groups, such as people with a non-western background, this is even one in four people. I have seen it often enough myself and have taken action against it in my own district of Amsterdam Nieuw-West. Often it concerns social housing that is missing a great deal and that you could do something about with political will. You can directly improve the living conditions of many people. You can directly improve people's homes, but even here money that is common is not spent. For example, applications for subsidies for social housing have been discontinued, for example, because the pot was already empty on 1 July 2018. If you then see how much money remained at the end of the year, then much more social housing could have been isolated and improved. The inhabitants and the whole society would have benefited directly from this, because a well-insulated house is not only good for the people who live in it, but also for the environment. Why didn't that happen? Why wasn't more money used to improve and isolate social housing when the money was just there? How is the cabinet going to prevent people from sitting unnecessarily in poorly isolated and unmaintained social housing in 2019, while there is just money to improve it? Mr. Chairman. I find it very understandable when people become cynical that they have to pay more taxes to green the Netherlands, while they are still in a house with only glass and mold. I also think it is very understandable that they become cynical when they see that at the same time their managers are driving around in subsidised Tesla's for the same purpose. That can and should be more just. Finally, the police are a poignant example of all those other people in the public sector who have been cutting back for years. In 2018, 674 operational agents quit their jobs. That is much more than expected, the General Court also notes. I am very sorry, but I also find it understandable after years of austerity and too much pressure on the police. Rutte III is therefore also struggling to repair Rutte II's damage and attract the much needed extra agents. This cabinet wants to train 1,111 extra agents in a few years, but how are they going to do this? Is it realistic? How does the cabinet deal with personnel problems in other public services? The General Court is calling the bell because there is no strategic human resources policy in the government. I ask the cabinet: can we as a parliament assume that this cabinet will make our public sector an attractive employer again? The whole of the Netherlands benefits from a sufficient number of good agents, caregivers, teachers and enforcers. Mr. Chairman. I will conclude with one final comment. We look back at a year of economic growth. The third VVD cabinet is ignorant or, worse, unwilling to share the wealth in the Netherlands more fairly and invest in our collective future. In the coming years, the economy is likely to grow less rapidly than in 2018. That promises something with the same VVD cabinet at the helm. When the Prime Minister took office in 2010 I became a member of the SP about then because of that, because I knew that the account of the crisis would be placed with the wrong party, namely with the citizens, we had to bite through the acid, because later it would come sweet. Today I note that 2018 should have been sweet, but unfortunately this cabinet has not succeeded. Both households and the public sector are still damaged by the previous Rutte Cabinets. The Netherlands has come out again. We can do this and we have to do this differently. People deserve better. The Netherlands deserves better. The money was there in 2018 to make those investments. In future, let us make sure that everyone in the Netherlands really benefits from all the wealth in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u118	Thank you, Mr. Alkaya. I now give the floor to Mr Sneller on behalf of D66. After him, I'll suspend for lunch, 'cause I can see you guys looking a little tired.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "Soon I'm not. I can't run like you, and yet I bet I can win a running match on you. If you dare to face the challenge, you will see it." That's how the turtle spoke to the hare. And the hare almost fell over laughing. Of course, he couldn't lose this! So he eagerly accepted the challenge and ran away. But halfway through the course, he was tired. He had such a huge head start that he went to rest under the tree. And of course he fell asleep. The turtle, on the other hand, started quietly, but he was not distracted and continued steadily. When the hare woke up and wanted to use the final sprint, he just saw that turtle go over the finish line first. Yeah, you didn't see it coming! Mr. Chairman. Today we are not doing a sprint, but we are considering the results of 2018. But the results of that financial year are of course not alone, but are also the results of all the years before. As the President of the General Court advised us, we must follow the track back in time. After all, we reap the efforts of our predecessors and we sow for our successors. If we evaluate the efforts of the past well, we should also leave them behind, or pass them on, as some say. Those results for 2018 were generally beautiful; it was already mentioned. I will mention a few: we had the longest set of budget surpluses in 50 years and the lowest unemployment in 15 years, and the economy grew by 2.7%. But there are also alarming signals: the lowest legality score for years and the greatest underexhaustment of this century. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has an open economy. This openness is our strength, because we trade a lot with our European neighbours, and that brings us a lot of prosperity and jobs, especially when the world economy is in a boom, as it has been in recent times. But that openness is also our vulnerability. What the United States or the United Kingdom, China or Italy are doing is hitting us hard in the wallet. That's why we need to get our own business in order. Mr. Chairman. When we then rewind the film to 2008, before the crisis, we see many politicians complain that the Netherlands would be "reform tired." We see a government agreement in which raising the AOW age was taboo, in which limiting the mortgage interest deduction was taboo, in which the right of dismissal reform was taboo. All these taboos made us unnecessarily vulnerable when the crisis came. On Princess Day in 2008, a surplus of 1.2% was announced for 2009, and a deficit of 5.3% was reported on Accountable Day for the same year. This only shows how quickly that budget balance can be reversed in the Netherlands. That does not mean, of course, that we should not have surplus in good times, because we should not have stabilising anticyclical fiscal rules, because we should have them, and we should not have to abide by those rules, because we should, so that the government can support our prosperity in good times and in bad times. But I think it means looking beyond that balance and debt to make a resilient, healthy economy, because structural reforms can make the economy less vulnerable to shocks. The cabinet has made a good start on this: the accelerated reduction of the mortgage interest rate deduction and the Labour Market Act in balance, to mention a few examples. And now, as far as I am concerned, the pension agreement and the climate agreement are up. Fortunately, for the period after that, all ministries are studying, following a motion that I tabled together with a number of colleagues, in order to come up with new reforms which will soon come in handy in the event of a subsequent recession. Mr Van 't Wout also mentioned a number of other study committees that are now doing their work so that we can take advantage of it in a moment. For ruling is not only looking back but of course also looking ahead. That motion called not only for reforms, but also for cuts and investments to be mapped out. For the cuts, I think there is a clear task: in a moment less with the blunt cheese bowl of each department, a bit without an idea of how and why. Because last time it was too much zero line, fired and squeezing off new talent in the short term, of course, effective to spend less, but then quite harmful. As informant Tjeenk Willink wrote in the annex to his final report: 'The economic crisis may be over, the impact of the savings is now reaching its peak.'
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u120	Mr Sneller began with the crisis and the impact of the budget and the rich budget on what happens in the economy. It is quite interesting that the Prime Minister has been there since 2010. So he's been through the low economy, the low economic growth and even the recession, and now we're back in a booming boom. Could we say that it has been unwise for the Prime Minister to start cutting back when things were bad? Now that things are getting better, we're trying to make up for the damage done at the time. So that's exactly the other way around. So he's had a pro-cyclical policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u121	My point is that just before the crisis broke out, we should have made sure that we were less vulnerable. I mentioned earlier that the AOW age was taboo for you. The right to dismiss was for the SP taboo. My point is that we should have done that then. Yes, the Prime Minister had taboos when he was still in the Chambers, but I also mentioned them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u122	We can have the substantive discussion about this and that is very interesting, but it is about timing. When are you going to make that kind of cuts? 'Cause it's been budget cuts. The previous Cabinets have decided to make that kind of austerity at the time of recession, which means that we now have to try to recover a great deal. That's not even gonna work. If I follow Mr Sneller's story, can we say that the timing was simply unwise?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u123	Yes, these reforms should have been done sooner; I have just argued that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u124	Or later, right? At least when it's going well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u125	Let us indeed reform now. I would say: support that pension agreement as one of those reforms. But it might have been too easy, Mr. Alkaya. Of course it is true that it is now a time when things are going well. Again, the SP says that now is not the time to reform or that it does not like the reforms that lie ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u126	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u127	Yes, finally, Mr. Chairman. We can, of course, talk about what kind of reforms that should be. Of course, we also want to reform the economy. Of all the parties here, we probably want to reform the economy radically. But it's going the other way. That's probably where we'll end up in an interesting discussion. It's not about that; it's about timing. So we are now in the process of repairing the damage caused at the time of the economic recession. I am merely trying to draw a logical consequence of Mr Sneller's speech by saying that we are now unnecessarily busy repairing the damage, because there has been unnecessary savings at the time of the recession. At least that's what we can charge the previous Cabinets.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u128	It is nice that Mr Alkaya is pretending to be a question of timing, when I think there is never a time for him to raise the age of AOW and there is always a time to abolish the mortgage interest deduction. So it's a rather gratuite argument. In its report, the Court of Auditors has shown what a vulnerable vase the implementation appears to be after this period. I call it the IRS, with an IT system from 1982. I say to Mr Snels that this is an excellent year of construction, but perhaps less so for IT systems that only a handful of people know how to work. I also mention the lousy tax phone that can be reached. And after the exit premiums, the recruitment targets are not being met. At UWV, almost half of the jobseekers who had applied for benefits in 2017 had not had a first interview in October 2018. The police were mentioned earlier. There were searched for 480 additional people, but the fully trained operational strength decreased by 674 fte. The MBO students we visited during the V100 to help us study the annual reports also expressed their surprise, as has already been said. Some of them wanted to be a police officer, but were not even allowed to apply, because they are still waiting for Dutch nationality. That's why they're choosing another profession now. I'd like to get a response to this question from the MBO students. I would like to take this opportunity to formally hand over all the questions raised during this V100, which have already been sent to the cabinet in writing, to the cabinet. Towards the Minister of Finance, who is doing something else, I say that during the V100 the Chamber also got its own briefcase. That was designed by Tijmen van het Cibap in Zwolle, one of the MBO students who helped us. So this briefcase belongs to all of you, I say to the roommates. Do you want me to just give you the whole briefcase? The questions are in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u129	Yes, thank you for offering.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u130	Please. They will of course receive an answer and the answers will all be on the website of the House of Representatives. Mr President, back to base. The people who work in the execution are often direct contact with the government. That basis needs to be in order and the execution fortunately gets some air: after five government agreements for the first time no generic device task. There is even some extra money for implementation organisations here and there, and that is positive. But how do we keep this in mind together when things are going to be less economically and these generic targets suddenly seem very attractive again? Tjeenk Willink rightly concluded his letter with the conclusion that the credibility of government and public services urgently requires that parliament and cabinet not only occasionally but also systematically pay attention to the implementation aspects of the policy. And now the Prime Minister's Ministry, General Affairs, is the only one not participating in the Quality Insight pilot. But he can make it up to you today. If he rewinds the film and is allowed to play again, how would he deal with that performance and the cuts? What lessons did he learn? Of course, as a Chamber, we must also look at ourselves as a client, as Mr Tjibbe Joustra told us. The execution must be cheap, cheap, cheap, but of top quality. We want a government based on trust rather than mistrust, but abuse must be impossible. We want rules that deliver customization for everyone, but which are also simple and for everyone to understand. We want a performance in which professionals get all the space, but nothing goes wrong and the minister has to be on top of it. We want... Well, maybe sometimes we just really want a little too much and we should realize that from time to time. Mr. Chairman. Also part of the basis is that taxpayers' money is spent according to the rules. We're walking our hare steps back. During the 1980s and 1990s a great deal of work was done to arrive at a favourable statement by the Court of Auditors. But the same Court of Auditors now concludes that we have fallen below the 99% legality limit according to the rules of the new Compatibility Act. In fact, if we only look at the direct spending of the government, we already fell through this critical limit in 2018. As if those warnings weren't enough, we were woken up by a proper distress signal. The balance sheet from the accounts didn't add up. Not only the internal control at the Tax Administration, but also the second line of defence, the Audit Service Rich, had not noticed the error at first. Mr. Chairman. It is our expensive duty not to slacken, not to take that nap in the shadows, but to pursue further improvement. Fortunately, we know from the past that it is possible. With political and administrative attention we can turn the tide. Right? That's how I ask the Minister of Finance. Fortunately, I believe that he was given this task by other colleagues as well. Mr. Chairman. This attention is also needed for ICT and information security, the foundation of a well-functioning government in the 21st century. Last year many colleagues asked for this and I told the Prime Minister that this was a chefsache. So it's a good thing he brought the Home Secretary this year. In doing so, the cabinet shows that it really recognizes the seriousness of this problem. But then I'll ask the Minister what happened last year. After our call here last year, the number of imperfections was not reduced but increased. It's already been memorized. In fact, it is now so bad that the entire government is at risk of closing down EU and NATO documents. Now I know that the management of the Empire is not a sexy subject, let alone its management and maintenance. But it's just a matter of taking care of things, getting the basics in order. So I ask the Minister what the concrete plan of action is and how we can control it. In this respect, I fully agree with Mr VVD's speech. It seems that many ministries are still inventing the wheel, while they still have similar problems: different ICT systems that have to communicate with each other, a lot of external hiring that makes it even more fragile. How are we going to break this and what else is the Minister going to do? The pattern of hasty-pain in high-conjuncture and "stop is decline" after that, we also see in the investment departments. After years of austerity, there is now a large investment ambition in Defence, but there are not enough people to make the plans or insufficient people to carry them out. While a new collective agreement is still lacking and not all ammunition can be delivered or paid in time, 1.2 billion has been transferred for investments in later years. I ask the Minister of Finance: how is that possible? He reviews all the spending plans in advance and only after his agreement will the ministers receive their money from the supplementary post. Isn't there a check on whether that money can actually be spent that year? The Central Planning Office is telling us this year: we no longer believe that the money is being spent this year, and we do not even count it anymore for the estimates of economic growth. Then my question is: what exactly are we supposed to believe in as a Chamber? Mr. Chairman. Also for infrastructure, in the absence of implementation capacity, a substantial amount has been transferred, while the reserved maintenance budget was less than what was necessary for delayed and overdue maintenance. Why then move on for investment instead of now tackling that maintenance? Here too: it's not that exciting and you don't score with it, but it's just wise policy. After all, the unusable bridge or the broken lock costs a lot of money to the economy, not to mention the vehicle loss hours that our IenW colleagues often use. How is the cabinet going to restore balance between these investments and that maintenance? In this context, I would like to bring to the attention of the cabinet the problem of income and expense to a plethora. Mr. Chairman. Making us more resilient in a next shock also calls for investment in our growth potential. In addition to this modern infrastructure, this means: world-class education and innovation. The Monitor Brede Prosperity indeed shows why and how that education is so closely related to that broad prosperity. The monitor, again complimenting the CBS, really brings that budget figure to life, shows what the consequences will be for later and what the consequences will be for elsewhere. But, as Mr Snels has said, they are a step further in New Zealand. We would like to go there, too. How do you ensure that the budget figures and the wider effects on prosperity come into one document, as they have done there? I hope for a more inspiring response to this inspiring example. Mr. Chairman. This cabinet makes its great investment in knowledge. At OCW nearly 4 billion more was spent than was announced in the millions note for that year. Elementary school teachers received almost 10% more salary, more help came into the classroom and the workload was reduced. But the State of Education does show that we still have a lot of work to do. Too few people choose to be teachers and too few teachers choose to work in a disadvantaged neighbourhood. Mr. Chairman. An increasingly erratic climate and an increasingly fragile nature also pose a risk to the future. The United Nations reported last month that biodiversity is rapidly reducing. In the Netherlands we see the same trend. The number of birds is falling, the fauna in the North Sea is declining and I'm just keeping my mouth shut about that turtle. Here too, stabilisation is needed. For this we need a good definition at a rich level of what good conservation of nature means. I'm asking the Cabinet for a definition of that. Fortunately, this cabinet has committed itself to a very ambitious climate goal. And recently, the First Chamber joined. The Prime Minister, together with France, is trying to further strengthen European ambitions in this area. I hope that a number of other countries will also join this ambition in the coming period. The cabinet has concrete plans to tackle the climate crisis, such as closing all coal power plants in 2013, starting with Hemweg next year. Also, the gas tap is closing faster and we are building more and more natural gas-free neighbourhoods. So we need that renewable energy, but we don't make it to the targets. That is strange, because the renewable energy subsidy pot is full and the newly formed budget reserve of 500 million climate money has been fully shifted to 2019. My appeal to the cabinet is therefore: let us use this to reduce the climate debt that we pass on to future generations. That too is investing in the future. Mr. Chairman. A final observation from the Monitor Brede Welvaart, which gives us a bad future, is the Netherlands' low score on gender equality. Specifically, I refer to the very poor 24th place in the ranking of EU countries when it comes to women in management positions. I would like to say to the Minister of the Interior that the government has an exemplary role to play in this respect, isn't it? According to the Annual Report Company Rijk, less than a third of the functions from scale 14 are filled by a woman. Can we at least agree that we are taking a very small step by putting at least one woman on each application committee from a scale of 14? Mr President, I will conclude. I tried to follow the trail all the way back to the ancient Greeks. Then the image of that hare of Aesopus, who quickly pulls a sprint, then needs to rest, slacken and loses. As it goes with a fable, I've tried to put the morals on top of it, but then it's usually not quite clear what morals that is. From Aesopus to De La Fontaine, the lesson has been interpreted differently over the years. Runners are killers, pride comes before the fall, or hasty haste is rarely good. Fortunately, it doesn't matter very much either, I think, because they are all useful lessons that we can take advantage of not to give in too easily to that reform fatigue, to be careful with sprints in distress and, above all, to make sure that they are not needed, by reforming before the need is man-made and investing wisely in time. Or, as former colleague Hanke Bruins Slot described it nicely in her farewell letter: hurry when you have time, because then you have time when you are in a hurry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u131	I had to let that settle down for a while. Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u132	To be honest, this is a very different story from D66 than I used to be. When I was allowed to be a coalition party, Mr Pechtold was always in the lead: more ambition, it has to be faster, much more has to be done! And now the argument of D66 is actually: be a turtle; don't hurry. I think that's crazy. Five laws have already been passed in the First Chamber, the new First Chamber has not even been sworn in and this cabinet has the greatest underexhaustment ever, said Mr. Sneller. This means that there are unfulfilled promises in the budget for education, care and infrastructure. Don't you address them to that? That's a promise, isn't it? It's strange that you don't give a much sharper judgment about that, but you say, "Well, take it easy, you're gonna be okay."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u133	Mr Nijboer has both listened poorly and a bad memory. That's a nasty combination, isn't it? I have just said that education has been spent 3.5 billion more on the Cabinet's Millions Note to which Mr Nijboer referred and in which he himself sat. Furthermore, the under-exhaustment in education is about 10 million out of 35 billion. I also called for attention to be paid to the under-utilisation of Infrastructure and Water State and to Defence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u134	Yeah, and I'd like to have a judgment on that. 'Cause we're gonna see it again this year. We are talking about 5 billion in public investment. That is more than twice as much as in that whole dividend debate that has kept us busy all over the past year. Nearly 300 million are in the care sector for general practitioners and 300 million are in the care sector. I can name a whole list. You called yourself cops. Infrastructure and Defense together are over 2 billion. If you don't make that happen, you can't be the main argument: take it easy? That's got to be dealt with, right? Shouldn't that money have been available to the public at large? That has now been paid off in the state debt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u135	I have tried to argue that the cuts made by the previous cabinet, for example in the defence sector, mean that investment cannot take place now. The people who have to prepare and carry out these investments are not here. Maybe Mr. Nijboer got a whole different morale out of the fable, but the turtle wins, huh?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u136	Thank you, Mr. Faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-06-tweedekamer-5.u137	We still have a number of speakers to talk about, but before we proceed, I shall suspend the sitting until 2.15 p.m. Then we'll vote first. Then we say goodbye to two colleagues. We will then continue with the debate on accountability.
