ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u1	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. We are now going to start a debate on poison leakage at the company Chemours. That debate will be held by the Chamber with the Minister and the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Water State, whom I would like to welcome. You all have four minutes' speaking time. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Laçin of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u2	Mr. Chairman. Tomorrow's exactly two years since I got to make my maiden speech here. Even then, it was about discharges of chemical and toxic substances from Chemours. My central question when the outgoing Secretary of State was: what are you going to do to protect residents from these discharges? A number of those neighbors were at the debate, including Hans. Tonight there are also neighbors: welcome. Hans and many other residents have completely lost faith in politics in this area. That's not crazy if we look back on this file in the last two years. A few examples. GenX is not all in Dordrecht and its surroundings in drinking water, but also in other parts of the country. Chemours still loses the carcinogenic PFOA, despite several periodic penalty payments from the province. Then the leak of poison gas PFIB, which is on the NATO list of chemical weapons. People with a vegetable garden within 1 kilometer of Chemours should not eat too much fruit and vegetables from their own garden, because that could be dangerous, according to RIVM.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u3	I'm gonna have to get something off my chest. Mr Laçin starts a whole story about the residents and says that they have lost faith in politics. I would just like to inform Mr Laçin of the SP that Mr Jansen, the SP deputy in South Holland, is both the person who granted the permit and the person who is required to maintain the permit during this period. My question to the SP is: are you schizophrenic or hypcrite?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u4	Neither, I can guarantee Mr Van Aalst. I would like to ask Mr Van Aalst to see what has happened since 2011, when the SP entered the college. The authorisation should be granted because the substance GenX is used in the REACH system. It cannot therefore be banned: Mr Van Aalst knows this very well. In recent years, Mr Jansen, together with the VVD deputy Mr Vermeulen, has ensured that discharges have gone down. So I would like to point out to Mr Van Aalst that our commitment is that discharges are going to zero and that Mr Jansen has done his best to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u5	That is, of course, a joke I hear from Mr Laçin of the SP. We went back from 6,000 to 2,000, while Chemours was already at 500 with a license of 6,000 in the beginning. So it's just pure symbolism to halve that, when they've been up to standards for a long time. So it's a little childish. If you had real balls with the SP in South Holland, you would have just banned it or called on the Minister to stop it. You still haven't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u6	We have said many times that we want to go back to zero. That is what we still want, and that is why I have been more than once critical of the REACH system that Europe uses. I haven't heard much about that from Mr Van Aalst. He advocates more room for industry and for the lobby. In particular, he must continue to do so, but the people living there in the gallery, Mr Van Aalst, are not happy with you and your commitment to the debate, I think. I will continue with my speech. Ten days ago it appeared that in the Papendrechts tap water there is 22 times more GenX than in the tap water from Dordrecht. If we take into account the stricter standards of the European Food Safety Authority, EFSA, then the amount of GenX in the Papendrechts tap water is far too high. I'll come back to that later. I can continue to give examples, but I think you too understand, Mr President, that residents are done with a billion-dollar company that is hurting their environment, their environment and their health. That's gotta end sometime. That's what the SP thinks. As if everything I have just mentioned is not enough, on 26 April last we received a letter from the Minister of IenW explaining that Chemours has been illegally pouring GenX on the water for years. That was found by Rijkswaterstaat two years ago. I would say good work that we now know, and now maintain and tackle. But no. And now it comes: Rijkswaterstaat instructs Chemours to apply for a permit for direct discharge of GenX and PFOA to surface water. Again, Rijkswaterstaat instructs Chemours to apply for a permit. And Rijkswaterstaat is directly under the Ministry of IenW. The illegal discharge can thus be legalized. As far as we're concerned, that's the world upside down. We need to minimize the discharge of carcinogenic substances and bring them back to zero. If these discharges are not authorised, then we must take firm enforcement action and not legalise them by means of permits, by which we facilitate the discharge. Authorisations for discharges to national waters are subject to this Minister. That is why I have only one question to ask her today. Can the Commission promise today to the Chamber and to all the residents concerned, who are sitting in the gallery today, that this permit will not be granted and that infringements will be dealt with? Is she going to show that she is also there for those people, and not just for polluting companies with a billion-dollar turnover? Mr. Chairman. PFOA is a carcinogenic substance and is on the list of substances of high concern. If a substance is on that list, the government may require that its use be phased out. I would therefore like to call on these directors not to grant a new licence for PFOA in particular and to phase it out. It may be, but the question is whether they are prepared to do so. Mr. Chairman. One final point. I mentioned earlier the enhanced standards of the European Food Safety Authority for PFOA and PFOS substances. It is incomprehensible that RIVM does not accept the stricter standards from Europe. The chemical industry lobby has a firm finger at EFSA, and it is precisely for this reason that it is remarkable that this club has stricter standards than RIVM. The SP believes that the enhanced standards should be adopted by the RIVM as soon as possible. Is that what the Minister and the Secretary of State are gonna do? Mr. Chairman. The SP stands for a healthy and clean environment for everyone. That is why people, animals and the environment are above polluting farms. It shouldn't be different for this cabinet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u7	I welcome the last words of Mr Laçin of the SP. The PVV also stands for public health and safe drinking water. I would like to ask my colleague from the SP if he can give me a moment when public health or drinking water quality has been at risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u8	I'm not necessarily saying that's what happened. For example, we know from PFOA that it is carcinogenic. This has been demonstrated in several studies. The substance is on the list of very worrying substances. Our point is that we should not want that kind of substance in our water, not our environment, our body, regardless of whether it presents a health risk immediately tomorrow, yes or no. We just shouldn't want that. If this cabinet and the PVV keep lobbying to make this possible, we're never gonna get there. That is where we stand against each other. I keep emphasising that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u9	Finally, Mr. Van Aalst.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u10	The PVV is not lobbying at all, the PVV is just sticking to the facts at the moment. It would adorn Mr. Laçin if he did. We can all stand up for public health and for good drinking water quality for everyone in the Netherlands; we agree with each other, but let us stick to the facts and simply note that public health and drinking water quality have never been at risk. So the people haven't been in danger. Stop panic-mongering all these people. It's just not true. Stop it!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u11	I think Mr Van Aalst is using great words. I said that in my input, too. The European Food Safety Authority has strengthened the standards. They've been made 15 times sharper. This means that in Papendrecht there is twice as much GenX in the tap water as the European authority now uses as a standard. So the conclusion may well be that public health has been at risk. I am not saying that it is, but I certainly cannot confirm what Mr Van Aalst is saying here that it has never been. Nor does Mr Van Aalst. It's easy to say facts-free things around here. You'll have to keep doing that. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u12	We are going to listen to Mr Wassenberg of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u13	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At the heart of this debate is the following: what do we think is more important, the importance of public health and a healthy environment or the interests of a company that poisons the environment with dangerous carcinogenic and hormone-distorting substances? Every few months, and sometimes every few days, the company Chemours gets very bad news. All these messages have the same background: Chemours leaks or pours toxins like GenX and PFOA, sometimes legally............................................................................................................................................... Residents of Dordrecht, but also of Papendrecht and Sliedrecht, are very worried about these emissions. It is not for nothing that there are several local residents, including a number of city council members, in the public gallery. Mr. Chairman. Those concerns are not for nothing. The RIVM showed last year that the situation is a cause for concern. In an extensive investigation, RIVM found small quantities of PFOA and GenX on vegetable gardens near Chemours. The RIVM found that the amounts found were within the standards, but advised to eat only limited vegetables from its own garden, because around Chemours there are more ways to ingest these toxins. I quote what RIVM writes: 'People living in the neighbourhood also come into contact with the substances via air and drinking water'. Let that go down for a second. In the vicinity of Chemours, residents of GenX and PFOA get inside via the tap water, via self-grown vegetables and by air! And what will be the next advice? Don't breathe too deep within a one-mile radius of Chemours? Moreover, RIVM adheres to outdated standards when it comes to PFOA. That has been discussed before in debates. The European Food Safety Authority, EFSA, has standards that are fifteen times more stringent than the RIVM standard. Mr Laçin has already mentioned it. The Secretary of State speaks of a dispute between scientists. At EFSA I found a document of 284 pages with background information on PFOA and I found one A4 piece of text on their website at RIVM. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State if RIVM's out yet. When will the Court hear that the stricter EFSA standards are being implemented? If the RIVM writes that the inhabitants of GenX and PFOA are getting in in different ways, so there is no escape from this and the standards for PFOA, according to the European Food Safety Authority, are fifteen times stricter than those of the Netherlands, then that vegetable garden advice from the RIVM must really be an explicit warning. For the Party for Animals this means that the emissions of GenX and PFOA have to go to zero. In 2018, Chemours imposed a penalty payment of €250,000 per violation for the discharge of PFOA and GenX. I would like to put the question to the Minister of Chemours who can deduct periodic penalty payments from the tax. The Chamber thought that was undesirable when it came to Tata Steel, but I want to know what's going on with Chemours. How often is a penalty payment imposed, can Chemours deduct the periodic penalty payments imposed from the taxes and has Chemours done so? Does the Minister agree with me that this would be completely disgusting? If so, how is she going to prevent it? Here's what I want to know. How does the Minister's decision to legalise PFOA emissions relate to European Commission Regulation 2017/1000 banning PFOA from next year? How can the Minister allow a substance, the production and marketing of which are connected, to be discharged into surface water? Has this regulation played a role in the Minister's decision? Finally, I would like to know from the Minister where Chemours is going to dispose of it, because that is also unclear. The minister writes "the New Merwede," but Chemours is located on the Lower Merwede. This leads to confusion and confusion, so please have a response from the Minister. Finally, Mr President. I have printed out the Commission's Regulation 2017/1000. It may be that the Minister is not ready and therefore I would like to give it to the Minister through the messenger.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u14	Fine. Thank you for your input. We can continue with Mrs Kröger's contribution from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u15	Mr. Chairman. Tonight we'll talk about Chemours again. As far as I am concerned, we have to translate the painful lessons that we learn from this case into the broader policy on very worrying substances. And those lessons are painful. The Minister wants to finance Chemours for annual emissions of 5 kilograms of GenX in the Lower Merwede, after it has been shown that the company has been doing these emissions illegally for years. That's rewarding bad behavior. This is for neighboring municipalities and neighbors not to be appreciated. Those 5 kilograms would be related to what hits the ground through emissions into the air, but Chemours says emissions are down by 99% in 2021. Then why doesn't the five kilograms take off every year? My adopted motion from 2017, i.e. two years ago, calls on the Minister to investigate whether we can ban GenX emissions on the basis of best available techniques. What the hell happened to that motion anyway? The same question applies to PFOA. Why is there an irreversible permit for 2 kilograms of PFOA since 2013, when this is about historical residues? This has to go to 0, doesn't it? Can the permit not be adapted to that? The 2013 licence shows that if you grant GenX, you may also get PFOA, a very harmful and persistent substance, in the production process. The Ministry said it hadn't been informed. How is this possible? How can that information from permits not be shared between the different environmental services and the ILT? Shouldn't there be a much better information system for this? This problem also arises in America. There is a lot of research going on about the fact that in the environment from GenX, which we are able to use, other PFAS substances can arise, which may have exactly the same properties, namely persistent, toxic and bioaccumulative, such as PFOA, a substance that we want to get rid of. GenX discharges can thus lead to PFAS substances, which can also enter our drinking water. How does the licence holder take into account those degradation products that may occur during and after the discharge? And is it true that, for example, pesticides take account of those breakdown products, but not other chemicals? And would the Secretary of State ask RIVM for advice on the risks of degradation products from substances of very high concern, in particular the PFAS group? That's a really big risk. The 2018 ILT study, again a year ago, on the waste streams from Chemours, shows that 55% of the GenX is disposed of as waste. The ILT is very concerned about the absence of control of these flows. How, for example, can the company itself determine that the standard for GenX in its waste stream is 1 billion nanograms per litre, while the drinking water standard is 150 nanograms per litre? And why is there no obligation to report that there are ZZS substances present in waste streams? In their letter from last year, the two directors write that work is under way. What has been done in concrete terms since then? How do we shut down the waste chain? Can the Secretary of State make it clear how much GenX is processed via which stream? Can the Minister and the Secretary of State guarantee that no more GenX will pass through the waste stream into the environment? And will there be standards for ZZS substances as part of a waste treatment authorisation? Finally. I would very much like us to learn lessons here, lessons on how we deal with very worrying substances. Is the Secretary of State prepared to do a sweep of our ZZS system, including waste disposal? Because we really need to realise that while all eyes are on Chemours and we often talk about that one company here, thousands and thousands of other persistent substances end up in our environment. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u16	Thank you, Mrs Kröger. Mrs Van Brenk of 50PLUS, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If you use the search function, the name "Chemours" is frequently found in the pieces of this Chamber, and that is not something to be proud of as a company. At first, Chemours GenX was found to discharge into the water and then proved to still use the carcinogenic PFOA and to discharge it illegally. The province of South Holland has imposed a penalty payment on Chemours and this committee wanted more and more powerful action. Can the Secretary of State report on the situation? Did Chemours get away with it, while neighbors couldn't eat vegetables from their own vegetable garden? The Secretary of State states that it is necessary to increase closely with the province of South Holland when it comes to reducing emissions. What is the current state of affairs? What about the training for licence providers made available by the Ministry to all water managers? Is this training already there and, if so, how many people participated in it? The Secretary of State would make a good impression in the Board of Directors where the extra risks are associated with high-risk companies. Have these agreements been reached? How do we prevent us from having the next Chemours wretched again tomorrow or the day after tomorrow? Is GenX now on the list of very worrying substances? The RIVM has considered GenX to be a substance that belongs on that list, hasn't it? The Secretary of State has promised that she would look at the lessons learned. Of course the Ministry and the ILT are ready, but what exactly have we learned from it? Is there a playbook or a manual ready? Can the Secretary of State explain that? Has the public authorities been able to recover all the costs associated with this problem from the polluter? Can the Secretary of State also comment on this? In its letter of 26 April, the Minister stated that there would be a permit for direct discharge of GenX and PFOA to the surface water of the Nieuwe Merwede. In addition, Chemours has a licence for indirect discharge from GenX. But shouldn't we aim for zero discharge of this crap into our water? It just doesn't belong in it, does it? Everyone's adage is: what you don't put in, you don't have to take out. We understand that the drinking water company is closely involved in licensing, but is it taking into account the point that the drinking water company points out that if the direct discharge permit is granted, the indirect discharge must be reduced to 15 kilos per year, otherwise the situation will result in GenX getting back above the norm? Can the Minister answer that? Can the rulers tell us why discharges should be possible? 'Cause we don't think we can explain it to the neighbors. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u18	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. I call Mr Ziengs of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Since 2017, as a Chamber, we have had a whole series of debates in which the company Chemours was very common, actually too common. My predecessor on this file, Remco Dijkstra, sometimes sighed: I've had more than enough of this Chemours thing. However, there has been an improvement since last year. The company's original closed attitude has changed into a more open attitude, including towards politicians. I've had them at the table myself to take a look at their company policy. However, as far as our group is concerned, a company of this size which works with substances that may be dangerous to public health must be in order. 'Cause you're just gonna live in the neighborhood and get messages that scare you over and over again. In previous debates, we insisted on the supervision by local and provincial authorities. Given the correspondence about this, you can see that these governments are on top of it. That's right. The province of South Holland is responsible for the control of indirect discharges, and that is what they are on top of. It is now up to the government, because this is a direct discharge permit. It's a discharge that actually comes from rainwater, that's what we read in the pieces. The Minister's letter is clear about the reason for the application for authorisation. For our group, drinking water must always be safe. You can't mess with that. A number of things are important to us. How are we going to monitor in the future? Who's gonna do that? How is that organized? And what is also important is how are we, as a Chamber, informed about this? That's it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u20	Thank you, Mr. Seengs. There is a question for you from Mr Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u21	As Mr Ziengs said, the government is now making its move. Rijkswaterstaat instructs Chemours to apply for a permit. We see now that bad behavior is rewarded. An illegal discharge that has been going on for years is now rewarded with a permit, which can simply be legally discharged. What does the VVD, who is known as a party of law- and-order, think of this way of working?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u22	I have read the same documents as Mr Laçin. It also shows that it was actually a discharge which was supposed to have been, perhaps, not authorised. Eventually, it was found to be illegal, because there was no permit for it. We all agree on that. Then you have to deal with the raw reality and you will have to make it legal. The reality is that this stuff eventually ends up in the surface water, as it is in the pieces.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u23	So Mr Ziengs confirms here that something that is illegal should now be made legal. In our experience, you have to deal with something illegal. That's what you're punishing. Then you're gonna maintain. You can capture the emissions, as Chemours does in the United States. Then it doesn't end up in the air or in the water. We should be able to do that here. Why don't we look at those options? Why is Rijkswaterstaat, a service directly owned by this minister, going to encourage Chemours to apply for a permit for an illegal discharge? That's the world upside down, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u24	Of course, it's just how you approach it. As I have just said, on the basis of the documents, we can see that this was a discharge in which it was found out that it was emissions that came back to the site via rainwater and which then ended up on surface water again by rain. Then you also have to ask yourself: is this malicious intent, or could it possibly have been covered by a normal permit and has it never been authorised? Then it's not so weird that people are still asked: get a permit for it. Of course enforcement is particularly important. That is what we have said in previous debates. I also indicated in my speech that people are now on top of it, especially in South Holland. That's right. If you're gonna make rules, you're gonna have to keep them. What I was just trying to say is that in this particular case, the only question is whether you should say to someone "make sure you get the permits in force now and that you've got your shit together" or that you're gonna punish it right away and say, "I'm gonna make it impossible." That's another thing. The reality is that it ends up in surface water in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u25	I heard Mr Ziengs say: if there is malpractice. Now I would describe Chemours as many different things, but not as a company that has an amateur status. It's a professional company that's been producing chemicals for years. So I assume it also knows what it's emissioning. It therefore seems very strange to me to say that there is no malicious intent; it was done by mistake. So I wonder how Mr Ziengs is rhymes with a professional company that has been working in the chemical sector for many years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u26	I have just indicated how the emissions to surface water have been generated. This was therefore an emission that was knocked down on the ground and which was then washed back into the surface water by the rain. If you take those pieces, you have to start asking yourself: has that ever been the case in other countries? I don't have that knowledge in my house. I can't make that out of the pieces either. We can make a big deal out of that with each other, but in the end you can see that the company is trying to get things in order. You have to show the necessary respect for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u27	This is, of course, a bit of Chemours' modus operandi: they do something, they can't, we get angry about it and then they do something about it. Of course, we can be happy with that, but I am not very applauding myself. But I am curious what Mr Ziengs thinks this means for other companies that also all say: "I didn't know it either. I'm gonna fix it now." So how do we deal with that? 'Cause that means we're gonna have to apologize to about every company.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u28	You will be amazed how many companies often find out afterwards that certain licences have to be applied for in a different way. Often there is no malice. That doesn't mean that you shouldn't maintain it, because that's why we have all the supervisors who are looking at whether the rules are being properly followed. But it's not for nothing that you also encounter other things in the country with companies that you say: gosh, you have to get them in order. These companies, too, are always given the opportunity to get their business in order. Often this happens first by means of a warning, or by means of a penalty payment etcetera. Every company gets the chance to get things in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u29	Mr Ziengs says the province is on top of it. He just mentioned the penalty payment. I have just said in my contribution: there is indeed a penalty payment of €250,000. We have seen that Tata Steel could simply deduct that penalty payment from the tax. I don't know if that's what's happening at Chemours. I am curious about that; I asked the Minister. My question to Mr Ziengs is: would he consider it desirable for Chemours to be able to deduct or withdraw his penalty payment from the tax?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u30	I also do not know whether this is normal practice, so we will have to wait and see what we can do about it. But it is strange to say that, if you get a fine, you can set it against your tax return. So in that respect, I agree with Mr Wassenberg that that is a strange thing to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u31	I didn't think I'd ever say it, but I'm missing a little of the indignation of the previous spokesperson on this file. I think a lot of parties in this Chamber have actually had a bit of an end to the way this company operates. And Mr. Ziengs is reasoning all the way from the company. They would try to do their best, while ultimately it's about the people who live there. They just don't want PFOA in the water, and we shouldn't want any of that. So how does running an illegal practice help our environment? How does that help people who are exposed to a carcinogenic substance?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u32	I fully understand your input. You are, of course, referring first of all to the contribution of my colleague Remco Dijkstra to this issue. That was also in a period, which I also described in my input, in which the company showed a very closed attitude when it came to providing information. We have also seen that we really had to get pressure, by letters, to get things over the table. That has annoyed me very much, too. But I also indicated in my input that the company has now shown more willingness to open up. The moment you notice that and try to get together the right facts, you should just mention it and then you should say in the end: we see that there is improvement in it. But we have to stay on top of it. That was my input, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u33	I fully agree with Mrs Van Eijs that this is the typical way of working: the company does not take action until it is caught, if something is detected. That is why I would very much like to receive a response from Mr Ziengs: how does he look at the fact that the company of its waste streams, i.e. the waste it offers to waste processors, does not proactively indicate whether GenX is in it, so that waste processors do not know whether it is in it and to what extent, and what should they do with it? How does Mr Ziengs look at that? Apparently, as a government, we have to intervene because the company doesn't do it by itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u34	It's normal to say that when you deliver waste, as a waste processor, you also indicate what's in the waste. So that's where we can find each other, because that's the normal way of doing things. I am also not aware at the moment that they are supplying waste, so they do not indicate exactly what is in it. That could be the case; I don't know the pieces, but maybe I missed something. At least I think it makes sense that when you offer waste to a waste processor, you also indicate what's in it. Whether it is asbestos or other substances, you need to be checked. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u35	Mrs Kröger, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u36	Mr Ziengs referred to the ILT report of June 2018, which is also on the agenda for this debate. This shows that Chemours does not have a structural system to indicate to waste processors whether GenX is in it and how much GenX is in it. As a result, waste processors have difficulty in properly handling it. So I hope to find Mr. Ziengs by my side if we asked the Secretary of State to take action here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u37	Mr. Ziengs, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u38	In any case, let us wait for the answer from the Secretary of State or the Minister on this point. I have indeed taken note of the report, but I am not aware of any cases where it is known that GenX was indeed present. The procedure therein has been described as such. That's correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u39	Good. Now is the time to listen to Mr. Von Martels of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Tonight we'll talk about Chemours again. My maiden speech, like Mr Laçin's, dealt with it, but then again the subject was discussed several times in the Chamber. That GenX is not a substance, but a technology, has been known to me for a long time. This technique has been used by Chemours since 2012 in producing, for example, teflon. Teflon has many applications. It is suitable as an anti-stick coating for pans and for heat resistant coatings. A teflon layer is even very suitable for politicians who pursue a long political career. But this aside. The GenX process also provides products for clothing, footwear and food packaging, such as pizza boxes and baking paper, but also for ski wax, footballs, sunglasses, mattresses, tape, adhesive tape and so on. The CDA thinks it's important that when we look at GenX, we focus not only on Chemours, but on the whole chain. GenX is not only produced, but consumers use it in their daily lives. Eventually, that leads to garbage again. This also makes it impossible for GenX products not to be present in our living environment. The ILT concluded in June 2018 that there is little or no attention to GenX substances in the waste throughout the chain. As a result, emissions of GenX substances to the living environment can take place at different locations in the chain. It also indicates that measures are expected from all parties in the chain to minimise emissions to the living environment. This is due to the obligation of care of the Environmental Management Act. It is a pity that the ILT has only looked at the waste chain that comes directly from Chemours and not the indirect waste chain through consumer products and other manufacturers that process GenX-related substances in consumer products. Mr. Chairman. I would like to receive a response from the Secretary of State to the chain approach. In addition, I would like her to take three specific issues with her at least. First of all, the Secretary of State states that it is primarily involved in the dissemination of GenX substances through the waste streams of Chemours. I would like to know if the Secretary of State understands the extent of Chemours' waste streams in relation to the size of the waste stream in the chain. I am referring here to both the small and the large waste chain. If the waste stream were greater than the direct production of GenX, I think it is right that this should be looked at. In addition, the State Secretary states that if a substance has been identified as a substance of high concern, the competent authorities concerned are legally obliged to update permits within one year. Can she tell us what's going on? Can she tell whether this also applies to the larger waste chain of consumer products? I understand that a few years ago Denmark was considering banning teflon in baking paper, pizza boxes and other food packaging material and that this would be discussed within the EU. Can the Secretary of State state state what the state of play is? Finally, Mr President. In another letter, the Secretary of State states that Chemours will significantly reduce the use of GenX technology in the coming years. Is this about reducing product emissions or about production itself? When it comes to the latter, I would like to know what the alternative is to replace it and how the Secretary of State will then create a safety-by-design concept, in which risks on the front can be made more transparent. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u41	I was just thinking about what part of this input I would be interrupting, because it amazes me that the CDA here during this debate very much points to the consumer and the waste streams that are being generated there, while there is only one company in the Netherlands that has registered the GenX substances in Europe. That company is Chemours. Then we should look at Chemours to stop using GenX and PFOA instead of pointing at people who order a pizza and get a pizza box at home? I think that is a very strange way of putting this debate in place, but that is on him. I would very much like to know from the CDA how it feels about the remuneration of illegal discharges with a permit. Is the CDA behind this process?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u42	No, I'm just trying to show in my input that, if we look very specifically at Chemours, we can be selectively outraged, but we need to look much wider, at the whole chain. GenX-related substances are everywhere in society. That's what I've been trying to bring forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u43	Thanks to Chemours, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u44	That's why we need the whole chain in sight. That's what I do. I want to take care of it, and I would certainly argue that Chemours should abide by the rules. Chemours has also expressed its willingness to respond to this. It is important to look closely at whether they comply with the licences granted. That's what my plea is for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u45	On the first point: Chemours is evil in this. They'll get it into our society. I would say: let's focus on that. Secondly, I hear Mr von Martels saying that Chemours has shown his willingness to cooperate. But they are rewarded by Rijkswaterstaat with a permit for illegal discharge. Does the CDA think Chemours is willing to cooperate? Or should we, as the government that goes over the waters of the state, say: we do not accept this, we maintain it and you stop doing this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u46	Look, as long as there are no permits, you can't keep them. The first requirement is for licences to be issued and for checks to be carried out on the basis of the agreements made. The company has to stick to that. Only then can you act and assess whether the company complies with the set standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u47	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u48	Finally. I hope that Mr von Martels will listen to himself in this debate. If there's no permit, you can't keep it. Those are your literal words. If there's no permit and there's a discharge, it's illegal and then you perform. We do so in all areas, and we do so everywhere, including in traffic. Why shouldn't you do that at Chemours and we should first grant a permit to maintain? You're dealing with illegal practices. That's how it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u49	I'm sure you're dealing with illegal practices. That's not something I've denied either. That's something I always underline and always want to see happen. But that permit needs to be issued, because with it you can show what you demand and what you expect from each other. That needs to be met.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u50	I agree with Mr Laçin that you can also maintain without a permit. But there's another thing I noticed and I know the CDA from. The CDA is "the polluter pays" or "the one who does something wrong must be dealt with." Now Mr von Martels points very much at the consumer who buys a pizza box, but he simply doesn't know that there is GenX or any other substance in it. But Chemours knows damn well what they're doing. How can Mr Van Martels equate that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u51	I think that some of my colleagues in the Chamber did not quite understand what I was referring to. I wanted to show that the whole chain is affected by the fact that genetic engineering-related substances are present in the environment and that we are dealing with them. It's a nice idea to say that we're completely free of those substances, but we'll never escape that. That's what my plea was based on. We need to look wider than we are now aiming all our arrows at Chemours. But, of course, the company must comply with all the permits and requirements that are imposed on it. That's my story.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u52	Then I can conclude that the CDA, despite their broader reach, also believes that Chemours is pursuing illegal practices and that they need to be dealt with accordingly. Then you can say: there are GenX-substances or PFOA in our lives, our system, our nature, etc. That's bad enough as it is, but it doesn't have to be that the company gets away with all kinds of illegal practices.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u53	Let us not pretend that the company has always got away with the offences they have committed; they are also regularly fined for this. Infringements have been detected in the past and action has been taken on them. It will have to be in the future. As far as I'm concerned, there's no news under the sun.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u54	Let's get back to this point. I really wonder how Mr von Martels classifys the government as authorising an illegal practice. Isn't that what it is when a company gets away with an illegal practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u55	We all know how this happened. We also know that at some point by atmospheric precipitation those products have flowed from the air into the street and into surface water, creating this unclear situation in the past. This has to be repaired, and that's what we're here for. If we're not going to fix that, we're obviously in the wrong place, but that's what this is all about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u56	Restoring is preventing those emissions. Restoring isn't about running an illegal practice. To avoid that, when the company says it's going to reduce emissions now, which also means that that atmospheric deposition would be reduced, why would we give an irreversible permit for 5 kilograms of GenX? Then we can also adapt that permit to the fact that it's going to be less anyway and then to 0?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u57	In every debate I have had so far on Chemours, the same picture emerged, which also emerged from the PVV and from the VVD: great indignation about the fact that it was all wrong with Chemours and great indignation about the need to restore things. But we are now faced with this situation, where, in the end, we need to find a way of working which is feasible for the future, and that is by granting a permit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u58	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u59	My question was: if I agree with Mr von Martels that a permit is now being granted, and if that permit is based on atmospheric emissions and their deposition, the company believes that emissions will be reduced by 99%. That wouldn't mean that the five kilograms would have to be granted irreversibly, would it? So we can say, every year X off and at some point it's 0.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u60	In this respect, the practice is unwieldy. You can assume that will happen, but that will indeed not be realistic. My input is based on that great chain approach. That is what we need to focus our attention on and not on what Mrs Kröger is specifically putting forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u61	Mr von Martels has no confidence in that company either, that is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u62	Mr. Von Martels draws it wider and also wants to look at the consumer. I'll do the same, and then I'll come back to Chemours via a circular movement. I referred to the European Commission's regulation 2007/1000 in my contribution. I can imagine that Mr von Martels does not have it ready, I forgive him. I will say very briefly what it says: from July 2020 the sale and production of PFOA will be banned. It also states that this is done to reduce or eliminate risks to human health and the environment, i.e. because of health effects. At the moment when it is immediately forbidden to produce or market PFOA, it is illogical, according to the Party for Animals, to allow it to be emitted. Does Mr von Martels agree with me that if you can't sell it, you can't actually emit it either? That is not what the regulation is about, but that would be the logical consequence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u63	I can't quite see whether that would be a logical consequence. I'm gonna have to think about that. I don't have a picture of that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u64	Then there is Mr Van Aalst.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u65	I'd like to make something right. Mr Von Martels said he agreed with the PVV and the VVD. Especially for the PVV, on the issue of this illegal discharge, the PVV certainly does not agree with Mr Von Martels. If we find that there is an illegal discharge, we are certainly not in favour of legalising it. I am surprised that Mr von Martels is in favour of that. Once again, following my colleague from GroenLinks, do you think that you should reward illegal discharges by legalising them, or do you say that we are going to maintain them, because we simply do not want this to happen any longer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u66	We know that illegal discharges have taken place, but we also know that we need to look ahead and find a solution for the period that is to come. It is therefore important that a solution is finally found. If it happens in the way that is proposed now, then we can live with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u67	I'm going to try one more time with Mr. Von Martels of the CDA. We note, and even Chemours notes, that there is in principle an illegal discharge into surface water. Then the situation cannot be explained that Rijkswaterstaat is ordering to apply for a permit so that they can legalize an illegal discharge? As a representative of the people, I think you should intervene with a controlling role at that time. I cannot imagine Mr von Martels disagreeing with that and saying: let us legalise this kind of illegal practice. Mr von Martels of the CDA must be simply in favour of tough enforcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u68	I know what's passed over Chemours in the past. It's been fined for that every time. It's been addressed to that every time. Again, we must now see how we proceed. A solution must then be found which is most pragmatic and which is most obvious. And we can agree to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u69	Thank you, Mr. Von Martels. Now we're gonna listen to Mr. Van Aalst from the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let the PVV be equally clear. Of course, we are not waiting for toxic gas leaks. And if they are already taking place, the safety of employees and residents must be paramount. But despite Chemours' direct reporting of the offense and fortunately no major danger has occurred, the left-wing environmental brigade is already ready to push Chemours into the environmental-criminal corner. Unlike these environmental hyenas, the PVV wants to keep the debate pure and civilised. It therefore sets out the facts. Mr. Chairman. Chemours has always just been licensed for the emission of GenX. It has also always been well below the authorised limits. In addition, it is now taking the initiative to completely dismantle them. It shouldn't have done that, despite the license of our SP deputy, but it does grace Chemours. Mr. Chairman. Chemours is now in the process of installing and testing, so that it can filter emissions from the air. This is expected to reduce GenX emissions and precipitation. So there will also be less rinsing off the site. The emissions we are talking about now will end up in the rainwater and so on in the surface water. The permit to which the Minister also refers in her letter of 26 April seeks to control and regulate these discharges. What is special is that Rijkswaterstaat ordered Chemours to apply for a permit for the illegal discharge, because then it is neatly legalized again. Mr. President, do you understand? Mr. Chairman. What the PVV stands out in this discussion is that it is always pointed at one another. The PVV therefore believes that there should be one specialised point of contact for the issue of this type of complex permit, in the Ministry's view.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u71	I would like to come back to the point where Mr Van Aalst refers to the SP deputy. The SP has always tried and done everything to bring these discharges back to zero, both nationally, here in the Lower House, as well as in the province. Only, our deputy in the Provincial States cannot do that, because national legislation and European legislation do not allow it. He tried. He brought it down. He took down Chemours and there were periodic penalty payments. The SP has therefore shown that it is for reducing and reducing these discharges to zero. I am very curious what the PVV has actually done to bring those discharges down. That doesn't seem so clear to me. Perhaps Mr Van Aalst can help me with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u72	That's kind of special. I do not think my colleague has looked very closely at his colleague in South Holland. I think it was precisely the PVV group in South Holland that set fire to the deputy of the SP. That has led him to start his symbolic policy: from 6,000 kilos to 2,000 kilos. But if he had really had balls, he would have just brought it back to an acceptable level, where Chemours just had to do his best to bring it back.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u73	Once again, what has Mr Van Aalst done to bring it back to zero?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u74	Well, in these debates on Chemours, I have said many times that we need to settle this with each other here if we want this to go back to zero. I have tabled several motions on this subject, but a majority in the Chamber still opposes this rather than supporting us. I think I'm going to say it again today: let's set up a window. At least we won't have to leave it to that SP deputy in South Holland, who apparently isn't strong enough to take care of it. So, therefore, my proposal to the Minister of State or Secretary of State: can we just settle this in the Chamber ourselves? Then we can fight together here and determine what we find acceptable or not acceptable in our drinking water.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u75	Please continue with your input.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u76	The permits for discharges and emissions via the province, water boards, Rijkswaterstaat, municipalities and environmental services are now being issued. The PVV would prefer to place this with one competent authority. Can the ruler indicate whether she shares this view? As far as the facts are concerned, there is no evidence at present that our drinking water or food is in immediate danger. There's been a lot of measurements on GenX and there's never been so many nanograms that there's any need to sound the farther alarm. So let's stop panic-mongering and stick to the facts. Therefore, the PVV calls on both directors to state that safety, public health and drinking water quality have never been compromised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u77	Thank you, Mr. Van Aalst. Finally, Mrs Van Eijs of D66 has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's not the first time we've talked about Chemours here in the Chamber. To put it mildly, it makes me poisonous by now. As I said in 2017, it's crazy to say that a company that knew in the 1980s that the substances it uses are still carcinogenic, still illegally pouring toxic substances into the river. For decades, this company has deliberately and knowingly spread toxic substances through the air, rain and river around it, with the result that not only its employees, but also those living around it and the environment have extra toxic substances in them and that drinking water companies are forced to extract GenX substances from the water with additional purifications and therefore at high cost, water intended for our drinking water. Apparently, this company doesn't care what it means to people's health or the environment. After a lot of social pressure, political resistance and therefore changing legislation and enforcement, Chemours switched to a different production technology, GenX. And now it seems the exact same circus is repeating itself. Now we find that again or, rather, there are still illegal discharges from GenX and PFOA into the river. Because this is illegal, we're going to legalize them as a government after all. This can't be right, can it? D66 continues to worry about the effects of discharges from Chemours on the environment and health. In an ideal world, Chemours produces 100% clean, without any negative impact on its employees and on the environment. No indirect and direct discharges, i.e. a closed system. Before it is said that this is not possible: that is what people thought at first in horticulture, and there we now see that there is a completely closed system for water. Why wouldn't Chemours be able to do this? I would like to hear from one of the directors or talk about this with Chemours and the Dutch chemist cluster. Do Chemours and the Dutch chemical cluster take steps towards developing closed systems? When are we gonna see any of that? Chemours is under enhanced surveillance. The escape of toxic substances such as PFIB raises the question of which toxic substances have all been released from Chemours in recent years. I'd like an explanation. However, I would like to take a moment to reflect on the Minister's letter announcing her intention to grant licences for direct GenX and PFOA. Firstly, I must say that this letter contains a lot of official itch words: atmospheric precipitation, national enforcement strategy. This simply means that there is rain with GenX substances from the air emissions of Chemours and that rain and drainage of the soil cause PFOA and GenX substances to be washed out in the Merwede. And does the national enforcement strategy mean that we are not going to enforce it now? I'd like an explanation from the Minister. And can the Secretary of State indicate how many of these situations have caused illegal direct discharges from other companies in the last two years? The letter in which the Minister explains why she is going to grant these permits is really too brief. D66 doesn't want to reward bad behavior. We therefore want the assurance that everything has been taken out of the box to prevent illegal discharges and not to grant these permits. What precedent does this set for other companies? As far as D66 is concerned, we do not grant these authorisations, not if all the legal options are completely exhausted and even if EFSA still has to come to the conclusion on the standards for PFAS, on what a safe exposure is. At the end of this year, EFSA completed its investigation, but in December 2018, it came to the preliminary conclusion that EFSA sets 15 times higher standards than RIVM. If we were to use this EFSA standard, the drinking water from Papendrecht would be significantly above this standard. Surely that can't be the intention? I would like to hear from the Minister how we are not going to reward wrong behavior and how we stick to the credo 'polluter pays'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u79	Thank you, Mrs Van Eijs, for your input. I shall suspend the sitting until 9.20 p.m. Then we will listen to the response of the rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u80	It is nice that the rulers have also found the room again. I give the floor to the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll take care of the water part. The other parts are with the Secretary of State. So she'll take it from me. In 2017 it was found by Rijkswaterstaat that GenX is present in the direct discharge. It has already been discussed extensively: Chemours did not have a permit for this. When I got the file in my parafe app, as it goes with us, and I saw in it the proposal to grant a permit, I had the same reflex that I saw with many of you. I thought: have they gone completely crazy; of course I will never do that. That was my first reaction. Then, of course, I went to read the file with attention, and then it turned out to be a bit more complicated. I'd like to try to take you through that story a little bit. The fact that Chemours did not have a licence to do so does not make the discharge illegal in itself. For this, we always need more insight into the cause and you also need to know if Chemours has deliberately acted culpable. That is the starting point of the enforcement strategy. Between September 2017 and May 2018 research was carried out on the source of the discharge. Where did that come from? It has shown that precipitation from the air and drain of skywater from the terrain were the causes. I also understand Mrs Van Eijs' itch about the language, about words such as 'atmospheric precipitation' and 'deflux of celestial water'. Let's just call it "precipitation" or "rain." No other sources have been found that could cause direct discharge of GenX. So it only concerns skywater from the terrain. The direct discharge of celestial water with GenX is therefore a derivative, which also results from airborne emissions. Air emissions are permitted in the environmental permit. This means that direct discharges to water are not illegal and are not deliberately reproachable. That is all legal language, but unfortunately I have to use it as well. In this case, you cannot say that Chemours did not comply with the rules, nor can you directly blame the company for this direct discharge. This is an important starting point for the enforcement strategy. Another important starting point is, of course, that Chemours should cooperate in research and also be prepared to take action. That was the case. I see Mr Van Aalst standing at the interrupting microphone. There's gonna be a lot more explanation, but I don't know if he's got a question right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u82	It might be good if Mr. Van Aalst starts asking his question now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u83	It's kind of strange to me, isn't it? Indeed, we note that there is simply a permit for air emissions. Chemours has indicated that it will reduce emissions by 99% in the coming years. So we're actually talking about a temporary precipitation that's still on the ground. And then the Minister still chooses to do so despite the fact that she herself was very shocked to legalize it. You can also just say to Chemours: gosh, all that water that washes away, you catch it; we're not going to legalize it; it's temporary, because you're going to stop, you're going to bring it back 99%? You can also say: something that is illegal, something that is not licensed, it does not work that way, we do not accept that. Surely that would have been a much more logical explanation to all those inhabitants and neighbors, and also to the people in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u84	That's exactly what the conversation with the company started about. Of course, you have to see where it comes from first. It thus appears to come from the rainwater, which appears to be taken to the ground from the air emission from the precipitation. That's how it gets on the ground, and that's how it washes out. So once they were behind that, they also started talking to Chemours. I would also like to tell you exactly how that went. It shows what different steps there are, which shows what you can and can't do. I'll get to that in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u85	I understand the step-by-step plan that the minister is going through. It may not be reproachable what Chemours is doing, but I note that I am choosing another solution on behalf of the PVV. As far as precipitation is concerned, it is a temporary story, especially since Chemours has indicated that we are going to reduce air emissions by 99%. That means we won't have the situation where it gets into the sky water anymore. Then why would you issue a permit now to get rid of it legally, when it's a temporary solution? Doesn't it make sense for us to choose a temporary solution in the capture of the skywater?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u86	Because it is a substance that we prefer not to have in the environment at all. With this permit, we can now monitor whether it is going to be less. As long as we don't record that in that permit, we can't force us to keep an eye on the fact that it's actually getting less and that we're getting closer and closer to zero. So we won't be able to get to zero, because the production doesn't completely go away. The revision permit, which is being considered and what the province of South Holland is doing, will provide a certain level. That will have to match what, of course, is still coming down from this emission. Even though Mr Van Aalst says he already knows the steps, I think it is important to mention what has been done by RWS in relation to Chemours. That assessment should be carried out in three steps. You should always see if you can tackle the source, so prevent the contamination of the water from happening. This can be done by not using the substance anymore or by adjusting the process. The replacement of GenX with a less harmful substance is not currently under discussion. The Secretary of State will tell you more about that. It is not yet a very worrying substance. Preventing it from raining and the rain coming down pollution is of course not an option either. The second step is to minimize the discharge. If it isn't completely removed, how can you make it as little as possible? The direct discharge of PFOA and GenX takes place from the soil cleaning and by washing off what I now call just rain or sky water. The most extensive treatment is already used in the treatment of groundwater released during the treatment process. It is not feasible to minimize further. Technical measures to limit the amount of GenX in the discharged skywater are also not feasible, as they are no longer effective at such low concentrations. In such a low concentration, you can no longer purify. We have to assume that the technical experts have made a good assessment of this. The amount of GenX in the discharged skywater can only be reduced by reducing emissions to the air. Its competence lies with the competent authority, South Holland. They are working on it in the revision permit, to ensure that as little as possible is emitted by air. The Province of Zuid-Holland and Rijkswaterstaat together look very critically at the possibilities of achieving the emission to the air. That was step two. The third step is the emission test. All the above is useless if the emission test shows that there is an unacceptable discharge. If the quality of surface water or drinking water no longer meets the standard, then it is of course ready. Then you'd have to shut down the whole factory or do something else if you can't do it any other way. Then the discharge is simply not allowed, whether it has been for years or not. This should be based on the measuring low-water drainage. That's domestically really the worst case scenario. If that can't be solved, the company should close down. However, the emission test shows that there are no problems with regard to the quality of surface water or the supply of drinking water. The impact on the drinking water intake point is so small that it cannot be measured: less than 1 nanogram per litre, while the standard is 150 nanogram. If a permit is issued later, we can keep an eye on the quantities of PFOA and GenX discharged. That is why we have also included a monitoring obligation in this permit. In addition to the mandatory monitoring by Chemours, they will have to keep up with that self-sustaining feature, as well as Rijkswaterstaat will continue to monitor the discharge from its supervisory role. In this way, it remains clear how that develops. Again, there is no question of additional new discharges. I understand that people there were worried that we had granted something new. This has already come out in the production process through the rain. As long as it is produced, so will it continue. Again, there is also no risk of drinking water intake. This has also been confirmed by measurements by the drinking water company itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u87	I have a few questions about this. Maybe I should call it "care." The Minister says: we can't do much about it, because it's being emitted by air, we're not about that, and it's raining out. It is monitored, but has some effects been taken into account? Firstly, it is a very persistent substance, especially PFOA. Once you've got it in your body, it's gonna take you a long time to get rid of it. I am particularly concerned about whether the cumulative effects have been taken into account. It looks at the drinking water, but people can also get it in by air, via vegetables. I called it inhaling. There are several ways to get that substance in. Every time we look at separate sources, residents of course have nothing to do with these separate sources. A person who drinks one or two liters of water a day also breathes in the air and may also eat lettuce from his own vegetable garden. Thirdly, has it been taken into account that the standards for PFOA might become 15 times more stringent? That is what EFSA is proposing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u88	With regard to drinking water, I indicated that it is less than 1 nanogram per litre, while the standard is 150 nanogram per litre. Then it would make no difference even within that RIVM versus EFSA dispute. All laws and regulations have been complied with. Then there is no other option but to grant the licence and use it to monitor and be able to sit on it. We are going to reduce it by 99%, as has been said several times. You must realise that it is not immediately removed from the environment once production has stopped. It will really take a long time before it gets less, but it has to get less now. And we can follow that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u89	The standard is indeed 150 nanograms per kilogram of body weight, pardon, per litre. In drinking water, it's one nanogram. I'm not worried about people drinking 150 gallons a day. Well, then you've got another problem. But water is one of the things. You're breathing it in through the air, too. That won't be the big problem either, but if you add up all the little bits, especially those via the vegetable garden... There are several sources to get it in. Again, once those substances are in your body, you're not gonna lose them. You can get that 150 nanogram if you drink water for two months, and you can't lose it right away. So you build it up slowly and you don't lose it. That is also a concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u90	I understand Mr Wassenberg's concerns very well, but these standards are not separate. These individual standards do take into account the accumulation effects. The organisations are aware of this. Someone who drinks water also gets substances in a different way. This makes it possible to apply a different and sometimes even stricter standard in surface water. That is where you have to take into account the fact that fish can also get it in and pile it up in fish. So that is taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u91	In the case of discharges, you are talking about an unbearable and undesirable practice, and I find the Minister's logic incomprehensible that you need to be able to monitor it first. I am also curious to see how the Minister looks at this in the rest of her policy areas. So do we always have to commit unauthorized and undesirable practices first, because then we can only monitor it as a government?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u92	No, I didn't say it that simple. I've outlined the steps and of course you always look at where it comes from first and whether it's something the company could have prevented. Has it been going on? That was not the case. In fact, it took a long time to find out exactly where it came from. Then it is common practice to follow this enforcement strategy, which we have established with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u93	The Minister now invokes that it is customary to begin an unauthorized and undesirable practice in order to be able to maintain it. I don't recognize that from the enforcement strategy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u94	I didn't say it that way, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u95	That's literally what the minister just outlined.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u96	No, I'm not saying that. If you find such a situation, you should see what's going on. In this case, it had never been done before and it was not at all clear where it came from. The moment you figure out what it's in, you're gonna figure out how to deal with it. It's not an illegal substance! So you can't say they were trespassing. The licence holder also did not appoint it in the authorisation process. Of course, that's going to happen now. You can also see that the province of South Holland is now paying extra attention to reducing emissions to the air, also in connection with this. They do that, because it also has this effect once again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u97	It's a wonderful argument, because it's not about whether it's an illegal substance. The point is, you weren't allowed to dump it without a license at the time. You need a permit and the company has spent years in the environment without a permit, which we find undesirable, because we want to get rid of PFOA altogether. The Minister then says "I have to do it first, because otherwise I can't do anything with it" and that remains a very wonderful reasoning. But my question is actually: if the company itself says that they want to reduce emissions from the air by 99% by 2021, why are we going to run the company for 5 kilograms annually?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u98	That should definitely go down. That's the maximum, and it shouldn't come up in the first place. I was just trying to tell you that it's also, of course, one-on-one related to that revision permit. So it will have to keep pace with going down. This will allow us to follow up on whether it will actually be less.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u99	I very much agree with Mrs Kröger, because I think it is a truly wonderful argument for authorising an illegal discharge, because that is what it is all about. It's not an authorized discharge. The Minister can say no, but it is certain that Chemours did not have a permit to discharge onto surface water in this way. Rijkswaterstaat is going to run it now, so it's legalized. So it wasn't legal. That is the clear conclusion as far as I am concerned, but my question is another. I have already heard the Minister say a number of times that there is no other way to capture or capture and that this permit is therefore necessary. I do not agree with that, because in the United States Chemours is simply catching emissions. So it doesn't end up in the water or in the air. So it's possible. I went to work at Chemours and Chemours himself indicated that Chemours Dordrecht is too small for that size. The company therefore makes an assessment of whether or not it can be done. Is this possibility, this option, also discussed in those talks with Chemours?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u100	I think that's why Chemours says: we're going to a 99% reduction and not 100%. I don't know which options exactly have been discussed. I have not been there, but I must of course trust with all the experts that all variants and everything that is possible have been looked at. In fact, that is step two that Rijkswaterstaat has to follow as a licence holder. How can you minimize the discharge? This is also part of the revision permit that the province of South Holland is working on. Because that starts with those emissions to the air. Maximum effort will be made to reduce these emissions as far as possible. So you end up with a much smaller emission.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u101	It's very strange what's happening here right now. The Minister first states in her full list that no other option was possible and that this authorisation is therefore necessary in order to maintain and monitor it. And now, in her answer to my question, she states that she doesn't know what was said in that conversation. Then I do not think you can say that this option is not possible here, although it has been implemented by Chemours in the United States. Then why can't it be here? If the Minister can't explain that here, I find it very strange when she says: well, there's no other way, so we're going to grant the permit first. So I want the Minister to really ask about this and then come back to the Chamber and answer this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u102	Mr President, I find this a little faint. Would Mr. Laçin like a call report? Of course you can't. But if it reassures him, I'd be happy to promise him that I'll ask him if all these options have been checked. I have faith in our experts. They started talking about how far you can bring down emissions if you apply all the best possible techniques. I would like to ask them again if they want to write down that they have all done so, but I have no reason to doubt that they have done so neatly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u103	Finally, Mr. Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u104	We just don't get a clear picture of what possibilities have been discussed. I see the Minister laughing now, but that is what is being outlined here. Mr Van Aalst gave a very simple solution, but the Minister continues to stick to three rules. However, the answer to the specific question put by Mr Van Aalst and me is not available to the Minister at the moment. I am very curious about that answer, because there are certainly other techniques to solve this. But instead, the Minister is going to run illegal practices.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u105	Mr. Chairman. I've made it very clear that you'll first see if it's at the source and what that source is. Is that where you can take it? Then you see how far you can get it down. And the third is that emission test. What remains, in the most minimal form, is that still a danger to public health and so on? Well, that's not the case, so this is the only option. But I would like to ask you again and get a look at all these best possible techniques, and whether all of them have been discussed, because this will also be covered in the review permit for Chemours.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u106	I welcome this commitment, and I would very much like to see it, given that there is a motion taken over which is literally asked to see whether, on the basis of best available techniques, there can be a ban on GenX emissions and discharges. The Minister has taken over this two-year-old motion. And what does she do next? She's gonna run the discharge now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u107	Well, yes, but with due regard for that motion. Anyway, I'm quite willing to check all of that for you and get it straight, namely that there is real and the best available techniques are being looked at to get it as close to zero as possible. But we can't get it to zero; we have to be that real. If that's what you want, the only option is to shut down the factory.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u108	I'm starting to worry. I have already pointed out to the Secretary of State, who is sitting next to the Minister, at the committee meeting that she is using very big words about Chemours. They are, in fact, a bit at odds with the solution the Minister is now putting forward. I shall therefore be asking, in the time-limit of the Secretary of State, how she looks at this solution. After all, she always wanted to punish severely and severely if Chemours didn't follow the rules. So now we have a situation in which something is not authorised, and the Minister does not choose to maintain it, but to legalize it. Isn't the Minister afraid that this will lead to schizophrenia within her ministry?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u109	Not at all, because I'm just as hard in it as the Secretary of State. If a company, and especially if Chemours doesn't follow the rules, we have to act in a enforcing manner. But if there is no offence, which was actually the situation, then you cannot impose a fine or anything. That is simply not possible. If you don't know there is something, there are no rules; it's that complicated in this world. But now that we know, you're gonna have to get on with it. Now you have to see how to get it as far as you can to zero. Now we can also monitor it, and make sure that Chemours actually gets this down. I'm afraid I can't make it prettier.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u110	Of course, the picture that is sketched here is not correct. If I build a house tomorrow without a permit, the municipality can't say one day later: you know, we're giving a permit now, because it fits, it can. What's happening here is something that's not authorized. If you are going to discharge, culpable or not culpable, that is not a legal discharge. Then we have to act and maintain and not say: well, you know, we just issue a permit, then we don't have to keep it. That is the reverse world and that is also a totally wrong signal towards residents and other licensing and enforcement. I do not understand why the Minister chooses this solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u111	Then I'm a little surprised, too. Mr Van Aalst has always spoken positively about the company. The only thing you might think here is that the company would have known all along that the emissions were there but didn't take them into account and didn't mention them in the licensing process. Because that's the only reason it wouldn't have been reported otherwise. They didn't know there was that effect either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u112	I do not agree with Mr Van Aalst very often, but I fully agree with him here. If there's a breach, you have to intervene, period. But that won't be my question. The Minister says that 99% is the maximum achievable. But what the Minister means, in my opinion, is that 99% is the maximum achievable for what Chemours wants to pay. 100% is feasible but that is much more expensive. I'd like to mark that. The reason I'm betting on that one percent is as follows. I just talked about the cumulative effects and the fact that it's a persistent substance that can stay in your body for months and years. The minister says that all these effects have been looked at, but has there also been a look at, for example, the effects on a body when PFOA comes in, when PFAS comes in, when GenX comes in? The people in Dordrecht, Sliedrecht and Papendrecht get a combination of those toxic substances and that is also a problem. Is that what you've been looking at? So the puzzle is a little more complicated than the individual substances. Cumulative, persistent and a combination of substances: has that been looked at?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u113	On that last part, what's it doing in people's bodies? The Secretary of State will respond in a moment. On the first point, which is 99%: perhaps it could be 99,9%. That's exactly what's going to be tested in Chemours' revision license. Is this the most feasible in the best available techniques? That assessment will have to be carried out. The company says 99%. That authorisation shall be assessed. If the province of South Holland is convinced that it can be higher and that it is proportional and feasible, then they will undoubtedly want to record it in the permit and then it will work again. Then this five kilos could go down even faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u114	We're making very small steps forward. We were at 99%, and now we're going to 99.9%. Then there's one more promille left. In any case, I think that is a promising signal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u115	Mr. Laçin, I can see that it unfolds things with you, but I'm asking you not to repeat yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u116	No, I'm not gonna do that, Mr. Chairman. Here's what I'm noticing. If the minister continues, we should almost feel sorry for Chemours that they didn't know; "it's all so bad because they're trying so hard." I would like to remind the Minister that she is not a spokesperson for the company, but that she is the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State, also for all those people sitting up there in the public gallery. For years they have been dealing with discharges into their living environment and with health risks. Then there is another point, namely that illegal practices are made legal. I want this minister to live up to what's happening there, rather than just what's happening at Chemours, that it's so pathetic for Chemours, that they didn't know and that they don't mean evil. 'Cause we're way past that phase with this company. Is the Minister aware of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u117	What Mr Laçin is saying now, I cannot put it at all, because Mr Laçin heard me say in a public debate here in the Chamber in the first debate on Chemours that I sometimes had the impression that they were not interested in it and that I had no interest in it at all. That's still true, but if a company sticks to the rules, you can't do anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u118	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u119	They have not complied with the rules, which is why we are having this whole debate. That is also why this Minister is going to authorise an activity that was not authorised. If it was by the book, it'd already be authorized. Then we can talk here about culpability, but Chemours emits GenX and PFOA and they know that; that's authorized. If it ends up in places where it shouldn't end up, which was the case in this case, they are culpable. Whether it's too bad or in good faith, that's not the point. The point is that something illegal that Chemours has done is licensed here and that this minister rewards the company with a permit so that it can continue with what it has been doing illegally for years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u120	This is not correct, because if there are no rules for something, you can't break them either. In this permit, we'll make rules for that now, and then you can start monitoring it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u121	The fact that there's no permit is the rule that you can't get rid of it. Period. That's not so complicated, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u122	I think we're repeating ourselves. The fact that it would have this effect via the emission from the air, via sky water, and then again via that leaching, was simply not known. Now that it's out, we're gonna work on it, but on something you don't know, you can't keep it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u123	Mr. Van Aalst, a new point?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u124	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I'm not going to repeat myself. It hits each other, but I'm going a step further. That something like this happens, I understand, but the next thing I know, it surprises me. Why did the Minister, on behalf of Rijkswaterstaat Chemours, force him to apply for the permit? If this were possible, wouldn't a company itself be taking action to apply for this permit? I can imagine that the Ministry would be focusing on another possibility or solution, regardless of whether that was legally possible. Why does Rijkswaterstaat force a chemical company that does an unauthorized discharge to apply for a permit? That's a strange situation, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u125	That's not a strange situation at all, because there were no rules. We are making it now, and we can now also keep an eye on whether it really is getting any less.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u126	So the only reason for the permit is actually that we want to make it less? I understand that we actually found out here that we didn't want it, in fact, that Chemours doesn't really want it either, otherwise you're not going to reduce your emissions by 99%. Chemours says: according to the permit we all received from the SP, it is fine, but we are going to take action ourselves and we are going to reduce it by 99%. And then the Minister says: yes, but we want to reduce it. No, we don't want that at all. Chemours doesn't want that either. Then why is Rijkswaterstaat forcing Chemours to apply for a permit?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u127	In order to be able to force it to fall, you will have to subtract 99% of the 5 kilos. That's just gotta be less. You can monitor that now if you have that license. As long as you don't have that license, you can't. Then it stays something you can't do anything with, while we can watch it now and monitor it exactly. The company and Rijkswaterstaat can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u128	I have the impression that we are now getting the same kind of questions and the same kind of answers, so I really want to continue with the Minister's speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u129	Then there was the specific question on which Merwede it actually takes place, to say it disrespectfully. The discharge takes place at the Lower Merwede. That's what the design license says. The permits do not pose any direct and indirect risk to drinking water, as is also evident from the measurements made by the drinking water companies themselves. Then there is Mr Ziegs' question as to whether it is true that Chemours has become more open in communication. I think they've actually gotten a little more open. Since last year they have presented themselves somewhat more to the environment. There has obviously also been more contact between Chemours and the competent authority. How the content of the information to that competent authority is now proceeding, I cannot judge. That's up to the county. The Ministry is also informed about new steps by Chemours. That is, of course, included in the information we send to your Chamber. Then Mr Ziengs asked how exactly we are going to monitor that. It is indeed important to include the specific requirements in the permit, so that we can also monitor that discharge. One requirement in the permit is... I will color it a little bit more... a measurement and management plan in which Chemours indicates which monitoring it will carry out itself. In addition, Rijkswaterstaat will monitor, on the one hand, to see if Chemours complies with the rules, on the other hand, to see if the concentrations are indeed falling, while, of course, that air emission is being reduced further. Rijkswaterstaat also has a monitoring programme in surface water, apart from that discharge, to monitor the presence of GenX and PFOA. Finally, specifically about drinking water. Of course, the drinking water companies also monitor the concentrations in the drinking water consumed. I have already said what substances are involved. A further question was asked by Mrs van Brenk about the training pathway. That was tendered last spring, and the training is now being set up and completed. After the summer, the first courses will start. Those were the questions, I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u130	Now let's see if there are any new questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u131	The minister says: Chemours didn't know it was releasing these substances, so there is no malpractice. But Chemours knew they were extremely dangerous and carcinogenic. If you lose a part unseen, then is that serious culpable action, or seriously culpable non-action? You can't just say it wasn't an offense, it wasn't supposed to happen, sorry people? This is really a big reproach.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u132	These are legal qualifications that Mr Wassenberg has expressed. I think all the authorities involved have looked at this very carefully. Once again, I have already promised Mrs Kröger or Mr Laçin, I am no longer sure to specify exactly what discussions have been held, and I have said that all the legal possibilities have been taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u133	That's not exactly an answer to my question. The Minister says there is no malice. How can the Minister say that? Because Chemours knows they're very dangerous substances. PFOA is on the list of very worrying substances. Then you're gonna pay attention. You're not gonna lose something unseen, are you? I'm not referring to a legal term, but let me put it this way: you can't do this, can you? That's not a legal term. You can't just work with dangerous substances like this and say: well, we might lose something, but we don't notice, so we can't blame ourselves for that. It can be blamed on Chemours; it must be blamed on Chemours, also by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u134	I cannot judge whether or not they have known this, so I do not know whether or not there is malice; I cannot comment on it. All I can see is that this was unknown from both sides. And whether or not that's true, a judge may have to rule on that. Of course, I can't do that. All the authorities assume the information that is provided and then walk neatly the paths I have just outlined to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u135	Mr. Wassenberg, finally, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u136	Finally. That Chemours didn't know, the company could be blamed. That is a serious deficit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u137	I think we can answer Mrs Van Eijs' question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u138	Apart from the discussion of whether Chemours could have known or not: if the company didn't know, I find that worrying too. Because that means, for example, that we have to legalise all of them in many other companies, which may not know something either. Or doesn't it mean that? What is the precedent of the fact that we might say very easily now: they didn't know, so we're going to legalize?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u139	I think there is, of course, a great deal of experience in the Netherlands with regard to all kinds of emissions, including licensing. So in most production processes, all substances and all possible emissions, I suppose, are in the picture. Then, hopefully, this situation won't happen more often, but you can't rule him out either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u140	That's what worries me. Chemours is not the first company to be the best; it is under a magnifying glass. We've talked about it a lot; the province is on top of it. Now it turns out that substances were released in a different way. I think that almost everyone in this committee thought: oh, here we go again. And now it turns out that people obviously didn't know. So we're gonna legalize it. How many other companies do we know about, and do we have to wait and see if we can intervene?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u141	Of course, I can't answer that question, because of what you don't know, you don't know that you don't know. The fact that we are all on top of it, and also in the debates with the House of Representatives, has brought this to light at Chemours. I think it's good that we know this now. Now we can follow this, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u142	I do not have the idea that we can give the Minister ideas for a different solution, so just a follow-up question about its practical implementation. Chemours has now been called upon to apply for a permit. I can imagine that there will be participation and there will be a lot of objections from local residents. It could just be that it's still for a couple of years. Two more questions. What are we gonna do in the meantime? In the meantime, does this mean catching skywater? Because we can't test anymore. That is why the Minister said: we are going to grant this permit, because at least we can measure it. In the meantime, as long as we can't measure, are we going to catch that skywater? Question two is: is there a risk that, if it is before the Council of State for two or three years, we will have finally solved the problem of emissions at Chemours and that the licence was not necessary at all, because we have already solved the problem of emissions at Chemours and so we have actually only gone through a whole legal procedure with each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u143	Mr Van Aalst is now setting out a horror scenario that keeps things going for years. The application for authorisation has been submitted. It is true that views can be expressed on this. That could happen in the next six weeks. I don't expect a very long procedure to follow. But I have to tell you, I don't know exactly what would happen in the meantime. I'll find out for you. In the second term, I would like to come back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u144	I've rarely seen this minister try to speak straight to anything so crooked. 'Cause it's just not right. I asked a very specific question which I did not receive an answer to. I shall now read it out so that it can be answered exactly. The question is from a drinking water company. The simple remark "there is no risk for drinking water" has been made, but that risk may well arise. The question was: if the direct discharge of GenX of 5 kilos per year is granted, then that quantity should be derived from the allowed 20 kilos that may be discharged indirectly onto the water, otherwise the situation will arise that GenX will be able to get back above the norm via many smaller streams. That commitment must be made tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u145	So let me come back to that very precisely in the second term, because Mrs Van Brenk is now asking for a very precise statement from me. Then I would also like to take a closer look at it so that I can answer this question very precisely. I have indicated to you that the drinking water companies themselves say they do not see any problems in this: the ratio of less than 1 nanogram versus 150. But I'm going to put it very precisely for you in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u146	The Minister said that the company was not aware of the risk that emissions could fall into the air and could end up in the surface water via rainwater. Amazing. In America this company has several factories, where this problem has been going on for a long time. Then my question is: is the Minister sure that the company in America wasn't just aware of how this works?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u147	Now Mrs Kröger is actually asking the same question as Mr Laçin and Mr Wassenberg. I don't know what Chemours knew or didn't know. What you're faced with is that it comes as a new fact. Whether they say that when they actually knew it secretly or not, I can't say anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u148	Has the minister been in contact with the American authorities? Or did the ILT have contact with the US authorities to hear how the company operated there and how the authorities there intervened on the company's operations?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u149	I don't know. I should ask, but I can already see from the official side that there is nodding there, so there has been contact with the American authorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u150	Then I would very much like to say that I understand that the Minister cannot do this now from the Minister in the second term or get back in writing what he has been in contact with the US authorities and whether warnings have been issued from America to the Netherlands that this type of emissions could take place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u151	I would like to say that, but I would suggest not to do that with steam and boiling water tonight. I promised you a letter anyway, so let's take it with us. I think that's so careful.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u152	There is another question about the tax deductibility of periodic penalty payments. Is that for the Secretary of State? Then I'd be happy to give the floor to the Secretary of State. Oh, I'm sorry, Mr. Van Aalst has another question at the last minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u153	Yeah, there's another question. I have asked both leaders to make a very clear statement here in the Chamber today that both public health and drinking water quality, i.e. the safety situation of all these people, has not been at all compromised. I would like to make that very clear, to prevent a lot of panic and people think that they are in constant danger and that they should not drink water from the tap anymore. I have asked both rulers to distance themselves from that and to say clearly that people have not been in danger.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u154	The Secretary of State will do so soon for her part. As far as water and drinking water are concerned, I have just indicated that this has not been the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u155	Now we're gonna listen to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I understand Mr Van Aalst's question, and I understand that people are worried when you talk about these substances in your environment. I think that's real, too. That is why it is good that we have these debates together and that people see that we are asking all these questions and that we are working on all the different elements that are needed to ensure that that safe and clean living environment is there that people expect the government to realize. Mr. Chairman. In early 2018, even after questions from the Chamber, an investigation was launched into the product and waste streams of Chemours. I'd like to start with garbage and products. The reason was that a company which carried out work with a semi-fabricate of Chemours, Custom Powders in Helmond, also released GenX. Then we said, "Let's look at that investigation now." This resulted in a report on Chemours waste streams, which was presented to the Chamber in June 2018. In the offer letter, the Minister and I jointly announced a large number of actions, including to support the competent authority, such as the setting of a temporary standard for GenX in surface water to assess discharges, an order for RIVM to derive an intervention value for GenX in soil, the screening of permits from companies where GenX may be released and to impose any further requirements, but also knowledge sharing between Rijk and other governments. So a lot of actions have been launched to ensure that we can make progress on all these points. Mrs Kröger also tabled a motion that I accepted in January 2018. The ILT then carried out the research into the product and waste streams of Chemours. You received that report in 2018. Mrs Kröger asked what happened to that now. The ILT is currently conducting further research into GenX-containing waste, resulting from that earlier study. Several waste streams are being considered that may cause the GenX contamination. It also looked at the carrier of the waste, as a source of contamination through the possible residue left in the tanker. All such information collected by the ILT shall be shared with the relevant environmental services and the regional competent authority. I expect to be able to send you the results of that survey by the summer. As reported, there are also risk limit values.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u157	I have a very brief supplementary question on this point, because I think I remember that in the same debate the Secretary of State promised that she would also want to work on customization and additional requirements, so that requirements could be made for companies that process dry GenX. Is that still the Secretary of State's approach to the investigation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u158	I'd like to take a look at all the tests. I would like to hear from Mr Laçin afterwards whether his question still stands. Customisation is, of course, the starting point for permits, but it is within the general obligation to minimize the substances that are of great concern. The best available techniques see what you can do in this situation, in this application and with these risks of this product. So that's always customization. We're always striving for that minimalization. Companies working with them must make clear to the competent authority every five years what they have done about it and look back at the new best available techniques, because, of course, we want to reduce emissions more and more. In April, the RIVM report containing the risk limit values for substances GenX, PFOA and PFOS was also sent in the ground. On the basis of this report, I am in consultation with the local authorities on a temporary action perspective for dealing with soil and dredging. This month or at the latest at the beginning of June, I will inform you about this. Additional studies on, among other things, the mobility of these substances are ongoing until the beginning of next year. Then, in consultation with the local authorities, I will draw up a final action perspective for these substances. I am also working on a general methodology for dealing with new, unstandardized substances in soil and dredging soil. I would also like to send you this general methodology at the end of this year. Mrs Kröger had a specific question about GenX via waste streams. She asked why there is no obligation to report GenX waste. I hope to reassure Mrs Kröger that it is indeed compulsory to report all knowledge about dangerous substances in a waste stream when they are delivered, so that is an obligation. It is therefore important to ensure that companies have adequate knowledge of their waste and that they report it to the waste processor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u159	The Secretary of State refers to the duty of care in the Environmental Management Act, I think. Only, when is there a quantifiable amount of very worrying substance in your waste product? I read in the ILT report that the company itself has set it at one billion nanograms per litre, while drinking water is at 150 nanograms per litre. Of course, that's a bit absurd, because then the company can think of it: I put it on this and then I don't have to report it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u160	I agree. That is why we now come up with that perspective of action for dealing with land, because that is what you are talking about, among other things. You want to know, of course, in the case of dredging or transport of land, that the standard used is the same. However, a specific permit may be issued for the transport of highly polluted soil that you are going to have cleaned. A specific permit can be issued for this, but you need to know above which standard you need to be extra careful. Ideally, that is the same standard, of course, wherever it occurs. That is precisely that perspective of action for all those flows that we are looking at, including with the various local authorities. I will inform you of this before the end of this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u161	I am very happy to hear that, because I was very shocked by this observation of the ILT, and I think the ILT itself was quite shocked. As the Secretary of State describes it, the scope for action is mainly about soil, but it is also about waste water or the discharge of tankers, because GenX can enter the environment in various forms and in all kinds of ways through waste streams. Is this standardisation or that framework of action on all these different types of waste streams going to be developed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u162	I was even a little pessimistic in my reply, because we hope to inform the Chamber about soil and dredging in which these substances are present before the summer. When it comes to discharges, of course, you have a permit, and it lays down specific requirements. In the letter on the perspective of action, I suggest that we also mention the flows mentioned by Mrs Kröger and how we deal with them. Mr. von Martels referred to Denmark's proposed ban on PFOA and GenX. That is actually the regulation referred to by Mr Wassenberg, the EU regulation 2017/1000. This is the EU measure prohibiting PFOA in products. In fact, I think that Mr Von Martels asked that question in the light of the questions he asked afterwards: what is the relation between the amount of GenX produced or emitted in the production at Chemours, what is in the products, where are those products and forms that are not also a source that we should be careful about? That's a fair question. There are no very precise figures on this, but the starting point is, of course, that emissions to the environment should be avoided as much as possible. So there could be a concern about the distribution through those products. Because the standards for this substance are very low and could lead to exceedance, these sources may also receive attention. For the summer I will also inform the Chamber about the research into PFAS in products. So the question he is asking here is part of the research we will come back to before the summer. This also has a relationship with the question that Mr von Martels asked afterwards: what is my commitment to preventing new substances from being equally dangerous? Of course, we have seen this before in the transition to GenX. If you are using an alternative to a ZZS, you want to make sure that the alternative is no worse than the product you have replaced. In addition, in view of the whole transition to the circular economy, we also want to be sure that the products that bring you into a cycle do not cause pollution or cause problems. That's why I sent the Chamber an extensive letter about Safe by Design last year. That has to do with all these things. I also said that we will not have solved all that tomorrow. But we must take that perspective into account immediately, from now on; we must be very careful and look carefully at the actions we are taking. We must always keep a very sharp eye on long-term sustainability of these substitute substances which are contained in products that could enter a cycle. Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have been asked about monitoring and enforcement, including by Mrs Kröger. She asked how it was possible that no information on the permits would be shared between the environmental service and the ILT. It'll be shared. The ILT also has the role to advise the environmental services at Wabo licensing to large companies, the Wrzo companies. In this context, the ILT will also gain insight into these permits. So that's definitely how it's shared. Mr. Van Aalst asked me to set up a one-stop shop at the Ministry for complex permits. That's a familiar question from him. We've dealt with them here before, so he knows the answer. We have chosen to place the authorisation for those complex companies in the specialist environmental services. We certainly keep our finger on the wrist. There is also knowledge sharing. Mr Wassenberg asked about the periodic penalty payments. The Chamber was informed in 2018 about the fact that the province imposed a penalty payment on the company. This penalty charge has not yet led to the lifting of the offence. In September we received the message that the province has imposed the penalty payment four times; the total amount is EUR 1 million. That's the last information we have right now. Mr Wassenberg, of course, raised the question about the tax deductibility of these periodic penalty payments. We have also discussed this point before in the Chamber. It's true that it is now. It is also true that the cabinet considers this an undesirable situation. As I did say in the context of Tata, the Minister of Finance will consider how this situation can be resolved, if possible with the 2020 Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u163	Mr Van Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u164	It is simply Mr Wassenberg. That "Van" you can leave out. It'll save us some time. I have a question for the Minister. I asked if I could. It's undesirable, but did it happen? I assume the answer to that is also affirmative.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u165	I couldn't say. That depends on the company's tax return. So I don't have any information on that. I can tell you that we find it undesirable and that the cabinet is considering how this situation can be resolved. But whether it happened or not, of course, depends on the company's tax return.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u166	I'm asking because we found out about that at Tata Steel.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u167	I'll come back to the penalty payment. I was indeed under the assumption that it was still a penalty charge, that the periodic penalty payments had not yet been imposed, but I now understand from the State Secretary that the periodic penalty payments have also been imposed. Can the Secretary of State give us a description of what's going on? Because in her answer to parliamentary questions, she indicates that there are currently no legal proceedings. What about the periodic penalty payments? Are they just symbolic?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u168	It is the province that imposed the penalty payment, following the finding that PFOA was present in the direct discharge to the sewage treatment plant. The province must also ensure that this burden is effective under periodic penalty payments. The latest information we have received is that the province which has imposed four times is EUR 1 million in total. This is the last information I have on this situation. It is therefore the province that supervises it as a competent authority.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u169	I ask this question because it was also mentioned once in an AO. Chemours clearly states that it does not agree with the findings of the province. If the province has imposed a penalty payment three times in the meantime, but if it doesn't go any further, it can impose a penalty payment six more times, but then I wonder where we'll go. At what point does the county pick up or give a judge a ruling? Because for the time being, there is no trial, as you indicated in the answers to parliamentary questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u170	That trade-off is up to the county. It must consider whether it considers that, by means of that penalty payment as it stands today, there is still a prospect of lifting the offence. Otherwise, the province also has the power to increase the burden under penalty payment. At some point it can of course become a financial incentive that becomes interesting, or the province can act in other ways. But it is up to the province to make that assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u171	Still, on whether the information from the permits was known to the ILT. The Secretary of State indicates that this information is being provided and that that information is being properly shared. Then I am surprised that the fact that the company indicated in its licence in 2013 that PFOA could arise in the production process for GenX......................................................................................................................................................................................... Then PFOA was discovered, in 2017, in 2018. Everyone went looking for the source of that PFOA and no one noticed that the licence said that it was just a by-product of GenX production.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u172	Mrs Kröger should not confuse two things. Sharing information does not mean that the division of competences will change. The province's environmental department is the competent authority. It must therefore include in the licence what it thinks should be regulated in that permit. That is not directly to the ILT, but information is shared; I understood the question. Mrs Kröger said that there is no information on permits shared by the environmental service. Well, that's true. For example, the ILT has an advisory role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u173	But I'm not talking about licensing this. I am talking about the fact that in 2017, in 2018, we were confronted with PFOA, which appeared everywhere. A lot of research was done back then. The source has been searched everywhere. In retrospective it appears that in 2013 the licence of the province simply stated that PFOA can act as a by-product in the production of GenX. Why was it never noticed by, for example, the ILT?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u174	I cannot answer the question as to why that has not been noted. If this had been noted, there would of course have been a discussion earlier. I can only regret, together with Mrs Kröger, that this has not been noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u175	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u176	Hence my question: should we not have better information systems here? Then it is quite easy and quick to switch to environmental services and permits if we are faced with a very worrying substance in the environment, a substance that is not currently authorised. Then it's possible to find out where that dust came from. Apparently something went wrong, because everyone said, "Hey, where can that dust come from now?" Does the Secretary of State agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u177	The question is perhaps not so much why the ILT didn't know it, as why it didn't come up at the time with the environmental service responsible for this permit and who issued the permit in which it was. That's another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u178	Okay, then we'll ask why it didn't come up there. Is it not part of an information system that we agree with each other that an environmental service should pro-actively supply this information when a worrying substance that is not authorised in discharge nevertheless appears in the environment and we are all concerned about it? How is the Secretary of State going to take care of this as a system responsible?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u179	In any case, I think it is important that we try to get the information on permits as quickly as possible. I am always in conversation with the competent authorities about how to ensure that we actually get knowledge out of the water as soon as possible. You want to keep as close a grip as possible on the whole chain, which wants to find out as soon as possible where certain substances are. We have talked about this with Mrs Kröger before. It's not something that's arranged tomorrow at the push of a button. When you look back, you'll always find something easier than when you don't know what you're looking for. I share with Mrs Kröger the ambition and desire that these things easily roll out of the systems as soon as you ask the question because they have been detected somewhere. In this sense, I am sure that Mrs Kröger's question will be included in the further discussions I am also having with the local authorities on how we jointly keep a good view of where, for example, the ZZS are.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u180	Let me begin with a brief point of order, a comment. Here it is suggested that we never knew about PFOA, but I think almost two years ago I was in an AO waving the license of Chemours and I said: boys, the permit just says that PFOA is released from production. So where this selective indignation comes from, I don't understand very well. As I have just said to the Secretary of State: well, during AO's, you have always worked hard and we often did not agree on the way in which Chemours operated; you were always of that tough enforcement. What does the Secretary of State actually think about us legalizing Chemours' violation? Doesn't that just blow the Secretary of State to the chest? She has always acted in a different way and Chemours actually want to make very clear... I remember once they had to hand over a list that they wouldn't hand over. Then the Secretary of State said: if I have to, I will start procedures; I must and will get that list above the table. So they were very firm words, but now I see her actually very carefully agreeing to legalize illegal discharges.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u181	I simply have nothing to add to what the Minister said about this. We're all on the same page here. You could say that this permit is actually a side effect of the licence that has been legally issued. In this way we can also monitor whether indeed the rinse that takes place is reduced to the same extent as the primary permit that exists. Of course, the question of reduction can be guaranteed. Is there really going to be that minimalization, even by this company? If you see that in 2017 they had an emission of 6,000, that they will go to 150 in 2019 and that they will have to be below 25 by 2020, that is what is really going to provide that strong protection. And the related license for those 5 kilos should therefore be reduced at the same rate. The Minister can see to that in this way. In that respect, we are all on the same page.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u182	I have every confidence that it will happen. We have only seen in recent years that the permit was indeed quite high compared to the emissions that Chemours actually had. I am therefore confident, thanks to our supervision, that they will deliver that reduction by 99%. In the past AO's I have experienced another Secretary of State, but well, we have had a discussion before about the Secretary of State as a Member of Parliament then and the Secretary of State as Secretary of State now. I'm surprised. I also feel that a majority in the Chamber is currently saying that this is not the right solution. So I hope that both the Secretary of State and the Minister will look again at whether this is the right solution and indeed not leading to precedent in all kinds of other companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u183	Mr. Chairman. I am sometimes surprised, too, in the context of these debates. Mrs Van Brenk had another question about the state of play with regard to the identification of additional risks posed by high-risk companies. In this context, I can say to Mrs Van Brenk, but also to others, that we are fully working on this in the 2030 Sustainable Safety Programme. For the summer you will also receive a comprehensive letter from me, in which we will discuss further the progress of this programme. Mr. Chairman. Then there are a number of questions about standards and EFSA policy. Just like the Minister said, I would also like to say that this dossier has taught us a great deal. It also teaches us new things about the behaviour of substances in the environment and how we should also assess their emissions. We have discussed the way in which we assess substances, the data we have on substances and the way in which we authorise them. We have taken many steps, partly because of these debates. I do not want to repeat myself, but it is perhaps also good to see what steps we have taken together. Think of the list of potential ZZS that we have drawn up, because they are substances that are not yet officially recognised as ZZS but on which we want to make everyone aware and also give competent authorities a handle to take additional precautions. Think of the Navigator that shows by type of operation which ZZS emission can logically be expected there. I think that this is also partly an answer to Mrs Kröger's question. If you think at a certain type at some point that it might happen there, then those Navigator competent authorities help to find the things they might need to look for. We have arranged better access to knowledge about substances for competent authorities. There is a commitment with REACH UP countries to make REACH even more effective. I've talked about that before. I mention the quality of the registration files, but also the combination effects, which Mr Wassenberg and others have spoken about. This is something that the Netherlands is actively working on to ensure that this knowledge is developed. We have also found that these are long-term and very complex trajectories. The Netherlands often cannot do that alone. But white people are after it. Because we know that in the living environment there is that combination. There is no isolated situation. I will also say a little more about the commitment to getting GenX qualified as Substance of Very High Concern in the EU.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u184	I see Mr Van Wassenberg. Excuse me, without "Van" but "Wassenberg."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u185	Mr. President, you are learning! Thank you. Still, about that combination effect. The Secretary of State says we already know a lot about these combinations and we're looking at them. In 2017, research was carried out by NVWA. This showed that through a combination of different agricultural poisons the effects on fruit and vegetables were six times as large as might be expected if you looked at the individual substances. It said in an article that a strawberry was six times more toxic due to combination effects. Can there also be looked at, for example by the NVWA or perhaps the RIVM I don't know what the most obvious instance is about the combination effects of GenX and PFOA? We will talk in a moment about the possibility that standards should be stricter than RIVM says. But that combination is also very serious. Can we look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u186	Mr Wassenberg just said that we already know a lot. I think we don't know a lot and I think that's where his question comes from. I don't know if we can watch that, but I'd like to see if that's a question that could be deported from the RIVM. That we want to exercise extra care in combinations and that we want to develop that knowledge is absolutely something I share with Mr Wassenberg. I will see if this particular question can easily be taken into account. Mr. Chairman. Then about the norming of PFOA. On 4 December last year and in January this year, we discussed those new provisional limit values for PFOA of the European Food Safety Agency, EFSA. This is a provisional value, as the Authority is also doing additional studies. Indeed, the provisional EFSA value differs significantly from the value of RIVM that we are currently using. That is why it is so important to ensure that the scientific debate on this matter does not take too long. But it has to be fed. We expect this to be clear by the end of the year. I indicated in December that, if there is a standard, we will translate it into the Dutch situation. But there's really another scientific discussion about it. I have already informed you that we are waiting for the outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u187	This was indeed known. We see that EFSA makes the temporary standard as much more stringent as RIVM. We know that we are getting the results from the research that is now taking place at the end of this year. In the meantime, the discharges will continue, even here. Is it not wise to say that this temporary standard is much more stringent, so let us take it over now? If it turns out that it was too sharp, or not, or good, then we have already taken our measures. That's better than waiting for the final investigation to come. The Authority does not make this standard so much more stringent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u188	There are two aspects. I think you should be careful with them adjusting standards very shortly. On the one hand, we all want action as soon as possible, but if we now know that the expectation is that this will be clear by the end of the year, I would like to set the standard at once, which everyone can focus on. For the application of the standard, even if it sets the standard as a temporary standard, the government must also rely on something. For us RIVM is always the knowledge institution for these kinds of issues. I would now depart drastically from the advice of the knowledge body that we always consult in the Netherlands. I am not prepared to do so, given the short time it takes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u189	Above all, I think we should be careful with our health, with our environment and with our nature. That's why I'm calling you. Not only do I find it remarkable that RIVM does not adopt the stricter standard, RIVM itself calls it remarkable that they do not. They do in almost all cases, but in this case they do not. Then I am going to wonder very much why the RIVM, our knowledge institute, the stricter standards of an agency, which we also know is very much involved, cannot take over and still wait. Then the discharges continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u190	We are talking about an institution that you are constantly criticizing for the lobbies that are taking place there and about which you do not always speak with the greatest confidence. You say, "Trust the RIVM." It might as well be very surprising that you say now: I prefer that standard to RIVM. RIVM and EFSA are in discussion on this matter. That is a thorough scientific discussion. If you set such a standard, it can mean a lot to all kinds of parties in society. The discussion is in progress and it runs until the end of the year. I'd rather set the right standard at once. If the standard is there and also if the EFSA standard is stricter than the standard the RIVM now recommends after the discussion with RIVM, we will translate it into the Dutch situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u191	Is it true that the Netherlands is the only country still subject to the EFSA standard?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u192	No, that's not right. In any case, there are three countries that have done so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u193	Do all three countries have factories where these products are produced?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u194	I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u195	I have a question about the standards. I said it in my contribution, and the Secretary of State confirms it: it's a dispute between scientists. EFSA on one side and RIVM on the other. That's where they're gonna come out, says the Secretary of State. But I still want to know more about it. I took a look at the EFSA section myself. I told you, 284 pages and a literature reference of 30 pages alone, to about 1,000 articles. I didn't read it from A to Z, but I did learn a little bit to read this kind of lyrics, so I went diagonally through it. Then I compared this to what RIVM is offering. That's just one little A4 that says: we don't agree, EFSA standards are 15 times as heavy. Can the Secretary of State give us any more information? I received a very comprehensive package from EFSA. Does the Secretary of State understand that I would be a little easier to follow than the brief comment of the RIVM? It's about disclosure of information. It appears that EFSA is doing better than RIVM.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u196	I understand that EFSA has laid down the basic document. RIVM has written a number of pages with comments. That is, of course, different from a basic report. That's where part of the difference might come from. Furthermore, I understand that they have spent a whole day at EFSA to talk to each other about those pages of RIVM comments. For me, the bottomline is that I have a lot of faith in the research that RIVM is doing. If they see reason to enter into this discussion with EFSA, then we must wait and see. I do not want to set different standards shortly after each other. I'm waiting for the results of that scientific discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u197	I do not express my distrust of RIVM, far from it, but I do express my confidence in EFSA. What I am saying is that I think it is very important that there is openness. I'm not in those EFSA-RIVM talks, so I don't know anything about that. All I do know is that EFSA put a whole document on its website on 13 or 14 December last year. On the other hand, all I hear is a deafening silence. I just want to know a little more about why RIVM disagrees with EFSA. I just want more substantive information. I don't need a report of 200 pages, but I want more than that one A4's "we don't agree with it."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u198	Let me put it this way. In any case, I will convey Mr Wassenberg's interest in the consideration of RIVM to the RIVM. If they have more information about their questions and the background to them and if they can make them public, then perhaps that is possible. The RIVM is an institution of all of us. I think they have chosen to make what the discussion is about accessible on their website. I don't know if there's any more information to make public, but I'm sure I'll leave the question with the RIVM.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u199	A very simple last question: can the Secretary of State indicate about when she thinks RIVM and EFSA are coming out?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u200	Yeah, I expect this to be clear by the end of the year. Mr. Chairman. Then the status of GenX as a very caring substance. That's what Mrs. Van Brenk asked for. In my letter of 9 April, I informed you of the proposal I made to designate GenX for such a European substance or very high group under the REACH regulation. In the AO External Security, we discussed this. The public consultation on that proposal has just been closed and I expect that a decision on this can be taken by ECHA at the end of June. If GenX does indeed become a substance or very high group, then according to the Dutch rules also automatically stricter requirements apply when granting authorisation through the Activity Decision. I will, of course, inform you if ECHA has taken a decision. Mrs Kröger asked me how I would look into the ZZS policy. I started all these actions because I know that it is a broad question in the Chamber to get a better grip on these substances. That is why I have indicated what I am doing about it and what others are doing about it within the framework of the system we have. Mr President, I think I have answered Members' questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u201	I see there are still some questions alive.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u202	I am in doubt as to whether I should have asked the Minister about this, but it is about the degradation products. We can use a substance, such as GenX, that can break down in nature, in water, in other PFAS substances with the same toxicological properties as PFOA. How is this taken into account in the authorisation process? Does the Secretary of State wish to ask RIVM for advice on the risks of degradation products of ZZS substances, especially with PFAS?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u203	I do not know exactly how that is taken up, but I would like to take this question with me in the second term. If it is in water, it may indeed be in the Minister's answer, but we will see if we can come back to this question in the second period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u204	It's late at night and late at week, so maybe I missed it, but I had also asked for closed systems. In the future, I would like to see D66 prefer to see us actually having closed systems, so that no more harmful substances get into the air, water and soil at all. Our question is, how are we going to get there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u205	That is indeed a question that Mrs Van Eijs has asked. In doing so, she referred to horticulture and it just so happens that today, in the context of another part of our portfolio, namely mobility, the Minister and I were allowed to make a strategic work visit to Greenport Venlo. We were in the company of a paprika grower and he did indeed show how such a closed system is handled there. Everything is actually collected and re-used as much as possible. The horticulture sector, I think, has indeed taken a very big step in reducing emissions. I don't know if that's 100% closed. Furthermore, of course, leaves and other products leave the company. That will always be the consideration: for which substances do you really want to get as close as possible to a 100% closed system? After all, not everything that leaves a company is a problem. But I understand the point made by Mrs Van Eijs: she really wants to minimise emissions of environmental pollutants to air, water and soil. I think it is also really clear to the most harmful substances that we have a minimum obligation. So that's where you actually put all that dot on the horizon. The question is to what extent you could or would like to do that for other substances. I cannot give it a clear answer now, but I will certainly think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u206	That's good. But to stick to the analogy with horticulture: I assume that horticulture doesn't just dump its leaves in the ditch. This is neatly processed and used for another product. In this respect, I would like to hear whether the talks with the Dutch chemicals sector will continue on how we can finally get to that closed cycle and that real circular economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u207	Mrs Van Eijs knows my love for the circular economy. There are also very nice examples. I once went to work at a paper mill which somehow managed to revalue 99% of its substances and which also gave its various waste streams and raw materials flows a place. The real emissions to air, water and soil must, of course, also be included in a permit. Then you can use that permit to steer as much as possible to reduce the emissions of those substances. So we do have an instrument for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u208	I may have missed it, but I asked: what lessons have been learned? Do we have a playbook ready, so we know exactly what steps to take next Chemours and how to proceed afterwards?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u209	Each case is different, but of course it is absolutely learned. Throughout the Brzo system, the services are actually in constant contact with each other to learn lessons. I think it is absolutely right for Mrs Van Brenk to take a good look at whether there are lessons to be learned from this case that could also apply in other situations. Mrs Kröger mentioned just now that that substance had been reported in that 2013 permit, but do we know how quickly to find it? That is how I see Mrs Van Brenn's comment. We have to keep learning with each other and let's look at this case carefully to see what elements we want to take out and with which partners you have to quickly round the table to get it under control quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u210	Do I understand correctly that this is a commitment from the Secretary of State and that we will see it at some point?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u211	Mr President, I am also willing to join with the Minister... We have of course also worked very much with the various competent authorities within the Ministry: Rijkswaterstaat, the ILT and the environmental services. I think it is certainly useful to look through that case, to see if there are any lines in it that you can say: it would be very good if you were aware of in other places. At the same time, each case is of course a different one, so you can never prepare a plan for exactly this situation, because hopefully it will not happen again in this way. But it's good to see what we can learn from this and how we take it all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u212	I would like to return to the list of very worrying substances. It was about GenX. I am very happy to hear that we may already get the explanation about GenX from the chemical agency in June. I hope GenX gets on that list very quickly after that. But that also applies to PFOA, as far as I am concerned. That substance is already on that list of very worrying substances. There is a minimum requirement for these very worrying substances. We can also move towards phase-out of these substances. Should I also see the European regulation which Mr Wassenberg referred to and which will come into force next year as a phase-out of PFOA, both in products and in the production process?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u213	I would not be able to answer that question by heart, given the specific reference that is being made, and that regulation. But we'll take that with us in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u214	I am glad that that answer will come later, but I also have a slightly broader question. Can't the Netherlands simply choose to phase out PFOA here, because that substance is on that list? That is what we want in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u215	That's the same question, asked the other way around. So let's take a look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u216	In my view, then, we have come to the end of the first term of office and we can go to the second term of office. You all have a speaking time of 1 minute and 20 seconds. We shall begin with Mr Laçin. If you have a lot of motions, I'd start with that, Mr. Laçin.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u217	I'm gonna get right on it, Mr. Chairman. The SP really thinks the proposed permit is the reverse world. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that GenX and PFOA are being illegally discharged into the Lower Merwede;]] [[noting that the Minister intends to legalise this illegal discharge by means of a licence;]] [[Whereas residents of Sliedrecht, Papendrecht and Dordrecht, among others, are deeply concerned about their health and living environment by discharges from GenX and PFOA;]] [[considers that the violation of rules cannot and should not be rewarded by legalising the offence;]] [[calls on the Minister not to grant additional authorisation to Chemours for the discharge of GenX and PFOA on the Lower Merwede and to address violations such as the illegal discharge of GenX and PFOA,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that EFSA has strengthened the standards for PFOA and PFOS substances;]] [[noting that RIVM has not yet adopted the enhanced standards;]] [[whereas the RIVM itself calls the non-acceptance of standards set by EFSA "remarkable';]] [[Whereas stricter standards and fewer discharges of dangerous substances are good for man and the environment;]] [[calls on the Government to adopt the enhanced standards of EFSA and to call upon RIVM to do so as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin, Mr Wassenberg, Mr Kröger and Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28089-124]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin, Mr Wassenberg and Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28089-125]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u218	The last short motion concerns a point that Mrs Van Eijs also raised in the debate. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that illegal discharges of GenX and PFOA are taking place on the Nieuwe Merwede;]] [[Whereas illegal discharges may pose risks to humans, animals, the environment and nature;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to carry out national investigations into illegal discharges of hazardous substances,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin, Mr Kröger and Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28089-126]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u219	I must leave it at that, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u220	Thank you, Mr. Laçin. I call Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u221	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Party for Animals believes that GenX and PFOA do not belong in the water, do not belong in the air or belong in vegetable gardens. The substances need to be phased out; we need to get rid of them as soon as possible. That's why the next two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the marketing or manufacture of PFOA within the EU from 4 July 2020 is prohibited because of an "unacceptable risk to human health and the environment";]] [[noting that RIVM indicates that harmful effects of GenX, the successor of PFOA, are partly comparable to those of PFOA and that GenX may be carcinogenic;]] [[noting that Rijkswaterstaat intends to grant, in the short term, a Water Act permit to Chemours Dordrecht for the direct discharge of GenX-containing water to Merwede surface water;]] [[considers that this constitutes an unacceptable risk to human health and the environment;]] [[calls on the Government not to grant a discharge authorization for GenX,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the marketing or manufacture of PFOA within the EU from 4 July 2020 is prohibited because of an "unacceptable risk to human health and the environment";]] [[noting that Rijkswaterstaat intends to grant, in the short term, a Water Act permit to Chemours Dordrecht for the direct discharge of PFOA-containing water to Merwede surface water;]] [[considers that this poses an unacceptable risk to human health and the environment;]] [[calls on the Government not to grant a discharge permit for PFOA,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg, Mr Laçin, Mr Kröger and Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28089-127]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg, Mr Laçin, Mr Kröger and Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28089-128]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u222	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u223	Thank you, Mr. Wassenberg. Mrs. Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u224	Mr. Chairman. Three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are concerns about potentially highly worrying substances that may arise as a by-product in the production process of chemicals and/or as a degradation product after discharge;]] [[noting that the potential degradation products of potential ZZS substances are not currently involved in the authorisation of emissions to water, air and soil;]] [[Whereas the case of GenX shows that other PFAS substances with similar properties as the ZZS PFOA can be produced as a degradation product in the water;]] [[calls on the Government to seek advice from RIVM on the desirability of further investigation and monitoring of substances of very high concern which occur unintentionally or unintentionally during or after the production process and subsequently enter our environment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas large complex permits such as Chemours involve different services and authorities;]] [[Whereas good cooperation and exchange of information between these authorities and services is crucial for risk management;]] [[calls on the Government to identify ways to further improve the active sharing of information between public authorities and enforcement services and to respond with caution to findings that may lead to this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the ILT reports that part of the GenX-containing waste leaving the Chemours site is not identified as GenX-containing for waste processors and that waste processors are not always aware of the presence of GenX or other substances of high concern;]] [[calls on the Government to develop frameworks for companies producing ZZS substances on how to report on these substances when offering waste to transporters and processors of waste,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger and Mr Van Eijs. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28089-129]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28089-130]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kröger, Mr Van Brenn, Mr Laçin and Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28089-131]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u225	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u226	Then Mrs. Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u227	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before I read my motion, I would like to quote drinking water company Oasen, which says: "Otherwise, we believe that substances such as GenX do not belong in drinking water sources." That sounds like a truth like a cow. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the authorisation of Chemours for indirect discharge of GenX to the sewers is reduced to a maximum of 20 kilos per year in 2021;]] [[Whereas Rijkswaterstaat intends to authorise direct discharge of GenX to the sewers of up to 5 kilos per year;]] [[Whereas drinking water company Oasen has indicated that with this direct discharge permit, the authorised indirect discharge must be reduced by 5 kg in order not to be at risk of a concentration of GenX above the standard;]] [[Whereas substances such as GenX, in principle, do not belong in drinking water sources;]] [[calls on the Government to reduce the authorized indirect discharge by 5 kilos by direct discharge of 5 kilos by direct discharge of 5 kilos,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28089-132]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u228	Mr. Chairman. Then the ruling of the rulers that Chemours didn't know. Already in February 2018, Chemours America was told in a factory in Fayetteville that PFOA came into the environment through rain and air. So I think they could have easily known.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u229	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. Mr Ziengs and Mr von Martels state that they do not need a second term. I call Mr Van Aalst.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u230	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. No motions on our part. In my view, there are enough motions that can be judged well. The PVV regrets that illegal or unauthorized practices are eventually legalised. It will undoubtedly lead to precedent. I wonder what the next debate on the next company we are going to have here is going to be. The PVV sees it as gloomy. We are afraid that this will lead to lengthy legal procedures, with the result that in the meantime discharges will continue. The idea behind it is that the permit will lead to additional measurement and enforcement, but we are afraid that it will actually lead to a long-term procedure without measurement and enforcement. Mr. Chairman. It will not seem strange to you that we are not happy with this solution. We regret that the Minister is persisting in this solution and is not actually enforcing the illegal discharges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u231	Mrs. Van Eijs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u232	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Two motions from my side. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Chemours is illegally releasing substances such as GenX and PFOA;]] [[noting that the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State intends to resolve this illegal discharge by granting a licence to Chemours;]] [[Considering that it is still unclear what a safe exposure to PFAS substances is and that at the end of this year EFSA will present its conclusions on the standard setting of PFAS which may be 15 times higher than the current RIVM standard for PFAS;]] [[Whereas the granting of the direct discharge permit of PFAS contributes to the possible exceeding of a future standard of PFAS;]] [[calls on the Government to explore all possible legal options not to grant the authorisation, including in the light of possible new EFSA standards,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is in principle undesirable to carry out ex post illegal practices and thus reward bad behaviour;]] [[noting that the additional discharge permit of 5 kilos of GenX and 2 kilos of PFOA on surface water is intended to legalise the flushing of historical pollution on the ground;]] [[Whereas this historical pollution should be reduced in good management and therefore there is no need for a permanent discharge permit;]] [[calls on the Government, when granting the authorisation, to amend the authorisation for an annual decreasing quantity of GenX and PFOA,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Eijs. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28089-133]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Eijs and Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28089-134]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u233	We have 11 motions and a few outstanding questions. I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u234	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There is one question from Mrs Van Brenk, but it is actually included in her motion, so I shall come back to that. The other question was from Mr Van Aalst: what exactly is going to happen until that permit is in force? I've got that straightened out. It will be available for six weeks, so views can be submitted. Then it'll take four weeks to process those views. Then a decision will be made anyway. This will also be finally made public. After those ten weeks, the permit will be in effect. And whether or not a trial of objection is further made, that has no suspensive effect. So that permit is in force immediately anyway. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll get to the motions. The motion in part No. 124 by Mr Laçin. He calls for the permit not to be granted. We have discussed this extensively. He won't be surprised that I'm not going to recommend that motion. On the interim motions, the Secretary of State will respond. I shall then come to the motions on the items Nos. 127 and 128, both by Mr Van Wassenberg... Oh, I say it again, horrible. Apologies to Mr Wassenberg. Maybe it's because my name is Ván Nieuwenhuizen, I don't know. I get a lot for Van Nieuwenhoven and I know what matters. Well, we all have something with a name. Apologies. One motion is about GenX and the other about PFOA. It is requested not to grant the licences. I'd advise against both of them. The motion in part No. Under Mrs Van Brenn's terms, 132 requests the government to reduce the authorized indirect discharge by 5 kilograms when authorizing direct discharge of 5 kilograms of GenX. I can reassure Mrs Van Brenn, because the permit of the province of South Holland already takes account of the 5 kilos of direct discharge, because there is a good coordination between Rijkswaterstaat and the province of South Holland. So if it wasn't, this would have been 25 kilos. So I can advise against this motion, because this has already been taken into account in the concerted action. Then I come to the motion on part No. 133. That's Mrs. Van Eijs'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u235	I understand that this has been agreed between these two organs, but drinking water specifically calls for a reduction to 15. That's not 20, so from 25 to 20, but from 20 to 15. And you're saying it's already been discussed with the other, and that's enough already?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u236	Well, the province of South Holland, which thus grants the main licence, has discussed this with Rijkswaterstaat, and this has been taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u237	But it's not agreed with the drinking water company?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u238	This has also been in contact with the drinking water companies. Then I shall come to the motion on part No. 133 by Mrs Van Eijs. It invites the government to explore all possible legal options not to grant the authorisation. However, I have already promised several Members of your Chamber, including Mrs Van Eijs, to put all the steps that have been taken to achieve this choice in a letter for you. I therefore believe that Mrs Van Eijs will see that this motion is no longer necessary. I therefore ask her to hold this motion until she has received this letter and can assess whether we have properly checked all legal steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u239	Mrs. Van Eijs, would you hold the motion? That is the case, I see, so it will be noted.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u240	At the request of Mrs Van Eijs, I propose her motion (28089, No. 133). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u241	Then the final motion for me, the motion in part no. 134. It invites the Government to urge the licence holder to change the licence to an annual decreasing quantity. I must also advise against that motion, because you cannot catch it exactly linearly from year to year. If Mrs Van Eijs is in any doubt about this, I would like to propose to her the following. I promised you a letter about this trial. I will describe exactly how this will decrease in the coming years and how we will deal with this together with the province of South Holland. Then you can also assess whether you think it is sufficient. The licence shall state that it must be withdrawn annually. I suggest that we explain in the letter exactly how that works. You can then see if you are satisfied with that. You will receive that letter before the general consultation Water.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u242	I would particularly like to give you the intention. It's nice that we monitor and then we see if it goes down, but what we all really want is that I'm also tasting with the Minister of State that it's really going down. We are looking for a way to make sure that this is also in the permit and that it does not depend on what Chemours does, but that at some point we make sure it goes down. I am curious about this explanation and I hope that it will be a little more compelling than I am now interpreting here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u243	Then I think Mrs Van Eijs can be reassured completely, because it is really the intention in the permit that it should take off. The path in which and exactly how we are going to do this, I will explain in the letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u244	Mrs Van Eijs, I had the impression that you agreed to hold this motion, but I did not hear you say that explicitly. Is that right? Would you like to hold the motion? Yes, that's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u245	Then there's the minister. She's done, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u246	Mr. Chairman. As Secretary of State, I will proceed now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u247	I'm sure you'll continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u248	The motion in part No. 125 concerns the EFSA standard. We exchanged this in the debate. I do not want to set a different standard twice in a row, so I will wait for the outcome of the discussion between RIVM and EFSA this autumn. I advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 126 by Mr Laçin, Mrs Kröger and Mr Wassenberg. This is already the task of maintaining competent authorities. That's already happening, so no new separate investigation. That's why I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u249	If this task has already been undertaken, I wonder where we can find out which investigations have been carried out into possible illegal discharges from industry. I haven't seen that anywhere, I have to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u250	I am not saying that the motion as it has been formulated is already being implemented, but that it is already the task of maintaining competent authorities to investigate possible illegal discharges. It's part of the task of the competent authority to keep an eye on that. That's different from the fact that there's a national investigation that's already been done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u251	In my view, then, the argument remains that I cannot see this anywhere and that in this case we have also been able to see that Chemours has reported this and that the enforcement service has not tracked it down. Hence this request for an active national or separate investigation, which does not make me much interested in finding out, because I would very much like to know whether this is happening elsewhere in the country. We need to actively look for that. We need to be informed about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u252	But then it's a pin-in-a-hawk motion: do you want to look everywhere for possible illegal discharges? No, it is the responsibility of the competent authority to maintain the licences that companies have. You also have, for example, the drinking water companies, which also monitor on substances and which can also alert when they encounter something. Then you can focus on looking for what's going on. But you can't always do an investigation on everything, and then also nationwide. I therefore advise against the motion. Mr. Chairman. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 129, which asks the Government to seek advice from RIVM on the desirability of further investigation of ZZS arising unintentionally in or after a production process. When it comes to discharges and licensing, this is already standard practice. Competent authorities must assess this and may seek advice from RIVM. That's what they do when they need to. That is their role and responsibility. The ZZS navigator to which I have already referred also helps the competent authority to determine what kind of substances you need to look at which processes. That goes for the ZZS. By the way, this was referred to by Mrs Kröger in 2013, not yet ZZS, so that was not mentioned as such at the time. When I look at the literal text of the motion, I should actually say that we are already doing this. But then I thought Mrs Kröger would ask the follow-up question: if this is true for ZZS, what then for potential ZZS? Then I thought, "Good question." At least I'll check it out. I would therefore ask the authors to hold this motion. I will then look into whether potential ZZS are already covered or whether there is otherwise reason to see if we need to extend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u253	Yeah, I'd love to find out. What we understand is that a lot of research has been done in America on how GenX falls apart in a whole range of different PFAS. I have never seen that research in the Netherlands, in the entire discussion about GenX, not in the permit and not in the investigation. We only detect those substances we're looking for. What you see in America is that there are all kinds of PFAS types with the same properties in the water. That's the concern that this motion is trying to address.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u254	Exactly. That is not in the request, but in the recital you are referring explicitly to that degradation product. We are therefore specifically taking this with us. I'll come back to it in a letter. I would ask you to hold this motion and I will look into how potential ZZS are already being taken. Perhaps you'd like to look at degradation agents, possibly decomposition, in the same way. I'll see how that goes in the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u255	You're holding the motion, Ms. Kröger? I would like to hear from the Secretary of State if, in the event of the arrest again being suspended, she does indeed advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u256	Yes, Mr. Chairman, because then I have to say that we already do. But I'm gonna find out if there's an edge that's not covered by what we're already doing. That is the commitment I made to Mrs Kröger.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u257	Yeah, I'm happy with that commitment. The only thing the Secretary of State says is that it's already happening for ZZS. Can the Secretary of State describe in the same letter how that happens? Because in the licensing of PFOA, I didn't see that research either. I also spoke to toxicologists who didn't recognize it either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u258	At the request of Mrs Kröger, I propose her motion (28089, No. 129). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u259	It seems very important to me to clarify this, because if there is a loophole in the system somewhere, then we must find out quickly. I propose that I describe in a subsequent letter how this is done and how we deal with the degradation products that Mrs Kröger asked for. We will also include the potential ZZS. Mr. Chairman. Then Mrs Kröger also asked about the active sharing of information between licence providers. That too is something we always do and what is a lasting effort. I would actually like to suggest to Mrs Kröger that I include this in the letter. I will, for example, explain the inspection view. I can also imagine that some of the instruments that exist are not all shared equally in their entirety with the Chamber. I suggest I take that in that letter, too. I have also made a commitment, also on behalf of the Minister, that we will see how we can properly share the lessons learned from this case. We'll take that with us. I should therefore like to ask Mrs Kröger for the motion on item No. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). Because this is actually our continuous effort..................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u260	I find it difficult to hold this motion. Perhaps the crux for me is that the Secretary of State is now saying something more explicit than earlier in the debate that the lessons learned from the case, Chemours, PFOA and GenX are being evaluated and that is what that means for our system. After all, the question is whether something has gone wrong in the sharing of information. However, implicitly, the Secretary of State states here that the necessary improvements can be made to the information sharing and that the lessons learned are therefore included.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u261	I do not fully agree with Mrs Kröger's interpretation, because it anticipates what we are going to map, but we often have that discussion. I'll map out what's going on. Then we will map out what the lessons are learned from this case. And then we will see if there has been a coincidence here that was unfortunately so or that there are indeed points in the system that need to be improved. If that's the case, then we will.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u262	You're holding the motion, Ms. Kröger?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u263	I'll think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u264	You're still thinking about it. Good. Then we'll go to the Kröger c.s. motion. in piece No. 131.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u265	The Minister and I also went over the list together, but unfortunately we did not come to very hopeful assessments. I should also advise against this motion, because the legal obligation already exists within the framework of the LAP. There is even an additional hand-out, and then it is about the development framework for reporting ZZS waste streams. I shall, if necessary, provide additional information for environmental services to ensure consistent implementation of the obligation on companies under their supervision. You could say that we can be happy that we've already arranged this with each other in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u266	I don't understand any of this. We have just exchanged extensively in the debate that the company could decide for itself and could say "we take 0.1 grams or a billion nanograms per litre" as an indicator if it had to report something as a ZZS when offering to a waste processor. This motion calls for clear frameworks for companies that produce ZZS substances, about when you have to report it when you offer it. And then the Secretary of State says it's already settled in LAP3, but in LAP3, that's just not settled. That's exactly what the ILT states in her report.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u267	Yeah, but that's different. Mrs Kröger talks about a standard in her explanatory statement, while the motion says: 'calls on the government to develop frameworks for companies producing ZZS substances on how to report on these substances'. That framework is there, only the question is whether there is still a concern about the standard that Mrs Kröger is talking about. She says she has that concern. I have also indicated in what way I am working to map that standard for all kinds of different flows, so I do not know what this motion adds.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u268	The Secretary of State has indicated that it is in the process of developing that standard for a specific group, for PFOA and GenX. This speaks of ZZS substances. The problem is that, as the ILT pointed out, there are no frameworks in LAP3, no standards are given when a company has to indicate that there is a ZZS substance in a waste stream.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u269	That's what Mrs Kröger says now. I can't tell by heart to what extent that hole is still there. Then I say to Mrs Kröger that I will indeed look into it. Then I am also prepared to respond in writing to this motion. If that is indeed a gap that we have not yet addressed, then I can give a different judgment on the motion than I am now giving. But then she will have to hold the motion until I have made that written reply to that motion. If I think it is already there, and if we will describe it in a wider letter, then I will have a moment to discuss it with Mrs Kröger, but I cannot judge it that way, so I will give a written response to this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u270	That's fine. Then I'll keep these on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u271	At the request of Mrs Kröger, I propose her motion (28089, No. 131). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u272	Then Mr Laçin had another question about this EU regulation. The regulation cited by Mr Wassenberg only concerns products containing PFOA. By the way, this is still used very little. Many companies in the Netherlands have switched to other fluorines. With that we have come a bit of the rain in the drip, we have noticed with each other, so we have to always see if an alternative is better than the original. The ban requested by Mr Laçin therefore concerns products. That is important, because it also allows you to regulate imports from China, for example. Mr President, those were the questions that had been asked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u273	That brings us to the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-16-tweedekamer-11.u274	The motions will be put to the vote next Tuesday, as long as they are not arrested. Thank you all for being here.
