ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u1	The next item is the joint discussion of the legislative proposals 33996, Amendment of the Gaming Act, the Gaming Tax Act and some other laws relating to the organisation of distance gambling, and 34471, Amendment of the Gaming Act in connection with the modernisation of the Gaming Casino regime. Can I ask Members not to stand up and give the directors all separate hands? I would like to welcome the Minister for Legal Protection and the Secretary of State for Finance to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u2	I give the floor to Mr Dercksen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u3	Mr President, thank you. Welcome to the gentlemen of the government. Two bill proposals today, modernising game casino regime and the Remote Gambling Act, gambling on the Internet. Let me begin with that last proposal. The law is outdated and that is happening in this digital age very quickly. Good thing there's a proposal. It must protect the consumer or at least better protect it. It must prevent gambling addiction, at least it is trying to make a serious effort to do so. And it must prevent crime, such as fraud and money laundering, or at least as much as possible. As you can already hear, the PVV Group does not see this as the holy grail that solves all the problems associated with online gambling, but it is a significant step forward. Each marketing authorisation holder shall appoint a representative who is in contact with an addiction expert. There must be a stricter separation between games and games of chance. My first question to the Minister is: to what extent can this law also play a role in the problem of addiction in games? Anyone with young people in their environment will probably have the same image as me, namely that this has a big impact on life, not necessarily always bad, but still a reason for concern. There has been research into the overlap between games and games of chance. The Gaming Authority acts at loot boxes, gambling elements in those games. What is the current state of overlap between these games and games of chance, especially in the case of the lower regulation announced by the Minister? What measures are being taken to further prevent this overlap? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Those who do not comply with the rules, licence holders and, above all, illegal providers, can best be caught in the wallet as far as the PVV Group is concerned. This law offers the opportunity to deal with them. The question is therefore: has there already been proactive contact with the iDEALS and the PayPals of this world, so that this legislation can be enforced through them? I'd like a comment on that, too. With this law, the regular legal offer will gain a higher market share, according to experience in other countries. Safer and fairer games of chance, you have to specify your bsn number, create a player profile, the limit increase only starts after a week, there is a possibility of involuntary exclusion, people from your environment can recommend someone for exclusion: all of them are not waterproof, because one can start playing with multiple providers. But it's a step forward. And yet there remains tension between profit maximization and addiction prevention. There's gonna be an addiction prevention fund. Fine. There will be personalized pop-ups that will warn of the danger of addiction. Despite this, providers have to implement addiction prevention policies and so there remains tension between profit and good behavior. Monitoring remains therefore essential. Perhaps the Minister could comment on the intensity of the proposed supervision. This summer, De Telegraaf reported about hundreds of Dutch people who started working in Malta at the many online casinos that are active there, where the working conditions are extremely dubious and many cannot resist the temptations of drink and drugs, also because of the immense workload. In fact, the companies there accept the use of drink and drugs even to a greater or lesser extent in the workplace. That article gives rise to the suggestion that these companies will soon become legal. It would be a nice thing for me and my group if the Minister could guarantee that such companies will never be licensed. In other words, to what extent can the Gaming Authority ensure that companies such as these can be excluded from the Dutch market in Malta? Will these companies also pay income tax in the Netherlands on profits realised in the Netherlands? How else will the Minister explain the sentence in the coalition agreement which states that the supplier must be represented in any way in the Netherlands? Next to the Kooiman amendment, which provides that personal data processed in the context of participation in a game of chance other than that referred to in this law may not be used in recruitment and advertising activities. The aim of the amendment is to prevent players from established providers from being lured into the much more addictive remote gambling. In itself fine, but can the Minister also explain how this will work for existing, established, legal licence holders? Should they not use their legally collected, existing data file for existing, non-changing games of chance? I don't think that's the idea. Let me get this straight. As a result, the Build Master's motion. It seems that the Minister is not going to fully implement this motion. The motion provides that illegal providers may not be eligible for a licence. Referring to my comment on the situation in Malta, a fine motion, but I would like to ask the Minister who is going to implement it in full. If he is not going to do so and these illegal providers are still licensed, they can use their illegally collected personal data. How does the Minister intend to prevent this and how does he intend to prevent legal providers from being put at a disadvantage? I do not think that is the intention either. To sum up, we are mostly positive about this bill, but we do attach importance to the proper answers to the questions I have put. Then the modernisation of the game casino regime. The PVV Group is more critical of this. Holland Casino clearly provides for a need, let that be clear. It's fine that you can bet responsibly. There's nothing wrong with that. Today, the question is how to organise this and whether we should organise it in a different way. The cabinet calls it "modernize." Bringing Holland Casino to the market is surrounded by many additional regulations. The law provides for addiction policy, to be implemented by the licence holders. There will be a central register of very good players that can be included in order to be denied access. Fine. Intervention, information policy, duty of care, the Gaming Authority will monitor, a sharper access control, restrictions on sponsorship. It's all good. The Bibob Act is being applied. Vogs are required. Existing policy on camera surveillance with a seven-day retention period is prescribed and I have undoubtedly missed a number of things. Those are steps that we can follow very well. It is also good that there will be an evaluation. Much is defined in lower regulation. That makes this law more effective. It is also good that these regulations will be submitted to the First and Second Chambers in consultation and among others the Gaming Authority. Is that lower regulation already available? If I have read it correctly, it would be submitted to the House of Representatives in the course of last year. Under these rules, savings programmes and bonuses will be allowed, but not personalised. But still, here too: it has to increase sales. Advertising may, but it may not in turn encourage improper use. Slowly but surely, we are going on slippery ice. There is a great natural tension between profit maximization by the licence holder and consumer and player protection. This tension also affects the working conditions of the staff. Mind you, that's a tension that an operating government doesn't have or shouldn't have, or which is at least less explicit. And if there is, immediate intervention is easier. Mr. Chairman. The law is called Act Modernisation Play Casino regime and the question is now: what is the definition of "modernisation"? Is exploiting a game casino a state matter? My natural reaction would be "well no," but we have this situation. And is bringing Holland Casino to market this way a modernisation? Is it a modernisation if you have to build up so much regulation and check it again? If Holland Casino remained in state hands, it could be much more direct and effective, and ultimately cheaper. So is this modernisation an improvement? That's the question. We are talking about a serious problem. Game addiction, money laundering, crime are all lurking. I dare to question this modernisation. Can fraud and crime in the casino be combated better if you leave the licence to the market? How can you better protect public interests, social burdens such as addiction care, if the game casino regime is in private hands? As far as I am concerned, the Minister must focus on this in the first place. We also need an explanation of how the fight against fraud and money laundering relates to the sale of Holland Casino. There will be a lot of regulation, there will be a lot of organisation, but my question is specifically: why should we be better able to fight fraud and crime when selling Holland Casino? I refer to the abuses at ING, and I would point out that we are not in a position to fight money laundering there either. We can't even stop it at a big bank. There the supervision turned out to be not very successful. To say the least! Is the consumer who occasionally comes to gamble better off if the government wouldn't sell Holland Casino? That's the question. Holland Casino has an excellent name and excellent record in addiction prevention policies. Aren't we gonna throw this baby away with the bathwater? Are public interests better protected if we already spend 20 to 40 million on gambling addiction care? Mr. Chairman. We are going from a monopoly to an oligopoly with this bill, so what exactly are we talking about in the market? Of the fourteen Holland Casinos, ten will be held by one party. Then another party can buy four licences and then there are two separate permits left. All licences have a concession period of 15 years. In fact, the Minister already creates an uneven playing field a priori. What if one of those licence holders dies after the concession period or in the concession period? Is it possible to exclude that we will eventually return to a monopoly, but in the hands of a private party? In any case, that is an unhealthy and undesirable situation for us. How do we rule out the fact that these few licence holders are going to make agreements with each other, and I believe that the most likely case is going to be that there is no competition at all? If there is a minimum yield, I ask the Minister. When a company goes to the stock market, there are always very expensive offices, law firms, that sort of figure out what that's gonna do for you. Has that been done in this case, too? That is quite difficult to predict, because a scenario such as we are dealing with today has not yet occurred abroad. Does the Minister have a visual on those new license holders? Is this about existing Dutch parties? Probably not, 'cause they're too small. This is probably mainly about foreign parties, which means that profits flow abroad, but we, as a society, are left with social costs. Is a construction allowed or is it modernisation if all profits are skimmed and it moves to Malta or Cyprus via a corporate Christmas tree? Does that help us as taxpayers? It's EU legislation, so I guess that's okay, so we're probably not gonna get any better. Mr. Chairman. Finally. The Ministry is also employer of some 3,000 employees of Holland Casino who make sure that Holland Casino currently makes tens of millions of profits annually. Any decent employer who sells his company should take into account the interests of his employees, because those employees make the bulk of the company, are the capital of the company, especially in this case. Now, the conditions of employment for seated staff appear to be more or less secured in the shorter term, but not after the concession period. By natural course, people will disappear. In the poker world, for example, you can see that jobs are taken by Poland. Is that what we want? Well, we don't. But does the Minister want that? Will working conditions be improved for staff if the operator wants to maximise its profits, which means that players will have to lose more money by definition? Let's say there's going to be a crisis, the conversions are falling, and the casino is losing. How necessary does the new owner consider it to be to prevent addiction cases? I'd like a comment on that, too. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the Vos amendment, which provides for the Gaming Authority to lay down rules on working conditions and on the connection of staff to the casino. Although the Minister has indicated that this European law is somewhat complicated, this amendment was adopted. Perhaps the Minister will be able to say something about that. Mr. Chairman. We would like to hear that the Minister is more comfortable with the employment of the employees of Holland Casino. Protect those rights! After all, he is an employer of about 3,000 employees and their families. I think that is a good reason to pay attention to this. So far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u4	Thank you, Mr. Dercksen. I give the floor to Mrs Andriessen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u5	Mr. Chairman. The proposed legislative changes will have a major impact on many citizens and organisations. The House of Representatives has therefore already treated them carefully and the rulers have already been able to explain a lot in the preliminary process with this Chamber. The most discussed change is that foreign providers, who provide online gambling opportunities and now operate illegally, come under the control of the Gaming Authority via a licensing system. Unfortunately, the agreement in the government agreement that a legalised provider should have a branch in the Netherlands cannot continue because of a breach of European rules. The solution is now sought in the obligation of the provider to appoint a representative in our country, but whether that will work is still a matter of concern. The legalization of online gambling should be beneficial for the players. Because there is now no regulation on games of chance on the Internet, the participants are not protected. They can't start much if there's an Internet bug or if there's not a fair payout. It is expected that the legalisation will improve the visibility of addiction opportunities among players. It is estimated that there are about 80,000 gambling addicts in our country. Gambling addiction has nasty consequences. The gambling-addicted treasurer of an animal welfare organization recently plundered his association's greenhouse. The smart 20-year-old son of a friend of mine has become a nightmare for his parents who have to pay the gambling debts. The second change presented to us concerns the lifting of the state monopoly at Holland Casino. This organisation is being taken apart and the stakes are that more providers of land-based casinos can join. There is no certainty yet or it will succeed in finding reliable buyers who will surround their players with the same addiction care as the current organization is known for. The desired changes will provide a lot of extra work for the Gaming Authority. The guess is he'll be able to handle it all. Mr. Chairman. In order to properly assess the chances of success of the legislative changes, my group has a number of preliminary questions. The Minister has indicated that the entry into force of the law on remote gambling will be a priority over the bill that Holland Casino will privatise. In doing so, he wants the Gaming Authority to focus first on the reinforced enforcement tools for online gambling. But in the execution, it's gonna have to wring, isn't it? The Act on Online Gaming also regulates matters for gaming casinos and gaming machines holders, such as the refusal of access for minors and gambling addicts, the obligation to record problematic game behaviour and the maintenance of the problem player for the purpose of addiction. It does not seem logical to introduce these measures into the current organisation, prior to the privatisation of Holland Casino. How are we supposed to imagine entry into force?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u6	Can Mrs Andriessen, through the President, give us some examples in which it would really be difficult to do so? I have read the online gambling Act in such a way that the measures mentioned in it should be very welcome for both the Ksa and Holland Casino.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u7	Our surprise is that all these measures are already being taken at Holland Casino. So it's a little weird to include that again in the Law of Gambling at a distance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u8	But if, for example, you take the central register we're about to get, isn't that a welcome addition?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u9	But Holland Casino already has.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u10	Mr. Postema, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u11	For the last time, Mr. Chairman. Holland Casino does not have a central register, of course, but its own register.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u12	Yeah, but then they should do that again with the Gambling Law. That really is a technical question, of which we are wondering the logic. Mr. Chairman. In the meantime, there has been a consultation on the Decision implementing online gambling over the internet. We assume the reactions have been processed. My group would like to be given an overview of the main concerns that emerged from the consultation. Can the Minister remove those concerns and, if so, what is needed? As has been said, my group also has concerns about representation in the Netherlands. Can the Minister indicate how many licence holders a representative may represent in the Netherlands? The legislative proposal assumes that licence holders themselves carry out a risk analysis of the impact on consumers of their recruitment and advertising activities. How realistic is that? Advertisement means fighting each other. Of this hectic playing field, the addiction-sensitive player will soon be the victim. Is it not therefore better to leave the risk analysis on the impact of recruitment and advertising activities to an external body? The legislative proposal also provides for the possibility for a marketing authorisation holder to outsource work. That could be good, but it could be wrong. Can the Minister indicate what work to be carried out is envisaged? Mr. Chairman. In betting and gambling, people want to know if there's a fair chance to win. This applies not only to the players, but also to the providers. Does these legislative changes make their playing field more equal? That doesn't always look like it. In the spirit of equality, the tax on national sports betting is aligned with online gambling. Where the players themselves were first taxed with 5%, the organizer now has to pay 29% tax. In practice, this creates inequality. That especially hurts when it comes to trotting and racing. Those games depend on the income from betting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u13	Is it true that during this year's discussion of the Tax Plan, I did not hear this remark on the equalization of taxes from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u14	I can assure Mr. Postema that it is true that he made that remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u15	Mr. Postema, that wasn't your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u16	I have heard Mrs Andriessen say that that remark has been made, but I have missed it for a moment. Because then you apparently made it an important point during the D66 Group's Tax Plan that no longer the players but only the providers will pay tax. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u17	That is the point you made. I take it D66 didn't protest that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u18	There's been a slight misunderstanding about the questioning. I believe that Mr Postema is asking you for something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u19	Shall I repeat it again? I hear that Mrs Andriessen is making it a point that, with the harmonization of the tax regime, the players no longer pay online, but only the providers. Isn't that exactly a point that could have been made during the treatment of the Tax Plan? That has been mentioned by my group. My first question was: did you mention this when dealing with the Tax Plan? That was the moment when you could do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u20	I note that Mr. Postema made that remark about the gambling tax. I don't know if it was necessary for D66 to say anything about that. But should we focus on trotting and racing again, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u21	I have the feeling that Mr Postema would like an answer to his question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u22	It was not so much yours truly who participated in the debate as my colleague, Mr Sent. It is essential for us, because the moment for the D66 Group to make this a point that cuts wood was during the treatment of the Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u23	Okay, that could be, yeah. Back to my previous sentence. Because of the new tax, the equestrian sport threatens to disappear. That can't be the point? Other sports betting providers receive a fee through the VWS Ministry, but the trotting and racing has so far been excluded. My group therefore calls on the Secretary of State to ensure that trotting and racing are also eligible for compensation. Dan Holland Casino. The buyer receives ten of the fourteen existing locations. The remaining four will be auctioned separately and two new locations will be offered.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u24	I was just thinking about Mr Andriessen's comment on trotting and racing which is about to disappear, which cannot be the intention. What is the assumption based on that this cannot be based on the intention? And my supplementary question: if there are things that are viewed socially by a number of people as undesirable and that are financed by gambling revenues, is that a reason to maintain online gambling or to compensate the sector for anything?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u25	I meant to say that a bill that is going to deal with online gambling should not indirectly make a sport disappear. I think it is up to the Senate to ensure that such matters are carried out in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u26	But aren't we very often passing laws here that also have effects beyond the direct intentions of that law? At D66 I would argue that we should not only think about sport, but also about horses.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u27	I think the horses really like to drove and run. I'm gonna go back, 'cause I was working on Holland Casino. The remaining four will be auctioned separately and two new locations will be offered. The complaint is that this method of working in the Netherlands, such as entrepreneurs in slot rooms, does not offer a chance in the sales process. Can't the minister at the block of four casinos keep the possibility open for the sale of smaller lots? There's something else going on at the land casinos. They are currently losing market to online casinos and will therefore also apply for an Internet license. Then an uneven playing field is created immediately. The existing illegal providers may use their database after legalization, but a land casino has not yet been able to build player files in the computer. Which brings the illegal players to an unfair head start. Can the Minister promise that Holland Casino will have time to build its own player base before the license of previously illegal providers enters into force? A similar type of problem occurs with the Toto for sports betting It seems that via a whim in the law adjustment the Toto is no longer allowed to use its own data file, which can mean the end of the Toto. That may not be a bad thing for the PvdD, but I would like to note it. Can the Minister promise that the Toto will continue to use his own database? New licence holders will also focus on sports betting online. Sports dome NOC*NSF has warned against this. For example, sports organisations will have to arm themselves against match fixing. What guarantees can the Minister give that the sporting world will not be unduly affected by commercial betting providers? At games of chance are winners and losers. Who is expected to be the winners and who is the losers with these legislative proposals? The Gaming Authority is expected to win, because it will finally be better to monitor and issue serious sanctions. The online gambling addict also wins, because it is much better controlled, although he or she will not always be satisfied with it. The regular player wins, because he gets a better legal position vis-à-vis the providers. The IRS will win too, because I'm sure there'll be a lot more revenue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u28	Mrs Andriessen says that legalisation is also in the interests of enforcement, because it would be better to maintain and sanction it. Then why can't we do that right now? At the moment, illegal gambling can be countered just as well by means of enforcement and sanctions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u29	We have been briefed on this by the Gaming Authority. From that point of view, it is said that there are so many illegal providers that only occasionally someone can be caught. If a system is now in place, where I am guessing that 40 reliable online providers can be licensed under very strict conditions, and if account is taken, among other things, of addiction care, the Gaming Authority can concentrate more easily on those who continue to operate illegally. It is expected that this will happen as well. It is really about offering the chance to the Gaming Authority to do better than it can do now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u30	Then an important objective of legalisation is to reduce the number of illegal players.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u31	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u32	The question is then whether you need legalization, or whether you can also invest in more capacity to maintain. Doesn't legalization itself also have the complicating factor that you need to enforce on illegal providers, but also have to maintain whether the licence holders comply with the conditions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u33	I assume that the Gaming Authority knows who is being granted a permit, but make no mistake: the advantage of granting a permit is that you can attach all kinds of conditions to it. You can't do that to illegal providers. Then you can't say: you need to ensure a representation, you need to make sure that the bank details are known, you need to make sure that addiction care is linked to it. It's about the complex around it, which means there's more concern for the players than is currently the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u34	I understand that, but that's another argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u35	Mrs. Strik, finally. And to Mrs Andriessen I would like to say that I would like to go through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u36	Very good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u37	Finally. That's another argument. I was concerned that Mrs Andriessen said that we would be better able to maintain it. My point is that this can be done now even if you make other choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u38	I am opposed to this, given the work of the Gaming Authority, which I am somewhat familiar with. I know this is a way to get the case under control.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u39	I would like to refer to Mr Strik's very good questions. Regulating, channeling, precisely to counter illegal supply, better enforcement, which looks like two drops of water to the method chosen in relation to the prostitution sector. Is that such a catchy example now? Did it work there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u40	The question is, did I work in prostitution?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u41	No! Mrs Andriessen, direct: I would not dare. No way! I said that that reasoning is like two drops of water to the reasoning we have chosen with regard to the prostitution sector. Do you find that example contagious?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u42	I should say now that I know all about this, but unfortunately that is not the case. I know, however, that the Gaming Authority is an organization which we must take seriously and which has been waiting for a number of years for us to get to work better than it is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u43	Finally, Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u44	I would like to encourage Mrs Andriessen to look into this sector as well. Then she will see that the reasoning of channeling and regulating, with the idea of reducing the illegal supply, has not worked by any means.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u45	Mrs Andriessen began her speech very nicely by indicating the risks of releasing this gambling market. Has Mrs Andriessen thought about whether we should come up with better regulation or better controls for the Gambling Authority without releasing the entire online gambling? Then one is able to fight the illegal offer better.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u46	As I understand this bill, the Gaming Authority now has no handles. With this change of law, the Gaming Authority will get a handle on it. Our group believes that this is important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u47	That's exactly my question. Those handles that the Gaming Authority receives are not inextricably linked to the fact that the online market needs to be opened up. In other words, all we could have done was give these handles and keep the market closed so that the illegal supply can be combated better. Why doesn't the D66 group find that interesting?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u48	I understand that Mrs Gerkens assumes that there are hundreds of online gambling providers now, but on the basis of our information, my group's assessment is that the Gaming Authority is looking very closely at who gets a permit. That's gonna be like 40, 50. That number has been mentioned. That is actually already a limited market. If not everyone gets a permit, you're already dealing with a limited market.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u49	That wasn't my question. Again, the D66 group could have also chosen to give the Gaming Authority more leverage to combat all the online offerings, because the risks of online gambling are too great.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u50	The answer to this is that our group believes that this change of law will give a great deal of guidance to the Gaming Authority and that it is very important to get to work on it now. I will repeat the last sentence I mentioned for the Secretary of State. The IRS wins, because I'm sure there's gonna be a lot more revenue. But our group urgently calls for attention to be paid to an eye-catching group of potential losers: the beneficiaries of the charity lotteries. There is a chance that the legalisation of online gambling will reduce the number of people betting on lotteries. The Minister therefore arranges for the lotteries to reduce the payment obligation to a charity from 50% to 40%. In doing so, he hopes to compensate the lotteries for less revenue. But that's not good news for the charities. The contribution of lotteries in the Netherlands to sport and charities amounts to hundreds of millions. For organisations in the cultural sector, refugee aid, development aid, health care, you name it, the charity lotteries are an important source of income. There is so much mercy to be expected from new online gambling providers. The Minister demonstrates that through the introduction of Article 31f, which provides for the possibility of imposing on holders of an online licence a payment obligation to charities under ministerial rules. We would like to know whether the Minister can predict what real good intentions could be deducted from the merit of the online providers. And how does he plan to compensate for the loss of income for the charities? Mr. Chairman. The contributions to charity and sport will be closely monitored from the moment of entry into force, the Minister promises us. He also referred to the possibility that the payments of commercial suppliers would be involved in the review of the law three years after entry into force. Three years is a long time. My group prefers an initial evaluation of lotteries' payment results after a year. Can the Minister undertake such an earlier evaluation? Mr. Chairman. Players and providers in the gambling and lottery world are calling for quick decision-making on remote gambling. The employees of Holland Casino are slowly wanting to know what they are up to. The Gaming Authority finds it an embarrassment that she still can't get to work in full. According to our group, illegality has lasted long enough. We are therefore counting on a clear and adequate answer to our questions, so that the many expectations can be met. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u51	Thank you, Mrs Andriessen. I give the floor to Mrs Bikker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The bird-peak game, kitten games: they fall under the regime of the Gambling Law. In the form of bingo, the kite games still occur in our country, but I still consider the bird-peak game to be an extinct game, unless the minister in dartsport finds a worthy successor. That would be a new earning model for the state treasury, I'll give it to the Secretary of State. But I don't have the impression that the Gambling Act is focusing on that. Words like "online," "internet," and "poker," to name but a few, you will not find. When reading the law, one thing becomes very clear: this is the language of 1964. One couldn't even have foreseen that there would be the Internet, or a mobile phone, or the possibility to take a guess at any time and anywhere. The law has been modernised here and there, but the questions and challenges of this time are not sufficiently reflected. In fact, the Members of Parliament had that foresight in the course of the discussion in 1964. For example, I quote Piet Jongeling, a GPV-er and for me once very important because of Snuf de Hond, but that is a side issue. He said: I see that this ruler or his successor will often be forced to come back here with the message 'we cannot compete anymore, we must make things more attractive'. Or Senator Beerekamp of the CHU: It does indeed appear, as if once Lady Fortuna had the Dutch parliament say A, the following letters of the alphabet are in principle difficult to stop. They have seen that well and it is the reason why, after a long history of law, we are currently speaking in the Senate about regulating online gambling. That's a lucrative illegal business right now. There is plenty of online gambling worldwide. Foreign sports competitions are full of advertising. It's the world of big money that forces itself. However, that online gambling has several additional shadow sides. It's very easy to take a chance. It's anonymous, can be fast and happens without social control. We all know very well that there is a large group of people for whom such a gamble is no longer an innocent pastime, but an addiction that works overwhelmed in personal life and that of the neighbors. Money is the root of all evil, wrote an apostle a long time ago and we now know how often that is proven equal. It makes the government's responsibility particularly great at the moment when it organises a system in which forms of online gambling are allowed and people can legally get started to test their happiness or misfortune. In that light, my group has asked why it has not been considered before to keep the illegal offer tighter. The Minister's answer is summarised: that is difficult, difficult, almost unfeasible, in any case priceless and the experts in 2010 recommended "focus on regulation now." The committee that wrote the report, however, had not only the three main objectives of gaming policy as a guide, but also the idea of channeling, according to the research assignment. Is anything other than allowing online gambling to be regulated still to be proposed? Enforcement costs money, but at the same time it has given full advice on how to improve enforcement. I quote: "Another important bottleneck is the enforcement of illegal providers from abroad. This is why the Committee recommends trying to cut off illegal providers from their Dutch public. This is possible by introducing and maintaining an obligation for Dutch service providers (such as internet service providers, payment service providers and media) to no longer cooperate in maintaining contacts between illegal providers and the Dutch public." What happened to this recommendation? How much effort was it? How many times has this effort been intensified? Anyone who fills in "online gambling" online in a search engine will find anything about the possibilities to do so, but nothing about the Gambling Authority. No warnings or even informative texts: nothing. How does the Minister evaluate that? I would also ask the Minister whether after 2010 there have been technical developments that could have raised many more barriers in the accessibility of the online gambling market. Whether it's about our financial system and how money flows can be tracked, or the ability to block websites from other countries. Not only enforcement, but also preventive, has been rowed with lean belts in recent years. How many people even know that online gambling is an illegal activity? To continue with the report, which the Minister finds a basis for this bill: that committee advised to regulate only online poker. Can the Minister state exactly what is covered by this bill? Is he indeed thinking mainly of poker or are there other gambling games with a substantial user group? How did the Minister weigh this aspect of the opinion? Wouldn't it be easier in terms of enforcement to limit the number of games of chance you allow? As mentioned above, the degree of channelisation is an important starting point for the legislative proposal. The Christian Union Group is always hesitant when this argument is used to broaden the possibilities of gambling. And for good reason. Because usually the introduction of such a channelization rate at the same time also simply means expanding the gambling market. The figures in neighbouring countries that have taken the step towards regulation give this picture. It simply means more players and therefore more people at risk of becoming addicted. The Minister argues what means he is using to prevent new players from joining. But my group is not convinced yet. Then why are advertising on television only excluded until 7 p.m.? What limits does the Minister set for online advertising? And what enforcement options does he have when it comes to surreptitious advertising? I am thinking of the gambling companies that sponsor sports teams, for example the Wheel Union. Several major football clubs such as PSV and Ajax already made lucrative deals with online gaming companies in China. How does the Minister feel about that? Is this a development which the government considers desirable for sport? My group considers it to be such a bad example. What do we say to young athletes? Mr. Chairman. Regulation of online gambling has a positive sound, as it gives the impression that a clear legal framework helps to solve all problems. But that creatability idea soon ignores the fact that you have to intervene very firmly, if you want to reduce the number of problem gamblers. It's about preventing new generations from thinking that gambling is mostly cozy. As far as alcohol and smoke policy is concerned, we are now taking the step backwards, and the social standard is no longer that it can do no harm. In gambling policy, this proposal tends to be the opposite. In addition, what the government allows is found to be more normal. It gives parents an important argument less when they talk to their children. Expanding the possibilities means more gambling, more addicts. Denmark shows that, unfortunately, this is not a doomsday. I have seen recent studies with the same picture in Spain, in Germany. Do we really know what we're getting into? In addition, important thresholds are missing. For example, there are countries that use the age of 21 years. Precisely because younger people are more sensitive to the incentives from gambling sites. In fact, I understand from addiction care that young people under 24 years of age are more vulnerable to the seductive effects of gambling games and games. It's connected to brain development. How did the Minister weigh such insights into this bill? If addiction prevention is an important objective, I would like to see a basic rule from addiction prevention started the younger the greater the risk of derailment in this legislative proposal. From gaming to gambling: that is unfortunately an increasingly common route among young people. The Belgian gaming authority recently released a strong warning shot by intervening in the popular FIFA game. How firm is the Netherlands? The lock boxes that are at stake here seem to me to be prohibited under the current law. Is this still the case when the proposed law is adopted? The Council of State has been very critical of this bill and, in particular, its intended degree of channelisation. Both the effectiveness and enforcement of the bill are contested. The Council of State also had a legislative proposal with a differentiated tax rate for online and land-based gambling. Further consideration of the bill has led to the abolition of the discount for online gambling. My group also found and finds the lower rate a wrong incentive to play online. But the Council of State does mention an important point of attention when it comes to achieving a good level of channeling. How does it become attractive for online gambling providers to switch to the legal circuit? What effect does changing the rate have on that? Does the Minister have any information on that? During the examination in the Lower House, the amendment - Swinkels c.s. resulting in the power of the Gaming Authority to block websites via an IP or DNS blockage no longer exists. The famous Denmark, with the high channelization rate, indicates in the EU reports to which the Minister refers that these Internet blocks are particularly effective in banning illegal gambling providers. Sorry, Chairman, for my coughing. It almost touched me. In this legislative proposal, the amendment has made this impossible. How does the Minister see that? What possibilities does the Gaming Authority still have to block? What does the absence of this possibility for banning illegal providers mean? How will that affect the level of channelization? I'd like a clear answer from the Minister. The Group of the Christian Union is concerned about the enforcement possibilities of the Gaming Authority with providers from abroad. We deplore the fact that the Minister has not seen any possibility of requiring the authorisation of an actual establishment of a provider in the Netherlands. We refer to Belgium and Switzerland, where the rule is applied. Mr. Chairman. Let me ask you a question about licensing. The motion-Building Master c.s. was in the Lower House ready-to-use. Offers of illegal gambling sites are no longer included in the licence application for a legal offer. Clear language, but what does the Minister think now? Is he gonna execute the motion in full? Or does he make a nuance in time or extent of illegality? I hope he will stick to that clear language, and I would therefore like to hear a clear answer. Mr. Chairman. As I said, regulation of online gambling has a positive sound, because it gives the impression that a clear legal framework helps to solve all the problems. So far, however, we are not convinced that this is actually the outcome. Unfortunately, there are insufficient thresholds to defeat the illegal gambling sites. Denmark has already shown that, unfortunately, this is not a doomsday. Then there is the proposal to modernise the game casino regime. The Minister does not have to be a psychic to taste in my group's questions that we are sceptical about that. But we have seen together in the written round that the provision of gambling is not, in its nature, a central task of the government. However, we do not start here with a blank sheet. Holland Casino is here and in recent years the government has tried to shape the goals of gambling policy: preventing crime, preventing addictions and protecting consumers. The proposal before us will also weigh my group in terms of these objectives. Is modernisation an improvement, less addiction or less crime, better consumer protection? That doesn't affect our position of principle. Too often gambling is harmful. We don't want to stimulate it. Where the greed can be discouraged, that's not such a crazy idea at all. The chances of winning are usually low and there are too many tragic stories of derailed lives, even in this already regulated sector. In addition, the legislative proposal reads as a first step towards further market opening. The usual features of a market "profit maximization', increasing a market share "market share' are in stark contrast to the objectives of the policy. There is no avoiding competition with several suppliers. How does the Minister see that? The choice is to increase the number of casinos while opening up the online market, and the Minister in his written replies indicates that he does not expect any growth in game turnover. How do these data relate to each other? Can these observations co-exist? Could the Minister once again state clearly how the three objectives of gambling policy are now served by the simultaneous introduction of these two laws and the effects that that will have on Holland Casino? Mr. Chairman. Of course, it is not for nothing that we deal with these laws together. The Council of State also commented on it, because in the Netherlands we are not regulating the various games of chance now in a single regime, with a vision that is appropriate for all those games together. The Council of State states that games of chance with a relatively low addiction risk, such as lotteries, are more strictly regulated than games of chance with a higher addiction risk, such as casino games and online gambling. Under certain circumstances, European law can be regarded as not sufficiently consistent. The Council of State is therefore critical of the policy's horizontal consistency. Does the Minister consider that the Netherlands is taking risks in adopting these laws? Is this Europe proof? Or could it be that if we say a here now, the logic forces us to further broaden different regimes in the near future? I recall the members of Parliament from 1964 that I mentioned at the start of my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u53	Mr. Postema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Cheers!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u55	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u56	I would like to ask Mrs Bikker a question about the consistency between these regimes. As far as she is concerned, would it have been a desirable idea that the online market would be served by a state monopoly such as Holland Casino?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u57	In 2008 there was, of course, thought in those terms. You should be aware in my speech that I'm actually indicating gambling but not finding anything. My group prefers not to see an online offer at all, because we do not want to encourage it. But if you fly that from a different line of thought, I can at least imagine that you're trying to keep the damage manageable. The moment you open up the market, it's a lot more complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u58	I see some enthusiasm for that, despite your comments on gambling as such. It is not for nothing that you also come up with the argument of consistency. Wouldn't it have been nice if the trump card had been played during the cabinet negotiations, including by your own party?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u59	Well, that's an issue, isn't it? At that time, these laws had already been passed in the Lower House. At that time that was not the case for my Lower Parliamentary Group and was chosen to bet on other things. I am curious to hear the story of Mr Postema later. These proposals arose in the Rutte II cabinet. So perhaps your party would have had an advantage in criticizing you in any case in a blog, but that is what we are going to hear here in plenary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u60	Again, I'm just hacking into your own initiative to make the consistency argument. I'm just gonna go through with that. I note that you cannot give a consistent answer to this question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u61	Well, I'll go on for a while, because that's definitely consistent. I wasn't sitting at the table as the First Chamber. I judge these laws from my own position here and I observe that there is no consistency. At the time when this Chamber would choose not to pass these laws, my group as a government party on the other side does not have this group, but it has the responsibility on the other side to see if there is a solution. But that was not necessary at the time, because it may also happen that these laws do not make it. Then we'll see what happens again. So that's pretty consistent and the Labour Party can help me to move forward so consistently, but we'll see about that later. Mr. Chairman. So my group has not yet been reassured, and that is why I asked critical questions about the necessity and impact of the choices that are now being made. We want to discourage gambling and we believe that too little budget has been made available for enforcement in recent years. Nor are we convinced that these proposed laws contribute to the main objectives of gambling policy. We don't like to bet, that just became clear, but certainly not on the wrong horse. Nevertheless, we look forward to the answers of the Minister and the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u62	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. I give the floor to Mr Postema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u63	Mr. Chairman. When, in October 2016, thirty students from class four of one of the Limburg secondary schools visited the Senate, I wanted to illustrate to them the way in which our Chamber operates by means of the legislative process of a bill that was then discussed recently: the legalization of remote gambling. As a warm-up, I asked them who had recently participated in an online game of chance. Most of the hands went into the air. In my follow-up question who knew that such gambling on the Internet is forbidden, those hands were left out. This anecdote offers a stepping stone to at least three observations. First of all, despite the current ban on online gambling, there is a massive participation in online gambling in the Netherlands, and so is young people. Secondly, the illegality of this offer and its use may not be entirely unknown, but at least it is not taken seriously. Finally, we note that we are writing February 2019. If we correct the preparation time of the Justice and Security Committee, it appears that the government has taken almost two years to answer a number of questions from the First Chamber about the legislative proposal before us today. A bill submitted to the Lower House in July 2014. So it might just be that the Minister doesn't feel the urgency I felt in that conversation with these 15- and 16-year-old students. Mr. Chairman. The number of active participants in online gambling in the Netherlands is estimated at about half a million players and is rapidly growing. Last time there was a much larger number in the newspaper, but it might have been people who did it once in their lives or this year. That was not entirely clear, so I will stick to the conservative assessment of half a million. This also applies to those who are affected by this, ranging from financial problems to serious gambling addiction. The number of risk players in our country is estimated at about 100,000, the number of actual gambling problem players at over 20,000. In addition to a number of trustworthy lotteries, slot rooms and play casinos, there is a criminal circuit that makes money easier and faster than drug trafficking by offering games of chance illegally. Meanwhile, the Gaming Authority (Ksa) states that it has neither the capacity nor the tools to combat the flood of illegal supply. We must note that Dutch policy in this area is technologically and socially outdated. Maintaining the full ban on online gambling is hardly a viable option, no matter how strong the resistance to such activities will be. My group therefore supports the idea that effective fight against illegal online gambling requires that players be offered a safe, controlled and legal alternative. This makes it possible to combat inappropriate play behaviour more effectively, to redirect risk and problem players to help and to register in CRUKS, the Central Register for Exclusion of Gaming. It also reduces the market share of illegal providers. This will allow the Ksa to focus its enforcement tools and capabilities more effectively and effectively on the remaining illegal providers. The draft law provides for remote gambling, including an additional enforcement toolbox for the Ksa to better combat illegal offerings, both online and land-based. For example, by adopting this bill, it can force third parties that facilitate illegal providers, such as payment services, platform providers and media parties, with a binding indication to discontinue their services to such providers. In addition, the Ksa will be given the power to issue a public warning to inform players about the harmful gambling offer of illegal parties in the ongoing investigation into infringement of the law. In this way, my group shares the main thrust of the legislative proposal. However, we are concerned about the eagerness with which the Minister and his Liberal predecessors seem to take up legalising and opening up the online gambling market. My group is also concerned about the fact that players are allowed to participate in the gambling game even before the verification of identity is complete, and that the balance on the provisional playing account can be as much as €1,500. It'll be your son, daughter, or addicted partner, I guess. The main concern, however, is the parties that will soon become active in the open online market. As long as these equipment are trusted parties based in the Netherlands with an undisputed record of service, who have so far kept away from the illegal offering of online gambling, the Minister has taken us with him. However, if he allows light to exist between the motion-Building Master's movement adopted by the Dutch Parliament in 2011 which was also mentioned by colleagues Dercksen and Bikker and the possibility of helping current providers of illegal online games to obtain a permit, he will certainly not find us on his side. This is also reinforced by the Minister's statement in his answer to questions on this point that the starting point in carrying out the Bouwmeester motion will be that it would be to exclude parties sanctioned by the Ksa. That seems to me to be excellent, but the question is whether this is a sufficiently complete group. After all, the inability to impose appropriate sanctions is precisely one of the problems. So we're just missing some current illegal online providers. I therefore call on the Minister to be absolutely clear. As far as my group is concerned, it concerns all the parties that have committed themselves in recent years to the illegal provision of online gambling in the Netherlands. When such parties wish to be eligible for a licence, we think a clearly defined cooling-off period is at issue, in which they show respectfully how to deal with Dutch law and thus refrain from illegally offering online gambling. We are thinking of a period of two or three years. I would like to hear the Minister's response to this, including the way in which he will shape this into lower laws and regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u64	Is Mr Postema now saying that after two or three years away from the Dutch market, any illegal provider can simply qualify for a gambling permit? Is it true that I heard Mr Postema say just now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u65	What Mrs Gerkens could hear me say is that parties are excluded from a licence if they do not comply with it. In addition, parties will, of course, have to meet all kinds of conditions in order to qualify for a licence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u66	I understand that, because that will also have to be met by all the other providers. Everyone must abide by the conditions that are set. It would be a bad thing if we didn't keep these conditions to the illegal providers. But I understand that Mr Postma is actually saying the same thing that the Minister has already said. He says: well, I do not rule out the possibility of illegal suppliers being allowed to obtain a licence in that market in the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u67	Well, I don't see it that way. That has to do with the fact that, of course, you cannot say that providers who have illegally operated on that market should not be allowed to improve their lives until the end of time. With my suggestion to the Minister, therefore, I simply wanted to give more concrete expression to its definition, in order to make the Bouwmeester motion feasible. On the contrary, I would like to prevent light being placed between what I believe is a very broad majority in both Chambers, namely the banning of illegal providers, and later on the licensing process. Hence my plea for a cooling-off period, in particular to take account of the positive effect that on the one hand a number of parties will refrain from the current illegal offer, and on the other hand, after a number of years, in any case, they will no longer be excluded from a licence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u68	Mrs Gerkens, finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u69	I merely foresee that illegal parties now act smartly as if they are going to abstain from the market, but at other times have all kinds of illegal activities again, that this is a bummer and that we permit people whose offerings ultimately constitute unfair competition with those of parties that have actually refrained from illegal activities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Preventing gambling addiction, combating fraud and other crime, and protecting consumers, in addition to channeling, also requires that the Ksa is better equipped in terms of both instruments and capacity to effectively combat the remaining illegal supply of online gambling. I mentioned earlier some important improvements to which the present legislative proposal provides. The Minister states that the fight against this illegal offer is very real, not so much because of the detection, but because of the enforcement action. Indeed, there are highly opaque structures of legal entities and natural persons hiding behind illegal gambling websites. These are typically complex foreign business structures, the use of stromens, foreign trust offices and foreign hosting providers that protect the identity of the providers. In this context, my group has been surprised that the Swinkels/Verhoeven amendment has deprived the Ksa of the power to implement DNS and IP blockades on illegal websites. Apparently, the authors, and also the Minister, do not consider the fight against the illegal offer to be so important that blocking these harmful gambling websites is possible, even as a last step of an intervention ladder. This is true for child pornography, for terrorist propaganda and educational material, and as far as my group is concerned, this also applies to illegal gambling such as poker websites. This is also in line with the Advisory Committee on Gambling on the Internet, based on an investigation commissioned by the Minister of Justice in 2010. The Minister for Legal Protection fails to refer to this in his answer to questions from my group, but, like the authors of the amendment, is limited to the 2015 WRR report, entitled The Public Core of the Internet. Does the Minister consider that the Dutch government should never and will never intervene on the central protocols and infrastructure of the Internet, as advocated by the WRR? And if this is not so definite, for example, when state security is at risk, where does the Minister put the border? And how does this relate to the actual situation, namely that we are working with a daily updated blacklist for Internet providers? What measure does the Minister measure here? We ask the Minister for a clear statement on the criteria used by the Dutch government in the use or non-use of DNS and IP blockades, and other interventions aimed at the central protocols and infrastructure of the Internet, as well as the commitment that he will involve the scope of this ruling in the evaluation of the present legislative proposal. That evaluation is due in three years. Mr. Chairman. With these important reservations, my group is thus largely in favour of the proposal to legalise online gambling and regulate it through a licensing system, combined with increased care for risk and problem players and the effective fight against illegal providers. This is different from the second bill that we are discussing in plenary today, the change in the legal regime for casinos and the privatisation of Holland Casino. At the time of the creation of Holland Casino in 1974, a government monopoly was deliberately chosen, as the most appropriate way to regulate this market. The Gambling Act created the possibility of issuing an exclusive license for the organisation of casino games. Thus, the government has fulfilled its commitment to the company in order to achieve a responsible, reliable and verifiable organisation of the games casinos in the Netherlands and to minimise the risks of undue participation for players. And that's exactly what happened. However one may think about participation in games of chance, Holland Casino carries out, also internationally, exemplary of his legal task. The observation that the number of illegal casinos can be counted on the fingers of one hand underlines this point. The Minister's answer to questions from this Chamber has shown that the only reason to proceed with the privatisation of Holland Casino lies in the fact that this was announced in 2013 in the Note Participation Policy Government, with the motivation that gambling is not a government activity. Now, of course, we do not need to remind the Minister that this policy has not been defined by Parliament as such. More importantly, however, what is at stake here is the safeguarding of public interests, in this context, the prevention of gambling addiction, the fight against fraud and other crime, and the protection of consumers. Such public interests need to be secured through laws and regulations, and this can very well be provided through a State monopoly in case this is preferable to a free or regulated market. I refer to the findings of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on Privatisation/Seviation Public Services, which explicitly stated that over the last few decades too often and too quickly the rejection of public service to the market has taken place. It is precisely with such a fragile activity as offering land-based games of chance that we should not gamble on a successful outcome. Now the Minister states that, in modernising the legal regime, play casinos are chosen for a cautious approach, with limited opening of the casino market. Given that Holland Casino is planned to be cut into pieces and sold in separate lots, and that two additional licences would also be auctioned, that reasoning is difficult to follow. Even more complicated is it when the Minister writes that research shows that the vast majority of visitors to a game casino come within a 20-mile radius or a 30-minute journey time and that this science is important for channeling the offer. The Minister also points out that there will always be at least two providers per operating area, so that the competition in gambling, which he praises, takes place here too. We ask the Minister what distributional picture with which numbers of suppliers we will be able to find. A operating area of at least two competing games casinos with a radius of 20 kilometers provides considerably more locations in our count than with some sixteen permits can cover. The Labour Party's group also finds it difficult that the sale of Holland Casino and the opening up of the land-based casino market to multiple providers will in any case lead to a substantial increase in the gross playing result. Indeed, the purchase amount put on the table by the acquiring parties for Holland Casino will have to be recovered, while private parties will also impose different return requirements than they currently do with the State participation in Holland Casino. Commercial, internationally operating casino operators will have little patience with a quacking demand and take everything out of the closet to increase it. It is also highly uncertain what such an operation will mean in the long term for the job security and working conditions of the employees of Holland Casino. Despite several written rounds, we have not yet received an answer from the Minister as to whether he shares this analysis and whether, apart from the autonomous development of gross game turnover, he considers such a development desirable. But even if the Minister convinces us that the goals of the gambling policy are not harmed by the modernisation of the game casino regime and commands the honesty that he has not been able to do so so so far, even then the question is whether it is wise to re-establish the Dutch gambling market with a big bang, and thus knowingly to say goodbye to Holland Casino and possibly also to the Dutch Lottery as trusted and owned parties. If market forces are already an answer to the demand for gambling, then it is certainly not worth a gamble. It is therefore obvious that the process of controlled legalisation of online gambling should not be burdened with the simultaneous modernisation of the game casino regime. Should the latter be considered justified, this could be concluded at the earliest on the basis of the evaluation of the Remote Gambling Act, we believe. Mr. Chairman. I will conclude with one last point, but no less important. My conversation with the above-mentioned students showed how badly we are actually aware of what should and should not be done when it comes to gaming. It doesn't help that games and gambling become more and more intertwined. They are not always offered separately from each other on the Internet. On websites where gaming is used, advertising is made for games of chance and vice versa. Inside games show up gambling elements and typical casino games like roulette can be played as games. There is work with loot boxes........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... This automatically brings them under the Game Law. Quality research by the Ksa shows that one in two gaming youngsters online makes the switch from gaming to gambling. Young people themselves do not see this as a switch, because they do not stop gaming. Of course, it doesn't help that online search engines such as Google and platforms such as Facebook deliberately cooperate with this offer. Can the Minister indicate what initiatives he is taking to put an end to this, if possible at European level? Both the young people questioned by the Ksa and the students of Group 4 who visited our Chamber in 2016 were of the opinion that playing social games as well as gambling entails risks. In both cases, these risks consist of their addictive effect and spending too much money. We owe it to them to provide an appropriate response to this and therefore look forward with extra interest to the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u71	I was just chewing on Mr Postema's speech on the privatisation of Holland Casino. Does his group actually say that she cannot imagine a good package for what it can be for? Or does he actually say: in the proposal as it stands, we do not see much, but it would be conceivable that this could be discussed in further adapted form?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u72	If I focus on the planned privatisation of Holland Casino, the main line of my argument is firstly that the public interests are too big to take a chance with it now and secondly that it seems to us unwise to liberalise both the online gambling market and the land-based casino market in one big bang.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u73	But in principle privatisation would be negotiable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u74	As such, if you look at how the Note equity policy is built up, you see that as a government you have to periodically check whether this still needs to be maintained as a participation. But public interests must be at the forefront of this. That's what we missed in that trade-off.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u75	But it's conceivable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u76	It's certainly conceivable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u77	I would like to return to the concerns expressed by Mr Postema about the thin dividing line between games and gambling, and how young people are lured into it. The figures from Belgium are disturbing; they show that the gambling market is actually getting completely out of hand there. One of the measures they want to take now is a ban on advertising gambling. This is already prohibited in other countries. Isn't that something we could think of: just not advertising people to gamble?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u78	As such, that seems to be a very appealing suggestion. I think out loud when I say that the moment you want to channel to an online offer that has been licensed and controlled, there must of course be information about that. So the players need to know where to go in order to be able to gamble legally. In this sense, the Chamber also has a functional function.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u79	We could still debate that. But I think we agree that the information provision is actually nil and that it can and should be improved. On the other hand, we also see that in countries where online gambling is possible, there is a ban on advertising gambling, with which it also tempers. Once again, in Belgium, this is now being proposed by the government, in order to try to reduce wild growth. So I would ask you to reconsider this; perhaps we can discuss it again in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u80	I am very happy to record that and I am happy to admit that I will reconsider it. Let me reply to another point: in our view, it is not the case that legalising that online market is a panacea. This will be accompanied by all kinds of problems. I found that Mr Bikker was completely unaware of the fact that the illegal market has been completely derailed since the last proposal that has been dealt with here in the Chamber in 2008. We were standing there, and we looked at it. Then you can say that the Ksa should have maintained more, but there has not been a single party that has taken the initiative very concretely, with a lot of money and a new set of instruments. In all honesty, I believe that we also have a responsibility together to look at this market development and to provide a genuinely appropriate response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u81	I think Mrs Bikker felt addressed, but that's not up to me. I agree with you. I also question the figures presented, because an illegal market is difficult to measure, I know from my work. But we see that the legal market is also derailing. That concerns me, and that is why I made that proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u82	In fact, I was struck by the fact that Mr Postema said that I was ignoring the fact that the market has been derailed in recent years, because we have not invested enough in the Gaming Authority. My group pointed this out in the debate on this bill in the House of Representatives, two years ago, and indeed a few years ago, by the way. But that does not alter the fact that we must now look at how we should act and what is needed for the Gaming Authority to act properly. Does Mr Postema think, when he looks at these proposals, that the Gaming Authority will also have enough people to maintain what he has in mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u83	In my speech, I have already reacted rather sharply to the Minister and expressed our displeasure that one of these instruments, namely blockades as a last instrument, has disappeared through the amendment adopted in the House of Representatives. I myself believe that these instruments should not be forgotten, that they must be constantly taken into account in the development of technology, and that the capacity problems in the Ksa can no longer affect us in any way. The Minister will certainly have to respond convincingly to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u84	Mr Postma spoke sharply about the DNS blockade, because he indeed expressed his concerns, which I share. But then it was up to the Minister to evaluate that in three years' time. Then the Gaming Authority won't be able to block those illegal sites for the next three years, will it? It was precisely Denmark's example that showed that if you wanted that degree of channelization, this was the instrument to achieve good results there. This instrument is no longer available, and Mr Postema says: review in three years' time. I don't think that's sharp.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u85	That may not be sharp, but I am also looking at the democratic process. I note that it is an amendment adopted in the House of Representatives. There was a lot of support for that. Again, I'm sorry. I think that if one of the last resorts is to be a good instrument, even if it is to threaten it. But I am also very much looking at the whole thing, which has been discussed both in the Lower House and in the Upper House, and I note that we regret that it has now been removed in this way. I am making an attempt to review this at the next evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u86	Mrs. Bikker, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u87	I also see that democratic process. It mutilates the law a little bit more for me, because I think the Gaming Authority is now behind by 10-0. You would at least expect the Minister to come up with other measures. He could come up with ideas by now. Why not geo-blocking, for example? There are other possibilities, and I do not hear the Labour Party about that. I can only hear Mr Postema say 'three years from now', while the Gaming Authority is behind and you have just spoken a great deal about it. But perhaps we can come to something constructive in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u88	That seems to me to be a very good perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u89	Thank you, Mr. Postema. I give the floor to Mr Diederik van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Bookcases are fully written about the extent of the government's task. In the SGP's view, offering games of chance, and making money from them, is certainly not a task for the public authorities. My colleague from the Christian Union has just quoted the GPV chamber member Piet Jongeling, the SGP is, as you know, even further behind, so I quote the anti-revolutionary MP Green van Prinsterer, who said in 1840: 'We do not harden the treasury by encouraging a pernicious puzzling spirit'. So much for Green, perhaps the best MP who's ever walked around the Binnenhof. Or in more modern Dutch: "No penny in the treasury by profit from gambles." That the government terminates its interest in Holland Casino, we therefore find positive. Such termination is even a implementation of the SGP principle programme. We don't go through that every day. And the SGP isn't even in a tolerance position yet. That promises to be something after March 20th! So much for the agreed part of my speech. The rest is dismissive, I'm sorry. Gambling destroys more than you love. We're talking about many thousands of people, and their families back there, who broke down because of gambling addiction. Greed, an excessive, unhealthy desire for money, is mentioned in the Bible as the source of all evil. This is exactly what casinos play in, very sophisticated. After all, in a casino everything has been put together to take money in large amounts and, of course, give it as little as possible back, except for a brief, empty pleasure. Of course casinos use all kinds of marketing tricks that tempt the gambler to put as much money on the line as possible. But also by offering, very flat, cheap alcoholic drinks, for example, so that your ability to make wise decisions becomes less. It's just hard business. The government shouldn't release gambles, it should contain them. Unfortunately, the present legislative proposals do not contain sufficient evidence of this. Formally, the goal of gambling policy is still to combat gambling addiction. But how can one say with a dry eye that combating addiction can be achieved by a larger supply, which is also going to compete with each other? And that there should also be games casinos in every part of the country? One of the goals of the existing gaming policy is to curb the gaming. Consequences of the now proposed policy is that we are going to demand from commercial companies, which obviously want to make a profit, to keep their customers from taking their products too eagerly. I dare bet my money that this is an impossible expectation. The cabinet defends this by stating that it wants to work precisely to reduce illegal gambling. But doesn't the offer of legal gambling work very low-threshold to the use of illegal offerings? Is it not, as it appears in the prostitution sector, the whole idea of legalisation as an opportunity to reduce illegal supply outdated and unfounded? This thought has nothing to do with modernisation, but with outdated and primordial thinking. The government takes Holland Casino's largest location as a maximum for the play offer per location. Why has the government chosen so little ambitious target for the ceiling? Isn't it more logical to come up with a lower ceiling now that the number of establishments is being increased? Can the government also indicate how much growth is possible in the legal casino market compared to the existing market if all 16 establishments reach the maximum? How exactly is that limit determined? Is there only the number of gaming tables and slot machines or also the maximum turnover? Wouldn't it make more sense to bet on smaller establishments to make a start on progress? The role of the Gaming Authority is to monitor and enforce. Can the Minister promise and make it clear that the capacity, including in terms of FTE, of this authority is large enough? Mr. Chairman. In view of the above, it will not be surprising that the SGP also has serious objections to the draft law aimed at regulating remote gambling. In our view, this proposal serves above all the interests of the gaming industry and not to curb the gaming. The SGP is realistic enough to realise that it will never succeed in eliminating any form of gambling and gambling. But government regulation makes it seem like playing such games of chance is desirable and normal. That's contrary to the prevention of gambling addiction, isn't it? It is precisely in the case of anonymous remote gambling that there is a real expectation that the increase in demand will be high in the case of legalization of supply. The knowledge that a particular sector no longer operates illegally opens up the possibility for a wider audience to participate. Does the Minister deny this risk? There are a number of questions about the practical details. What happens to providers who now offer illegal offers? Is it sufficient for a company to have only an illegal establishment in Malta to be able to operate in the Netherlands? I hope that the illegal experience will not be rewarded with a nice permit. How can they be prevented from obtaining a licence? Mr. Chairman. The dualism of the proposed gambling policy is culminating in the rules that should apply to advertising of gambling. Advertising activities should not be aimed at encouraging participation in games of chance. This is annoyingly simplistic. Anyone who advertises at least intends to present his offer so attractive that it will lead to participation. I've never met a salesman who didn't want to be promoted. Isn't it impossible to advertise without any yard power? Does the Minister already see the advertisement appear before his eyes: "Play along at casino X too! Nice odds! Now all over the country!" And then in small print behind it: "But actually, it's money-out-of-the-pocket knocking. I'd rather you didn't join us." This is crazy, isn't it? Also offering free play goods the SGP can see no different than a form of recruitment for participation. There is no way in which this is done about the prevention of gambling. Smoking advertising is virtually forbidden, precisely to combat addiction. In the case of drugs, there is a complete ban on the advertising of hash and weed. Why, then, should we be able to advertise gambling? Why does the Cabinet not also propose a ban on advertising gambling, including online gambling? Wouldn't that be a logical idea if we were seriously trying to counter playfulness? The cabinet states that advertising for gambling should not be directed at young adults. Is this guarantee that advertising activities are prohibited in the vicinity of educational establishments or other places where many young adults come? Smoking is accompanied by a warning package leaflet. Is the Minister prepared to at least require this for gambling advertising? For example: "Don't put your family at risk." Or, "Gamble is playing with fire." Or: "Gamble: the recipe for social isolation." Mr. Chairman. I'm waiting for the Minister's answers with interest, but bet I'm not satisfied? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u91	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. I give the floor to Mrs Gerkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Gambling to the market, that is the essence of both legislative proposals that are before us today. Organising games of chance is not part of the core tasks of the government, the opinion of this government is. She wants to reject Holland Casino and open up the online gambling market in the Netherlands. Suggested: the SP is not against the risk of a guess, as long as it is about healthy game fun. That doesn't always have to be with money, by the way. But we also know that gambling is less beautiful. When someone becomes addicted, the consequences are enormous, not only for the person in question but especially for his or her environment. I've heard different numbers today. I'd like to go with Jellinek's numbers. They show that there are over 95,000 risk players in the Netherlands and 79,000 problem players who are probably also addicted to gambling or gambling. Around 2,000 people are actually being treated for this addiction. That number is slightly declining in our country. That's good. I think we should consider that as well. So we've controlled it. And indeed, offering games of chance is not a task for the government, but it is a task of the government to ensure that there is a policy that does as little damage as possible to its citizens. That is why my group is in favour of a restrictive gaming policy. As a government, we have taken on the task of gambling for a reason. The underlying idea was that games of chance should not be left to the market because of this risk of addiction. The ideology behind this is that when gambling is left to the market, the providers will encourage people to gamble, while that is exactly what you want to contain. We have done this to keep a grip on that world, a world full of shadows and constantly looking for more customers. To be honest, we could have done this a little better; I say that between the nose and the lips. Mr. Chairman. It's remarkable how I've been constantly approached to take a guess. At the end of last year I regularly came to various packing points to pick up purchases for sinterklaas. Everywhere, on the street and through advertising for the same products, there are temptations: scratch cards, lottery tickets and special drawing. For only €2 I already play with the Lotto and for €5 I can scratch my scratching lottery ticket every day every day. By the way, most people in my neighborhood scratched away that whole fate in 15 minutes. When I come home, there is an offer from the Friends or Bank girolottery on the mat: guaranteed a price, now join in for the jackpot. When I wanted to cancel the participation of such a guaranteed winning chance, I was called during the phone call because it is not possible to cancel online that I have several times been told that I have lost wonderful opportunities by canceling my fate. The reason for this is very simple: gambling is just a lot of money to be made. If this is a restrictive gambling policy, I fear a gambling market without restrictions. 'Cause gambling isn't an innocent game to let people get away with. Behind this game is a big industry that has only one goal: profit maximization. Of course, they offer accompanying policies to prevent addiction. How else can you persuade people to support such a policy? However, we know that this policy has sometimes left a lot to be desired. My group therefore has no illusions that commercial parties will implement this policy better. What interest do they have in this, I ask the Minister. How does the Minister see this tension field? How did he weigh this in his decision? If the Minister also sees this danger, I ask him. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Gambling in the anonymous atmosphere gives a greater chance of addiction. How risky is online gambling? Today we are confronted with the anonymous world of the Internet. People wish each other serious things, share terrible events and even make threats. That is really something the Internet does to us; that is not something that is by definition in our human being. Part of the internet is built on this: Google, Facebook and other platforms employ neuropsychologists who know exactly how to seduce us to click on an offer. Exactly how that works, only those providers know. They shut up and the internet user has checked, but it is certain that chemical processes are used that induce dopamine and endorphins. It is also certain that these online gaming providers use these techniques to make people gamble more and more often. And sure is that online gambling is addictive because it can't hardly be limited to anything. And it is certain that children are already getting ready for that gambling market by offering seemingly innocent games that have the same elements as gambling; that was already mentioned today. Worried are the figures on online gambling among young people. In the last six months, between 12 and 16 year olds gambled almost a quarter online. Of the 17- to 18-year-olds that was 28%. I ask the Minister how he intends to curb this phenomenon so that a distinction can be made between responsible and irresponsible supply. If we cannot see what mechanisms are being used, how can the offer be controlled? How does the Minister intend to control this? If the Minister has an answer to that question, I ask him why he does not first opt for the use of these resources and for the extension of Ksa's powers, before he resorts to the means of opening up the market. Mr. Chairman. I read in Belgian Time that Belgium's online market has grown enormously in recent years. Especially during the World Championship, the number of gamblers increased from 50,000 to 60,000 to 125,000 participants. So that's a doubling. When the World Championship was over we know that for the Belgians it turned out that the number of gamblers lingered. Now there are about 85,000 people gambling online. About 35,000 problem gamblers are registered with the Belgian Gambling Commission. That's almost twice as much as it was four years ago. Aid workers think that this is a serious understatement, because they estimate the number at least 0.5 million and at least 0.25 billion euros were gambled. Mr. Chairman. These figures are shocking. Does the Minister know these figures? Belgium wants to tighten up gambling policy now. There are plans to ban advertising on a platform other than its own. There is also a general ban on advertising gambling in Italy. What is the Minister's view on this? Is the policy proposed sufficiently strict to avoid the problems that have been encountered by Belgian colleagues? And why didn't he set up an advertising ban? It is clear that there is money to be made in the gambling world. In recent years we have been bombarded with e-mails from parties who ask us to share in the proceeds. Just that single fact indicates that offering games is not done to give people fun by taking a guess, but just to make money. Mr. Chairman. I conclude that we have a good gambling policy that we are threatening to give away with these two legislative proposals. In doing so, I will deal with the legislative proposals, first of all with the proposal to make online gambling possible. The SP Group is pleased that the Ksa will have more powers in the law. This is urgently needed if they are to be able to combat the illegal supply more effectively. For example, they can play anonymously to track participants, payment services can be asked to stop payments and those responsible in the chain can be contacted. These are good measures, but my group has serious doubts about the proposal to allow online gambling on the Dutch market. The minister says he wants to draw people away from the illegal offer by creating legal offers, but that legal offer must be at least as attractive as the illegal offer. At the same time, this offer must comply with a number of rules to prevent too much gambling. I asked this question several times in the written round, but I did not get a good answer: Minister, how? How then will the legal offer ensure that the more attractive illegal offer is pushed away on the market without the attraction of the illegal games? What's the duty of care gonna look like? How can a provider check whether one is dealing with a potential addict or with someone who just wants to take a chance? And how is this minister going to ensure that citizens know whether there is a legal or illegal offer? I'm taking a little trip to the secondary concert ticket sales, where many people are misguided every year. That's perfectly legal, with the agreement of the ACM. Again, how? Mr. Chairman. Our group is still not reassured by the successful implementation of the approved Chamber's motion by PvdA, CDA and SP, which states that illegal providers cannot qualify for a licence. In his answers to the House of Representatives, the Minister introduced the concept of proportionality, among other things. In doing so, he suggests that there are circumstances in which illegal providers of today will eventually be able to obtain a licence. He says that this cannot be done at the start of the market, but that he will not rule it out later. I hope to hear explicitly here from the Minister for Legal Protection that he is not going to reward bad behaviour in the long term. I would also like to come back to the Kooiman amendment. Should there be any confusion about this, I would like to explain how my party colleagues on the other side intended this amendment. The underlying idea of the amendment is that offline operators should not use their current client base for any new online gambling. I personally believe that the GDPR will not allow this either, because you have not given permission to do so. If the general terms and conditions of those providers have made an exception to this, then this amendment will stop it. These are therefore new forms and not forms of games that already exist, which are already taking part in and which have been authorised by the GDPR. The Minister gave a more stringent explanation on the other side earlier and I would like to ask him to explain the amendment as the author intended. Mr. Chairman. Then the proposal to privatise Holland Casino. There's a lot to do at Holland Casino. It is also clear that the government has not always kept its finger on the pulse in recent years. Maybe there was no need for that either. The underlying reason remains guessing, but one thing is clear: once we start privatising, let's leave it to the market, indeed what this VVD minister wants, and the market wants to make a profit. The market wants to extend the boundaries of the market as much as possible in order to achieve profit maximization, which is tantamount to a restrictive gambling policy. And that's what we're done with. It is clear that the SP stands for a restrictive gambling policy, a good gambling policy, with which we have managed for years to control the number of addicts to a few thousand, a number that even falls. There is no greater purpose served in privatising Holland Casino or offering online gambling games than the market, and that is a bad plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u93	Thank you, Mrs Gerkens. I give the floor to Mr Ten Hoeve.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u94	Mr. Chairman. Gambling, in whatever form, is not in principle a task for the government, but the risks that games of chance can bring are such that the government does not avoid interfering, by prohibiting, regulating and controlling, or even offering itself in exceptional cases. The government does not have to have an ethical judgment on gambling, not negative as objectionable and not positive by considering it as a fun pastime for the people. For the government, it is enough to conclude that games of chance are being organised and that apparently there are always people to participate. And then it comes to the conclusion that some participants are at risk in such a way that it also has profound social consequences. And therefore the conclusion that the government has no choice but to interfere. The question is, of course, what this intervention should be aimed at. The government can choose to provide enough space to fully meet the demand that exists in society, or even can be generated, and then, as a government, take measures to reduce personal but above all social damage. The government can also choose to keep the use of gambling as limited as possible due to its adverse effects, and then, because zero gambling is not accessible, to complement the policy with measures to reduce personal and social damage. Or somewhere in between. The cabinet gives the impression of taking the first approach. It wants to give space to all those Dutch people who want to take a recreational gamble and have fun with it. The offer must then be regulated in order to enable effective measures to be taken against the abuse of the opportunities offered. But in principle, the market must be able to offer what is demanded. And that demand may also be "channelled" by advertising for regulated supply, lured away from illegal supply, but thus stimulated. The two legislative proposals before us explicitly assume that the provision of gambling is not a public task. Hence the choice to privatise the casinos. The fact that these casinos are owned by the State was, of course, not so much a choice of state offerings at the time, it was a choice of full state supervision of the offer. The Secretary of State points out that there is tension between the two roles the State has here, that of shareholder and that of author of restrictive rules and supervisor. That is, of course, correct, but since it has to be assumed that for the public authorities the shareholder interest of profit remains subordinate to the social importance of the strict rules and their control, can this perceived tension hardly create a real problem? Privatisation of the casinos creates the same tension for private owners between the shareholder interest of profit and the obligation to cooperate loyally with all the complex regulations that protect players from overly risky behaviour. That tension could give rise to a problem much sooner, no matter how well-willed the new owners become. In the constellation proposed by the government, two more casinos are added and much is expected of the competition to be created in order to offer players as attractive as possible. The provision of free incentive bonuses is not prohibited and advertising, for example on television, is allowed after 7 p.m. The supervisory regime is getting tighter. I can understand that some people fear that there will be more progress, and that despite strict supervision this will lead to more problematic use, is not excluded. I can also imagine that the trade unions have less financing in the private owners than in the state administration, despite the five-year collective agreement that has been concluded. It seems that the only reason for this privatisation is that running a casino is not a central task of the government. Can the Minister make it clear whether there are any more reasons than just this one? As far as remote gambling is concerned, I have some double feelings. The choice is of course, apart from some further details, to permanently prohibit online play, or, as proposed, to legalise it with a licensing system that imposes strict requirements. The fact that hundreds of thousands of Dutch people participate in the abundant illegal offer on the internet may be a reason to create a legal offer. Because then again, as with the casinos, it is possible to lay down rules that can protect the player. In addition, illegal supply can be made more difficult by, for example, blocking the processing of payments. On the other hand, however, in this case foreign companies which have so far made illegal offers on the Dutch market may be eligible for licences. Yes, under strict conditions, but still. Moreover, all these strict conditions mean that both compliance by the provider and control by the Gaming Authority is at least more difficult than at the casinos. Or does the Minister think that's gonna be okay? In addition, advertising is made possible here too. Of course, this was not allowed for the illegal supply, but for legal supply, advertising has to come again in order to get the demand for those legal providers. The Minister even expects, I quote: 'in the first year intensive advertising on television and the Internet'. It is not implausible that this advertising and the awareness that public play is permitted will lead to additional demand. And so, despite all the rules, are there any additional problems? And extra social costs and personal misery? Not impossible, I guess. On the basis of the envisaged article 33h, the draft law regulates the establishment of the CRUKS, the register which, under circumstances, should deny problem players access to legal remote gambling and casinos, as well as slot rooms. Such a register is, of course, a welcome addition to the existing rules and should therefore be set up in any case. Just as the planned sharper hunt for illegal gambling sites should be deployed in any case. So even if the legislative proposals before us were to be rejected, there would still be some work to be done and there would still be enough work for the Ksa. Finally, Mr President. Lotteries generate a lot of money for charities and relatively little risk for the participants. However, in television advertising for lotteries, I sometimes have the feeling that a lot of viewers may be led to over-exploit the odds of a million and the risk of loss far too little. Have I understood correctly that the aim is to reduce the percentage of charity payments from 50% to 40%, and then by advertising and increasing prices to ensure that so many more lots are sold that the charities can count on equal support? If that is the intention, I am not very enthusiastic about that either. By the way, I am aware that any increase in gambling participants, legal but even illegal, can lead to additional revenue for the treasury. Perhaps the Secretary of State for Finance can tell us how much extra gambling tax the total realisation of all plans could not generate, and, of course, additional income for the addiction prevention fund. Mr President, I am curious to hear the comments of the Minister and the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u95	Thank you, Mr. Ten Hoeve. I give the floor to Mrs Van Bijsterveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u96	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing the legislative proposals aimed at legalising online gambling and at privatising and liberalising casinos. Before going into the substance of both legislative proposals, I would like to take a few figures to remind you of a small part of the social reality that lies behind the world of games of chance. It is estimated that there are now 95,700 risk players and 79,000 problem players. One of the previous spokesmen said so. In 2017, it is estimated that between 2,500 and 5,000 people were admitted due to gambling addiction. The estimated cost was between EUR 20 million and EUR 40 million. In 2014, 3,992 visitors, almost 4,000 thus, were banned on their own initiative for Holland Casino; in 2015 there were over 4,000 and in 2016 almost 5,000, to be precise 4.979. These figures are derived from the response of the proposal Modernisation of the game casino regime. Based on a number of 17 million inhabitants, a quick calculation shows that about 1% of the population is problem player, risk player or addict. That percentage is significantly higher if we do not include young minors and the elderly. The percentage is even higher when we look at the group of young adults, which is overrepresented in these statistics. The television programme EenVandaag, which on Saturday 20 October 2018 devoted a broadcast to gambling addiction, came to even higher percentages. These figures confront us in a compelling way with the reality of online and land-based gambling. Behind these figures are high debts, missed opportunities and devastated lives of individuals and families, to suicides and suicide attempts, as has been written in our neighbouring countries. And of course, it's just wasted money. As I said, young adults are overrepresented. According to EenVandaag, young people already have a certain habit of playing games with gaming elements. That was mentioned earlier in this debate. When legalising remote gambling, internet gambling, the government estimates the initial burden for a licence holder at a small €900,000, i.e. almost a million, and the structural burden per year at €600,000, excluding structural charges of €6,500 for keeping the licence. The further reply states: "The total structural burden on licence holders amounts to approximately 15% of the gross game result during the first five years." The government assumes about 45 licence holders. My group understands that the number of 45 is an estimate and that no legal limit is or can be imposed on the number of licensed suppliers. Is that right, by the way? In any case, the number of 45 licence holders gives an idea of the total amount expected by players for online gambling when this proposal becomes law, and we only talk about the legal part of online gambling in the Netherlands. The high tax contribution, 29% on gross income, also means a substantial amount of tax revenue for the Dutch government. Today, this was estimated at €100 million a year. Mr. Chairman. Is legalising internet gambling an adequate response to the reality of illegal online gambling and, if so, does the current bill provide for this? My group is not convinced of either to date. The bill aims to legalise online gambling in order to be able to offer an attractive offer to the thousands of people who want to gamble online recreationally and are not allowed to do so now because of the ban. At the same time, the bill aims to prevent gambling addiction and, when this occurs, to provide addiction care. That's what makes it crawling with two thoughts. As has already been explained during the written procedure, this is in the opinion of the CDA Group in the way in which the proposal is drafted. In addition, there are quite a few assumptions that my group does not believe have been convincingly substantiated. I will explain the specific objections raised by my group in the regulatory part of the legislative proposal and ask the Minister's response. Then I will deal with the maintenance of the remaining illegal offer and, finally, I will look at the proposed regime for the casino industry. The focus of my contribution is on the legislative proposals themselves. Delegation and sub-delegation and the European legal dimension are not highlighted for the sake of time. The proposal aims to ensure that the legalisation of online gambling is accompanied by very strict requirements that the licence holder must meet. The demands are indeed strict, complex and costly. The stricter the requirements of a licence holder, the stronger the complexity and the higher the costs, the less attractive it will be for a provider to create legal offers. This is certainly true of the many illegal foreign suppliers for whom the chance of being caught is very small even after the proposal is put into effect. The reduction of illegal supply through this bill on the supply side is therefore not very real. What influence does it have on the demand side? The legislative proposal is based on a channeling rate of about 80%. This means that the legal offer must be so convincing that the player chooses it. At the same time, the player must be protected by that legal offer for risk play and gambling addiction. To achieve this, the necessary obstacles are introduced for the player. The player must go through an entire program in which he must register, in which all kinds of sensitive data must be transmitted and in which he must specify a playing limit. In order to prevent identity fraud, he must also pass his bsn on to the gambling provider. This is demanded by the same government that tries to make people aware never to pass a bsn number to individuals. A self-chosen playing limit must be specified, but the same limit can be easily increased. And if the player doesn't feel like waiting for the limit to be increased, he can just go to one of the other licensed online providers and of course also to the large number of illegal providers. The provider should warn against the dangers of online gambling. Of course, that's good in itself. But will these warnings not be easily clicked away as usually happens with cookie notifications, accepting general terms and conditions and privacy statements on ordinary Internet sites? So what to expect from these precautions? My group is asking the Minister to provide an answer to this, which is convincing. It is well known that risk players, problem players or addicts will do a great deal to avoid the obstacles. And for that there are all the possibilities, including within the licensed offer. The bill establishes a central register, the CRUKS, for problematic players. Those players can volunteer. Players can even be excluded from playing against their will, but only temporarily. Does my group see it correctly that, on the basis of the amendment to item No. 27 involuntary registration in the CRUKS for online gamblers has been deleted and applies only to land-based gambling? Furthermore, does my group see it right that, upon registration, the licensed provider in the CRUKS can see the restrictions that apply to that particular player, which are included in respect of another provider, regardless of the type of game it concerns, whether land-based or online? Or are restrictions imposed on this in relation to privacy? Doesn't the temporaryity of registration mean such a gap in the proposal that its impact is undermined? My group would like to leave the Minister the room to convince her that CRUKS has real meaning. Each marketing authorisation holder should have an "addiction officer" who guides an online gambler with problem behaviour to addiction care. The officer must, if necessary, enter into "a personal and intrusive conversation" with the player concerned. This can be done by phone, skype or in-game message or web chat or even via a home visit. In doing so, the officer must "at least examine the consequences of the player's playing behaviour on his financial situation, family situation, health and work situation'. That is very personal and also extremely difficult to investigate, especially from the gambling provider to whom a problem player would not necessarily like to give openness to those very sensitive matters. According to the Government, the relevant officer at the provider must have been trained in "motivating call techniques." But an Internet warning, a skype or telephone call obviously does not have to be accepted, as the government acknowledged in response to the written questions of my group. They can be easily clicked away. Nor can a house visit be imagined. According to the government, the player can eventually be blocked as a player. My group's question is: is that also an obligation and, if so, when exactly? There is no mention of addiction care by the officer and there is no obligation for the player to go there. For privacy reasons, there is also no record or monitoring of whether use is made of it. How effective is that? It should be borne in mind that the whole range of other legal and illegal opportunities remains open. Therefore, despite the government's earlier explanations, my group is not in a position to reflect the effectiveness of such an approach, and the group can also well imagine that, in addition to a commercial interest in not wanting to intervene too quickly, there is also a degree of embarrassment to the supplier. Foreign providers are required to have such a contact person in the Netherlands by AMvB or by the licence.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The requirement for an establishment has not been continued because of European legal objections; it has now become a contact person who operates physically far away from the offering company. The person must be able to speak in Dutch, but there is no legal anchoring, and that would be reason enough for such a crucial requirement in the eyes of my group. For the rest, the same objections apply as I have just mentioned. I now come to the aspect of advertising. The bill allows advertising. That is understandable, because the legal offer in the Netherlands must of course also be made public. In addition, there will soon be a legal market in which about 45 competitors compete for the gambling spirit of the Dutchman. But advertising for such a sensitive subject, however strictly regulated, will easily tempt people to take a chance. Through advertising online gambling simply enters our ordinary lives. Should we expect adverts along the way or undergo radio ads for online gambling, which simply attract people to online gambling and thus to the potential addiction? The forms of advertising need not be aimed at young people. Research also shows that advertising with free toys and with high prize money are very effective seducers. That kind of advertising is just allowed. Only advertising aimed at young people and children is prohibited. But of course young people can get in touch with advertising. Can the Minister explain how all this is compatible with preventing game addiction, at least different or better than has been done so far? The same applies to the advertising of land-based casinos, which will soon have to compete with each other. Mr. Chairman. My group has already discussed the issue of enforcement in the various stages of the written procedure. On the one hand, we constantly read in the documents that enforcement is intrinsically complex, that illegal supply is also dynamic and flexible and that enforcement is therefore difficult. On the other hand, however, we constantly read that enforcement becomes easy after legalisation, so when adopting this bill. In response to the questions raised by the CDA Group, the government has explained that enforcement is not intrinsically easier after legalisation, but that this is because of the extension of the powers of the Gaming Authority. But the granting of additional powers is independent of legalisation and, as the government agreed, can also take place without legalising online gambling. Also blocking payments is of course very effective. After all, the majority of players in the Netherlands will pay through a Dutch bank account. My group regrets that the possibility of DNS and IP blockade has been removed. That is a very effective way of enforcing illegality that is so serious. Is the government prepared to reconsider its introduction? Are there conditions outside this field of gambling in which DNS and IP blockades can take place? That enforcement is so complex, my group may not feel so good for other reasons either. Tracking those sites shouldn't be so difficult, especially when online players in such a large number know how to find those sites. When payments can be blocked, a lot has already been won, you would think. My group can well imagine that complex legal structures can hide behind suppliers, with stromens and other constructions. Is there a lack of manpower to achieve results, or is there a lack of powers and, if so, what powers? Another element of enforcement is the human side. In response to our questions, the government has indicated that of the current 73 fte of the Gaming Authority only 6 are being used "to enforce illegal online offerings." When both legislative proposals are accepted, the government assumes an increase in the Gaming Authority from 20 to 30 fte, of which about 4 are "for enforcement activities against illegal online offerings." If it is true that action against illegal offers is considered to be of real importance by the government and that this is also time-consuming and complex, my group considers the available capacity to act against illegal offers to be extremely low. It puts the priorities of today and later on in terms of facilitating online gambling and preventing and combating illegal supply, right in the practical perspective. Can the Minister respond to this? I now come to the bill of modernisation of the casino business. The government considers that offering gaming is not a central task of the government. Therefore, it is proposed to privatise Holland Casino under conditions and also to release the existing casino monopoly. The aim of the bill is to channel the demand for casino games that currently exist, or may arise in the future, into legal, responsible, reliable and verifiable offerings. The legislative proposal provides for measures to prevent gambling addiction, protect consumers and combat fraud and crime. The difference with the other bill is that there is only a small-scale illegal offer, at least as far as is known. There is a legal offer, albeit through a state monopoly. The CDA Group recognises the importance of the objective, but does not recognise that this objective is not served by the current system. The CDA Group agrees with the government that offering games of chance as such is not a central task of the government. Do the objectives of gambling policy, namely the prevention of gambling addiction, consumer protection and the prevention of fraud and crime, not argue precisely that keeping this task in the hands of the public authorities is important? Can the government explain again why the current system should be replaced by a complex new system in which non-compliance and, above all, the promotion of participation in games is lurking? The government mentions as an objection from the current system that the government encounters itself in different roles. But that's not exceptional for this area alone, is it? That is the case in education, isn't it? And then the construction: out of the fourteen existing branches Holland Casino retains ten, the remaining four are sold as a block. In addition, one or two branches will be added, but they should not be operated by the provider of the block of four. This construction is motivated only vaguely and in meaningless terms. It is also unclear which ten and four branches of Holland Casino are involved. Who decides and on what grounds? What kind of candidates does the government think of: domestic, foreign or both? My group has already expressed concerns about the competition and advertising inherent in the privatisation and liberalisation of the casino market. This development - which is also provided for in the legislative proposal and is even regulated - does it not work in the direction of slowing down, but rather in the direction of encouraging gambling? In addition, the government also indicates that a modern and attractive offer for the casino industry can be achieved mainly through competition. I'd like a response from the Minister. Finally. My group is aware of the fact that illegality can never be completely eliminated and therefore gambling addiction probably cannot be completely prevented. If prevention and combating gambling addiction is a serious policy objective, my group believes that much more can be achieved than what is now foreseen. It is precisely the virtual character that allows people to play completely in anonymity that makes internet gambling very problematic. Once there is legalization, it is unlikely that this can be undone quickly. So far, my group is not convinced that this legislative proposal introduces an effective and workable system and fears that there is a significant degree of wishful thinking. It is in the good company of the Advisory Section of the Council of State, which also stated that the effectiveness and enforcement of the proposal had not been demonstrated, which further wondered whether the proposed means were not worse than the disease and advised the government at the time to reconsider the proposal. The Section also pointed out that the coherence of gambling policy with the introduction of this legislation was still lacking. In any case, my group can see that it is messing around here. The Dutch Lottery fears unfair competition from foreign providers who can use existing data for the Dutch online market. The Dutch Postcode Loterij feels disadvantaged compared to the Dutch Loterij, although something seems to be being done about this at the moment. The trotting and racing that has already been mentioned and which represents a long tradition in the Netherlands, fears because of breaking the existing equilibrium for its own survival. Potential national candidates for the casino business feel disadvantaged vis-à-vis Holland Casino and vis-à-vis wealthy foreign providers because of what they consider to be a flawed issue. On the part of foreign providers, the view of Dutch providers on the way in which online gambling is introduced is examined, namely the idea that foreign providers should first be kept out of the door for a while. Mr. Chairman. It is clear to my group that the proposals are not optimal from the point of view of coherence and clarity of positions. Nor is my group convinced at the moment of the usefulness and necessity of modernising the game casino regime, given the disadvantages. The chosen construction is curious in our eyes and the reasons for it are not clear to us either. My group therefore awaits with extraordinary interest the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u97	Thank you, Mrs Van Bijsterveld. I give the floor to Mr Knip.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u98	Madam President. Members of the VVD group thank the government for the answers to the questions on the legislative proposals concerning the revision of the game casino regime and the legalisation of games of chance via the Internet. Together with what has already been argued by the government in the explanations of the proposals, the VVD's picture of a radical and thoughtful change of course over the whole breadth of gaming legislation that has been badly needed for some time. Many hundreds of thousands of Dutch people have been gambling online with many illegal providers in the Netherlands for years, despite the legal ban. As has always been shown, a legal ban on online gambling, without sufficient opportunities to maintain it, is completely powerless. That is all the more the case when it comes to behaviors such as gambling that in themselves are not so wrong with their effects on society and in which few see real evil. Frits Bolkestein once said that when 100,000 people want something, you can't stop it and you shouldn't stop it. In this situation, the question arises as to what is the legal basis in a free society for such a desire for behavioural regulation. Of course, there can be good reasons to see a certain responsibility for the government, for example, as is the case here, in the need to combat addiction. But a legal ban will never be enough, because without enforcement, addiction will by definition not work. Madam President. These legislative proposals represent a fundamental change of direction in the influence of the government on human behaviour which is seen as less desirable or risky.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u99	Mr Knip has an eye for people's behaviour, for society and for what people want. And he says, "You can't stop it with a legal ban." But what if I made the comparison with our soft drug policy? You can also say that people use soft drugs and that there is a risk of addiction. However, a ban is maintained, including by your party. I don't know what reasons that is, but you could let go of this, too, that people do it anyway. Then you better legalize it and ensure that information is provided, that quality is monitored, etc. Can Mr Knip comment on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u100	That is the next paragraph of my speech, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u101	I feel so good too!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u102	May I continue my speech for a moment? If you'd like any clarification, I'd be delighted after that. As I said, these legislative proposals represent a fundamental change of direction in government influence on human behaviour which is seen as less desirable or even risky. The idea that behavior can be controlled with a simple ban is deliberately abandoned. The key word is now channeling individual behavior through tighter regulation on the supply side. It's not entirely new, by the way. When regulating the use of alcohol, especially an addictive product for those who cannot deal with it, we have never done otherwise. And not everyone will want to hear this, Mrs Strik, but the current policy of tolerance for soft drugs is an example of channeling. However, the choice there for criminal providers for the supply of coffeeshops cannot be defended, so there is still a lot to be done. That's what's coming, even in this house. Perhaps the next experiments will provide solutions for a defensible channelization. Mrs. Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u103	No, Mr. Cut! Mr. Knip!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u104	I think that's pretty daring, Mr. Cut.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u105	Yeah, this is pretty daring.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u106	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u107	Mrs. Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u108	I wouldn't take that chance. However, those are encouraging words from the VVD Group. Suppose the evaluation of the pilot would show that regulation might have good effects on health and the like. So the VVD Group would also like to consider abolishing this legal ban if necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u109	As you all know, there will soon be a law here on experimenting in treatment. I can tell you that the VVD is not against this. I'm kidding! But as I have said twice, it's just that a ban doesn't help. That's an illusion. You stick your head in the sand when you say we banned it, so it's all taken care of. That's not how society works. As a government, you have to ask yourself: do I want to regulate that, and if so, why do I want to do so, or do I have a certain obligation to do something to at least mitigate all sorts of nasty effects, or perhaps even to deal with them far-reachingly? So we come to addiction care, for example. That could be a good reason. Public order, and what's more, can be another good reason. But the fact that matter is by definition fluid is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u110	Finally. Of course, we have to approve the experiment first and it still has to be carried out, but if it shows such effects that it could be positive, then the VVD would like to take a follow-up step in lifting the ban, at least in regulating it? Is that how I understand it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u111	The VVD is relaxed in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u112	Continue to relax, Mr. Knip.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u113	Madam President. As mentioned above, the purpose of these legislative changes in favour of remote gambling is to create the conditions for an effective channeling of demand for legal providers, which are supervised by the Dutch Gaming Authority. This will also address the continuing risks of gambling addiction, fraud and money laundering in online gambling and will be controlled by good prevention and tight supervision. The bill on the adaptation of the casino regime for games of chance offered also brings the slot machines halls under the scope of the game casino regime. This is important because it applies the same rules to addiction prevention and the prevention and combating of fraud and money laundering in the casinos, slot machines and legal online providers. Madam President. As you can see, the VVD Group welcomes the content of these legislative proposals. Gambling behavior that many consider risky, or at least find debatable, is no longer criminalised. In view of its excesses, it is primarily seen as a matter of public health, of addiction care. Prevention is, of course, paramount, and that is a good thing. Mr. Chairman. However, I do not want to hide the fact that in my group we are looking at the so-called prevention ladder, a very complicated mechanism that is unprecedented in addiction countries. My group has questions about its proportionality, particularly in view of the relative importance of this: relatively small numbers of people who have risky gambling behaviour compared to the size of groups at risk when it comes to drugs and alcohol. In order to make my point clear, I have once transposed the prevention ladder of the bill to the visit to a café. I am not doing that to make the case ridiculous, but just to demonstrate how far the bill is going. "I enter the café, give my social security number, show my passport or driver's license, and state in my drinking profile that I don't want to drink more than three beers a night. A personal file is being created. The man behind the cupboard keeps a close eye on me and when I order my second beer, he sends me an e-mail that follows the second order very quickly on the first consumption."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u114	Are you sure it's not an app?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u115	I'm sure. But you will. "If I have missed the e-mail, then fortunately there is the mandatory pop-up in the law, which is something other than an app, I believe on my smartphone that warns me about my fast drinking behavior. In the prescribed manner, the man behind the cupboard also asks for attention in a friendly conversation. So I go into the delay with my drinking speed, but partly because of that I still feel like a fourth beer later in the evening, which is strictly denied to me in accordance with my drinking profile. Wheezing, praying and begging doesn't help. If I hold on too long, I am being given the possibility of being suspended voluntarily for six months, because I apparently show signs of addiction. Finally, when I start crying out of impotence, I am judged "addicted" and suspended against my will for six months. I am expected to be treated as such." Mr. Chairman. My group believes that this whole procedure goes a long way. This part of the bill is not merely patronizing; it is going to look like a total denial of the individual's own responsibility. Where exactly does the government see the legal basis for such a far-reaching intervention on the privacy of so many for the benefit of so few? Is the legal basis in the addiction threat for a relatively limited number of players, or is it still more in the fight against money laundering and fraud?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u116	In Mr Knip's example, he is at the end of the evening a tenner and a hangover richer, but in the example of addictions someone's life can be destroyed, his mortgage, everything. How does Mr. Knip weigh that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u117	You always have to take that into account, but that also applies to all other addictions. I will come to my specific question in a moment as to whether these prevention mechanisms, these ladders, might also be considered for other uses. "I don't think so," will be the answer. The question then is: why not there and here it is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u118	We do indeed see that the government sometimes regrets the fact that we may have thought too easily in the past: it is your own responsibility. The major health risks are also simply falling into the context of the VVD, but I will leave it to the VVD to make it economically what it costs us in terms of public health costs. That is where the social norm is now changing into "don't do it," "do it less," "moderately your behavior," while we are taking a step in the other direction. I am very happy to hear from the VVD that we may need to align the approach to addictions. That's fine, but how does the VVD judge it that we actually lower the social standard here, making it easier for people to gamble, while Mr Knip acknowledges with me that that would be worrying?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u119	I do not think this reasoning is valid. The situation isn't that we're making it easier. The situation is that there is a legal ban and that it does not work at all, because it concerns hundreds of thousands of people, the last estimate is 500,000 people, I believe, who do. As Mr Postema pointed out, the first group of young people of 15, 16 years old does it regularly. Isn't it a big deal to put your head in the sand? I won't say "head" in your case to say: if we only have a ban, then we have done our job? It's just not how it's done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u120	I understand that I cannot convince Mr Knip of a ban, even in view of his ideological beliefs. However, given the position he has expressed, I can imagine that you are indeed raising the age limit and that you are also daring to take measures to tackle the problems that he, like me, feels very badly about. He started with that example, so "it would be very funny if we put in such a prevention ladder when we drink beers." But then he came to the serious point that we really need to fight these addictions. Does he think that the law is sufficient, or does he want to see with me whether there would be anything more needed, for example for young people?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u121	Of course. It will probably take a little more time for young people than for adults. You mentioned my belief in life, but I also think that it is more obvious for the state to want to protect young people than to protect adults. That's a good thing. I'm not saying never do it. I also said at the beginning of my speech that the desire to combat addiction can, of course, be a very important reason for regulation. We are in complete agreement on that. What I wanted to report here is this. I made it very clear that I also mean it seriously and that I am not saying it in order to be ridiculous. However, we need to realise: how far are we going with this? Of course, we are willing to go far with each other and the VVD will not abstain from voting on this bill. But I thought it was necessary to ring the bell for a while in the sense of: yes, there are now very easily all kinds of ladders, with the idea "we have everything arranged." But even then, we will not have arranged everything in terms of success. But you may have gone very far in regulating every person who wants to be involved in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u122	I have only one question for Mr Knip, who gave a fantastic example and gave a colourful account of what this gambling policy would mean if we did it in the pub. How real does Mr Knip think that when he leaves the pub begging and crying because the fourth beer fails, he gets sucked on his shoulders outside and someone says to him: I have another beer for you, but you pay a tenner for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u123	It could be. I told you, not all behavior can be regulated, so that beer will keep coming and there will always be means to find it. But you understand the meaning of my speech; that is what you have said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u124	Let's get back to your example. I got my catering papers once on a gray Monday. If you had come to me, you wouldn't have been addressed after the first beer, but perhaps after the fifth or sixth. Because that's how we arranged it. Whoever's behind the tap is being held to ensure that his clients don't leave the business horizontally. So there is a substantial and big difference in whether you do that physically or only with a song online. Do you see that difference?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u125	There is, of course, that difference, and I am glad that Mr Dercksen is saying this, because the example of the current regime in the Drinking and Horeca Act has been taken from my heart. In it, a very clear responsibility has been placed on the operator. That's what it's gonna be. Maybe a little late sometimes, but he's kept to it. You won't be able to apply that, physically, you rightly say, in this situation. There will indeed have to be a mechanism for this. I also said that we are not opposed to this proposal on this point. I would just like to draw attention to the very far-reaching mechanism that has now been designed. I think it was Mrs Van Bijsterveld who said: I can't just give that bsn number to someone else, but here it is just... Then I think: that's all very easy that way. That's the point I wanted to make. We also need to be careful that we, as legislators, are not going to take care of things by foot for everyone, every man or woman. That's my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u126	Mr Knip is indeed touching on a very interesting point. I understand that a player is indeed very fond of such a patronizing prevention ladder. But that prevention ladder is, of course, at the heart of the legislative proposal to achieve that degree of channelisation. My group's concern was that people might not want to go through that and that they would simply go to all those other providers, who are just there online and whose chances of getting caught are very small. I am actually asking Mr Knip: does he see that as my group sees it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u127	Then I have a counter-question. Does Mrs Van Bijsterveld actually say that she thinks that this prevention ladder is going a little too far?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u128	The fact that I raised this in my speech is because we doubt that the channeling to online legal gambling is so effective. Because it is of course much easier at some point to gamble on any other site.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u129	Well, that'll tell time. I can't see that either. I will continue with my speech. I can skip a little bit, because it's already been changed here at the interruptions. I asked: can the Minister indicate how things will be with regard to other people's addictions in the near future? Are we, as a government, going to go further into the regulation of behavior? Another aspect of this is the fact that this prevention ladder is a reality. Does the government agree with the VVD Group that it creates a legally relevant duty of care for the online gambling provider? That's a bit of an extension, with some imagination, of the café owner who only intervenes after five beers. First of all, is this a duty of care? I think that is entirely the case. But to what extent does this have consequences for the legal liability of the provider of these games of chance and for the material damage in which not all steps of the ladder are followed punctually and thus the player might become addicted? I look forward to the Minister's reply on this point. Mr. Chairman. The previously asked privacy question brings me naturally to the relationship in scope between this bill and the newly implemented General Data Protection Regulation. Under that Regulation, the village football association may not yet place its members on a membership list without the consent of each member individually. Does the marketing authorisation holder first apply to the prospective player for authorisation to register? Or do I ask, I think, to the well-known road without ticking the box in question, does he just not check the website? The Minister states in the note following the report that both the Gaming Authority, the Ksa, and the MAH are held to the safeguards arising from the GDPR Implementing Act. Formally, that will be true, but how does it relate to the contacts that the licence holder, or the Gaming Authority, gets with anxious relatives and friends of certain players who report to them? Does the privacy protection of the GDPR not also apply to family members, let alone meddling relatives, or friends and self-appointed friends? What about the worried only inheriting second cousin I never speak to? Will he be talking about me as an interested party? On the basis of what legal provision or derogation can we see these exceptions in the legislative proposal? The VVD Group would like the Minister's answer on these questions, because they are quite essential to us. Finally, there is another question concerning data management and use, namely the explanation of the Kooiman amendment. Mr Dercksen has also pointed this out. With this amendment, the KOA bill has been adapted so that customer files belonging to one game of chance may not be used for recruitment and advertising of or for games of chance with, for example, greater game risks. There has been some concern about the interpretation of this in the lottery sector. Should accounts of players playing via e-commerce with existing toto- and totalizer licence holders be destroyed? What does that mean for these players, who most likely want to continue playing with the trusted offer? So far, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u130	Thank you, Mr. Cut. I give the floor to Mrs Strik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u131	Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing two legislative proposals aimed at a major revision of Dutch gambling policy. The emergence of the Internet has made participation in remote gaming increasingly accessible. Online gambling is available day and night, social control is completely lacking, and virtual money is being played. The risk of gambling addiction is high because of this. A very recent study by Motivaction commissioned by Holland Casino shows that 1.8 million Dutch people sometimes, I say with emphasis online for payment gambling. That is sometimes, but it is an increase of 20% compared to 2016. Although these figures do not yet say anything about the extent of structural use of online gambling in this respect, rather worrying figures have already been exchanged in the past, the increase in the number of gamblers and their exposure to the dangers of gambling addiction and sometimes even criminality, makes it worrying that remote gambling has so far been free to go. An important question before us today is what the government can do to reduce these risks. My group supports the objective of the first of the legislative proposals we are discussing today: the Distance Gaming Act. This objective is to prevent addiction and protect consumers from gambling-related crime. However, my group is curious about the reason why this cabinet supports the legalisation of an addiction-sensitive game, while Mr Knip and I have just been talking about the legalisation of drug trafficking, for example, is still surrounded by a lot of taboos. Here, too, there is the argument that legalisation can reduce the damage by monitoring the quality of supply and better information. I'd like a response from the Minister. The Minister believes, I read in his reply, that the proposed legalisation in this bill can be implemented without social damage, unlike other illegal activities such as drug trafficking. Can the Minister explain this position further? Thus, while we support the objectives, we are not yet convinced of their achievement, in particular because of great uncertainties about the feasibility and enforcement of this bill. That is an essential point for us. The question is whether legalisation will not do more harm than good if this law does not lead to a reduction in addiction and consumer protection. With legalisation, the legislator is nevertheless taking a step towards the identification and standardisation of remote gambling. Our input today is aimed at getting that clarity. In my speech, therefore, I will discuss the feasibility and enforcement of the COA legislative proposal. I then deal in conjunction with the desirability of the modernisation of the game casino regime bill. An important negative incentive for legalisation can, of course, be that illegal providers face severe fines. However, this legislative proposal does not seem to reduce the inherent complexity of the fight against illegal online gambling providers. In fact, the question is whether enforcement will become even more complex, now that illegal companies need to be dealt with on the one hand, and on the other hand legal companies need to examine their compliance with the conditions. The licensing system could allow a more targeted approach to the remaining illegal offer. However, this requires an adequate toolbox for the Gaming Authority, both in terms of powers and capacity. Currently, providers such as Orange Casino and Kroon Casino are allowed to operate without a licence on the Dutch market based in Malta and Unibet, which is based in Sweden. Persecution is difficult because gaming authorities in those countries often do not feel responsible for the cross-border use of the permits they issue. In addition, they do not want to lose the tax advantages. Does the present legislative proposal offer sufficient tools to deal with foreign suppliers in an appropriate manner? A recent study carried out by the European Commission on the enforcement of rules on online gambling reveals as one of the major bottlenecks that authorities have no jurisdiction and enforcement across borders. This requires at least closer international cooperation on information exchange and the imposition of criminal or administrative sanctions. Does the Minister recognise this and how it is being worked on, what is the Dutch commitment? Are Member States competitors rather than allies of each other, including in order to protect their tax revenues? If illegal providers are located outside the EEA, the question is even more how effective national surveillance and enforcement can be. Blockages of internet or payment traffic via a compelling indication to web hosts can also be avoided or bypassed and are never 100%. So really disappearing will not make the illegal and potentially criminal offer, even because this illegal offer is often more attractive and more accessible, and people can play anonymously. This bill makes it more difficult at most to reach this offer. Does the Minister agree, and if so, is he satisfied with that? Moreover, the intended degree of channelisation can only be achieved after a few years. Does this mean, in essence, that in the meantime the Gaming Authority is still powerless compared to the massive illegal offer? Can the Minister indicate the minimum level of channelisation for an effective approach to illegal supply by the Gaming Authority? And how does this problem relate to the other side of the bill, namely the identity of remote gambling? That is probably going to draw more people to participate. Is it possible to find out to what extent legalisation might promote participation in remote gambling? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. My group continues to struggle with the question of whether it is possible to combat illegal gambling and prevention policies even without legalising remote gambling. Have we not left too much behind in the past, and do we necessarily need everything, including legalization, to combat the dangers of addiction? I hope the Minister will agree to that. My group also has concerns about the tension between the intended level of channeling and the possibility of sanctioning large players in the online gambling market. This may affect the enforcement of the requirements imposed by the Gaming Authority on legal providers. If large players such as Unibet are sanctioned, then the basis for opening up the online gambling market is almost gone. So how credible is it to threaten the big players with the withdrawal of a licence? This is all the more pressing as the legal stamina of these parties can make effective enforcement even more difficult. The point is: if you cannot maintain or maintain the conditions, how long will they be respected? In Sweden, the gambling authority has already issued several warnings that have so far been ignored by legal gambling providers. For example, promotional material was sent to people who are registered in the Swedish equivalent of the CRUKS, and registered people could also continue playing. Can such a situation occur in the Netherlands? And if so, how are participants protected from the possible consequences of non-compliance by providers of legal remote gambling? I'd like a response from the Minister. In addition, my group sees a tension between the economic interests of remote legal gambling providers and the prevention of addiction. It is precisely the people who have to be protected that can be important for sales. This is problematic, given the profit motive of foreign entrants to a legal offer in online gambling. Unlike Holland Casino's relatively strong country-based prevention policy, most major gambling websites do not release figures or statistics on the number of players excluded, for example. Without sufficient safeguards for enforcement and prevention, it is difficult to determine whether a sound addiction prevention policy exists only in theory or is actually being implemented. Of course, the requirement for providers to appoint a contact person for addiction prevention in the Netherlands is not sufficient to enforce this. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Where we still have many questions and doubts about the above-mentioned KOA bill, the modernisation of the game casino regime has fundamental reservations. The main justification for the privatisation of Holland Casino is that the government does not regard offering land-based gambling as a public task. On the other hand, public care obligations are not privatised: according to the government, public interests are adequately safeguarded by the legislative proposal. In my group's view, however, this point has not yet been sufficiently substantiated. Again, there is a risk of tension between the commercial interests of competitors of Holland Casino and the overall quality of addiction prevention. Does the Minister also see the risk that competition could undermine Holland Casino's addiction prevention policy? After all, customers who would have been addressed to their gambling behaviour in Holland Casino can simply choose to go to a competitive location. However good the competitor's addiction prevention policy may be, there is no central monitoring of the problem gambler in this way. I'd like a response from the Minister. Allowing competition on the casino market may have negative consequences for participants in land-based gambling. For example, with the monopoly position of Holland Casino there was a clear distinction between game casinos and games halls. Clarity about the difference between these two terms is important for participants. For example, games halls are not allowed to offer live-betting, and there is a maximum loss of hours on their vending machines of €40. These limits do not exist in Holland Casino, and the margins between profit and loss are significantly larger. This entails risks for participants which are increasingly difficult to distinguish by competition in the casino market. How does the Minister see the importance of brand recognition for the security of participants in land-based games of chance? How are players protected against a higher maximum loss of hours, while they may be under the assumption that they play in the protected environment of a gambling hall? Is such a tension not also between the intended channeling through regional distribution and the creation of competition? Is it not true that regional distribution is better secured under a monopoly, because the motive for profit is the deciding factor? This prevents regional clustering of casino sites and the potential undesirable effects of intensified competition and advertising. Does the Minister consider that regional distribution and competition in the current form of the bill are compatible? And what does that tell us? Finally, the Minister previously undertook to allow the entry into force of the Modernisation Act to take place six months after the period for the submission of licences for legal games of chance at a distance. How did the Minister reach this deadline? Is it not much more sensible, given the far-reaching nature of these measures, to allow them to be addressed only after the initial findings of the Remote Gaming Act have been evaluated and discussed? Mr President, I shall conclude. My group shares the concern about the extent and risks of online gambling. We think it is important for the government to do everything in its power to protect consumers from addiction risks and crime. At the same time, we have doubts as to whether regulation - at least with this bill - can have this effect, especially in an industry where companies do not suffer from national borders. In fact, where they benefit from the territorial restrictions imposed by national supervision and enforcement. If illegality cannot be avoided in any way, do we not, with regulation, add a market rather than linking the current market to conditions? And, especially in view of all these uncertainties, is it not extremely undesirable to give the current grip we have on the game casino regime to the free market? On all these points, my group has its reservations and doubts, and we are waiting for the Minister to answer them. I would have said here that I do not want to gamble until then, but that has been said so many times here that I would like to change it to the point that my group does not immediately bet on a positive outcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u132	That's a hell of a comment, I have to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u133	Much more original!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u134	Yes, thank you, Mrs. Strik. I give the floor to Mr Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Predicting the outcome of this debate, which could be on the aaaasport.com website, where you can also bet on the results of the upcoming Danish elections, the question of who will be the Democratic presidential candidate for the American presidential election, I'm betting on Cory Booker and who will be the Republican candidate; I'm betting on Donald Trump. Anything that is uncertain can be gambled, now also in the privacy of your own private environment, on your own smartphone, your computer or your tablet. No one who interferes with how much you wager, no one who cares that you lose, and if you win once, chances are you're gonna turn that profit back into loss, hoping for bigger profits. The Dutch government is committed to making remote gambling possible, with enhanced supervision as a risk reduction. One does not need to be an initiate in the gambling world to know that that is not going to work. The cabinet has also built up a wonderful reasoning about this. At the moment, illegal online gambling runs out so much that there is no enforcement. Enforcement capacity is a tricky thing since the Dutch government has been committed to self-regulation on all fronts, but in this case a very remarkable consideration follows: if we legalize online gambling, we can use the limited enforcement capacity on the remaining illegal gambling activities. Explain a part of what we now find undesirable, legal and the illegality to be combated becomes more clearly, is the thesis, the outcome of which is considered extremely uncertain by experts. We are supposed to be in this house watching over the enforcement. The aspect we are dealing with is a phenomenon such as gambling addiction should give us cause for extreme caution. According to Professor Arie Dijkstra of the University of Groningen, the possibility of gambling addiction is considerably increased by the new law, greater than becoming addicted to physical gambling in a gambling hall. According to Dijkstra, this has several reasons, and I quote: "Online you have technical possibilities. They can accurately connect to the user's wishes at the milliseconds. Besides, you miss a social structure when you're gambling on your own. No one can see that you're angry when you lose and nobody can see that you're playing too much again. You're not being redirected." That's what Bas Bronze said, addiction therapist last week in EenVandaag. He sees more and more young people who are addicted to online gambling in his treatment room. Quote from the broadcast: "Many youngsters of the Internet generation discover this form of gambling. That often starts quite innocently, but when they get to us, they're all jammed up. The memory of the money won lingers, but they also forget that they lost money. They won't be able to stop." Professor Dijkstra sees nothing in the legalization of online gambling. I quote: "The symbol that something is legal also means that many good citizens think: now it is allowed by the government. That would remove a threshold for many people. I predict that more people will come into contact with online gambling and underneath will be new gambling addicts." The question for the seasoned gambler is whether this debate is fixed in advance or open-ended. Gambling is weighing odds, including the chance of match fixing. In the Lower House this law was passed, with the votes of the Party of Labour, GroenLinks, D66, Van Vliet, Klein, the Group Kuzu/Öztürk, Houwers, the VVD, the Group Bontes/Van Klaveren and the PVV. But the initiated gambler knows that the PvdA was in the coalition then and the CDA and the Christian Union did not, and that the OSV is not represented in the Lower House and in this house. So it's a mix of apparent insecurities. The DutchCowboys team bet that the law almost certainly gets through it. The cabinet has already entered the bear's skin, despite the fact that it knows that there are groups in this house that do not want the bear to be shot at at all, including my group, which will not surprise you. The analysis of DutchCowboys reads as follows. In the 2019 National Budget, we see the budgetary consequences of the legalisation of remote gambling. Only gambling tax on sports betting is assumed to be 6 million in additional tax revenue by 2020. From 2021 onwards, 12 million should enter annually. Other casino games such as bingo, blackjack, roulette or poker have not yet been included. If the calculated budget would not be released, it is almost always problematic for the Minister. The gap should then be closed by cutting back or transferring budget from other pots. That process is difficult and time-consuming, so it is significant that the cabinet bet that it will work out with the agreement of the First Chamber. A bet of 6 million taxpayers' money in 2020 and 12 million in 2021 is a firm bet even in the casino world. Online gambling is a growing market in the Netherlands, from 1.5 million online gamblers in 2016 to 1.8 million at the end of 2018. Every year, the Dutch government loses up to 175 million in gambling tax revenues. The tax liability for both land-based providers and remote providers shifts from player to provider. Suppliers will have to pay a 29% tax on the so-called gross playing result, which is the difference between received deposits and paid prices. In the current system, the player is still the taxpayer for other games of chance such as sports betting and contests. However, gambling tax is only levied from prices above €449, which makes it attractive to introduce more low-threshold, small-scale gambling games, with all the risks involved. Tax-free gambling will become possible for more players, including young players. This is particularly true when the new legalized gambling opportunities will attract potential players with large-scale advertising campaigns. Several previous speakers have mentioned this. Despite the possibility of tax-free gambling for small players, more tax revenues will be generated on balance because the gambler makes less profit than the gambler, the bank always wins and the legalized Dutch gambler is easier to trace than the gambler doing business with an illegal foreign gambler. The latter is not or hardly traceable by the Dutch government with the current enforcement capacity, according to the government. In the argument of the Dutch government, the emphasis is on "rien ne va plus" to pull members of this house over the line to take the chance, while in fact a carte blanche is asked for "faites vos jeux": go ahead, whatever comes of it. Mr. Chairman. We should not focus on enforcement, but on extending the opportunities for online gambling. It is estimated that the total online gambling industry is currently worth $46.7 billion, and this amount is going to grow unprecedentedly over the coming period. Experts expect that the value of the online gambling industry will be about twice as high by 2025 and that the 100 billion will soon come into sight. This has to do with the legalisation of online gambling in different countries, including the Netherlands, and with the growing number of players in the countries that already have a legal framework. The legislative proposals before us today will not contribute to reducing gambling and gambling addiction, but will increase the problem. The question remains whether we will be faced with match fixing or a free vote next week in the game of "sitting and getting up." During the debate on integrity in this house last week, we saw the Minister for Legal Protection and his officials having intrusive talks with senators of coalition parties. I do not know what they were talking about, but I dare to venture the small guess that today's debate might have been on the agenda as well. Chance calculation depends on several factors, but when the current coalition parties CDA and ChristianUnion stick to the voting behaviour in the House of Representatives, from the period they were not yet in the government, and the Labour Party, freeing itself from the responsibility for coalition agreements, feels free to make their own considerations, there is a real chance that both laws will not make it. Chance games are in the current coalition chord, but are not cast in iron and concrete. The coalition agreement Trust in the future includes the following agreements on gambling policy. When granting licences for gambling on the Internet, it will be included as a permit condition that the provider is also established in any way in the Netherlands. When implementing gaming policies, particular attention will be paid to reducing gambling addiction and the existing possibilities for paying to sports and charities will not be affected. You can see that these principles are already outdated. We know that setting up only in the Netherlands cannot be a condition. We know that the payment to sports and charities is affected. Then it's hard to hold on to such an agreement, isn't it? That should give the coalition partners all the freedom to deviate from it, I would think. The question is, by the way, what is meant by 'in any way established in the Netherlands', given that it is unlikely to even be maintained. But, for example, does this include only the European part of the Kingdom, or does it include the warmer parts of our country? And do countries like Malta, Hungary or Romania, for example, also have the opportunity to set up your gambling business? And how does the cabinet plan to collect taxes and maintain supervision there? How is it monitored that the particular attention paid to reducing gambling addiction results? What are the government's goals? I am also curious, in particular, to see what feasible targets could be applied in those other European countries where gambling companies could settle if they were to focus on the Netherlands. Today's question is how free ChristianUnion and CDA feel to block the expansion of online gambling right now. According to the letter of the government agreement, they are not obliged to agree, but the proceeds of their expected agreement have already been entered into the next year's budget. The cabinet will not really appreciate a vote against, but in the context of dualism and assuming that there is no match fixing on this subject, it could get exciting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u136	I hear a lot of predictive values for those who would like to gamble on how this debate will end, but I would like to inform Mr Koffeman that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is something different from a Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. The signature of the Dutch Parliamentary Group is subject to a coalition agreement. I am now missing that element in Mr Koffeman's reflection. I would then like to give him encouragement, for the sake of improvement and for the sake of increasing his commitment, which applies to the Christian Union Group, that we naturally take into account what our House of Representatives is doing, but that we are not a stamp machine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u137	I understand that very well. I also expressed the hope that dualism will be able to overcome. And, of course, the Christian Union Group will not by definition vote the same as the Lower House Group did. But I also hope that the Christian Union will not vote the same as the coalition parties, but will make a stand-alone assessment. Mr. Chairman. Money that's stupid makes right what's crooked. But making money on the backs of gambling addicts and legitizing with a lack of enforcement capacity to counter illegal gambling is too crooked for words as far as my group is concerned. Although there is not yet a lobby register in this house, it is clear that the lobby of the big money involved in the gambling industry is more intense than the lobby on many other issues that are discussed here. As far as my group is concerned, efforts to ensure adequate enforcement are by far preferable to efforts to increase gambling opportunities. We don't believe in remote gambling, but under the guidance of a government that looks on at the same time. We say "rien ne va plus." And we very much hope that there will be a majority in this House for that position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-6.u138	Thank you, Mr. Coffeeman. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case.
