ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u1	The next item is the debate on errors of assessment by the authorities in the supervision of the culprit of the metro murder.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u2	I welcome the Minister for Legal Protection and the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport and, of course, everyone in the public gallery. I give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg, on behalf of the CDA and applicant for this debate, as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here we are again. Again, we must talk about the horrific death of any victim committed by someone who has escaped the ggz and the justice system. Although, I do say "grab," but it was actually a weak hand. And again we debate in the presence of the family. The family of Joost Wolters, the young man who was brutally killed on the metro in Amsterdam by a completely insane Philip O. Around horrible. The next of kin are not only in our house, they are also in our hearts and in our minds. They motivate us to try to make a difference for the future. The inspection report, which contains a detailed description of what has gone wrong in the past, is quite unheard of. I'm gonna take out the biggest misses. Philip O. appears to have been imposed on a PIJ that he did not undergo; he could easily go from the Netherlands to Ghana, England and back to the Netherlands, without noticing that they were dealing with a dangerous mentally disturbed man who belonged in a closed institution. Even now, the PI Vught did not have her affairs in order, the proper treatment was not used and it became an embarrassing stooge about secrecy and responsibilities, once Philip got into the AMC. A half-hearted treatment followed and a man who was paroled could commit a crime with his BOPZ title without being returned to detention. No, Mr. Chairman, the padding and the wetting continued until that fatal summer day when Philip O. takes the life of Joost Wolters. If we read the letter from the rulers, a great deal of what has tragically happened here could not happen again. The information sharing seems to be in order by now, more careful scrutiny is being carried out and the direction between Justice and care has been put in order. You'd almost ask what we're still doing here. But we're not reassured. We have not forgotten that in 2015 the Public Prosecutor also claimed to have learned from everything that had happened following the murder of Els Borst. But on what basis can we say that? The inspection does not supervise the Public Prosecutor's Office at all and therefore does not even come forward with recommendations as far as the Public Prosecutor is concerned. That's weird, isn't it? I'd like a reaction to that. And how do we know that from now on, in all cases, there will be a record of whether someone has been punished or treated? When I read that this information is complete and reliable from now on, does this mean that the prosecution can no longer decide that it may not be appropriate? On page 47 of the inspection report, it says that if a civil measure is imposed during a vi, it is not mandatory, even if it is not even customary, that a case officer and the BOPZ officer are in contact with each other. Is that gonna be fixed now? It is not a recommendation, strictly speaking, because, as I have already said, the inspection is not about the State's Attorney's Office, but it has to be arranged. And how is it even arranged that someone who has entered the regular ggz will be transferred to the Justice Department in a serious misstep? The information sharing between forensic care and justice seems to be in order, but what about the regular ggz and justice? It appears to be problematic that Article 15c of the Code of Criminal Law is ultimately to bring someone who is in the ggz during a probationary period into a judicial establishment, because his freedom has actually already been taken away from him. Will the Minister amend this provision? Or how else does he ensure that the Public Prosecutor can react directly as soon as something serious happens in an institution? But, Mr. Chairman, something else. Why does the ggz keep hiding behind the professional secrecy? We have not yet fully understood the report of the Health and Youth Inspectorate, but we do have our sources. That is why I ask the rulers if we really know why Philip O. received a detention order on 9 May 2017. According to the inspection report, page 46, it happened because he was worse. He would have threatened his mother three days earlier. But there would be no more aggression. That's why the police weren't called in. Then how come we read in a roundtable report from the AMC that Philip O. threatened not only his mother at the GGD's outpatient clinic on May 9th, but also an employee of the GGD with a knife? That's what the police came up with. According to that report, he was transferred to the AMC in a psychosis. What do you mean, no aggression? If we don't even know exactly what happened here, how can we learn from this? Finally, Mr President, victim care. Suddenly this was also investigated, to surprise the Victim Help Netherlands, to surprise the next of kin. Let me put it very harshly here: it was gossip. There's been a report of a conversation. That wasn't about anything. There's been another raging attempt to make a report out of something. Eventually they said with shame on the jaws that it might only become an addendum and it then left the report. Mr. Chairman. How can a government set up to protect people fail like that? Failure in the execution of punishments, failure in the sharing of information, failure in actually treating and securing someone when it is necessary and even failure in guiding and caring for relatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u4	I will come back to what Mrs Van Toorenburg was talking about at the beginning. She mentioned twice the point that the inspection does not supervise the Public Prosecutor's Office and then said that it should be arranged or something like that. Can she explain that? What does she mean by that? Should we have the Department of Justice and Security oversee the D.A.'s office? Is that her proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u5	I think that's a good start. If the inspection in a serious situation can see something completely, apparently the GGZ can look at some of its partners, at least DJI, then she should also be able to put her teeth in the Public Prosecutor's Office. I know there's some kind of oversight of the D.A.'s office. That's the Attorney General. There is also some monitoring of the implementation of cases. That's what the judge does. But we have an inspection looking at abuses in that chain. Then I think it's important that she can also bite herself in the state's attorney's office. Then we know what went wrong here. Only then can we learn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u6	Thank you for that clarification, because of course it is quite something. We have all that Attorney General at the Supreme Court. Of course, it really has an independent position, while the Justice and Security Inspectorate sits in the Ministry. He's a lot closer to that ministry. So that also affects the relationship between the ministry and the state's attorney's office. I understand very well where the question comes from, especially in view of how this has been done here, but does Mrs Van Toorenburg share with me that this raises very important questions about the independent position of the prosecutor vis-à-vis the ministry where the same inspection is located?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u7	That inspection also oversees DJI. He also has his head office at the Ministry. I don't think that's the big deal. When I look at the inspection, I think it happens independently enough. I hesitate to think of something else which means extra inspection again, while we already have an inspection that can do the whole chain right. We will, of course, be discussing it next week, I understand, when we talk about the report of the Fox Commission. So we need to talk about how someone is going to effectively supervise the Public Prosecutor's Office. This must also be done with regard to victim care. I would like to say a few words about this very briefly. The state's attorney had a conversation with next of kin and got it in his head to talk about mismatches in what happened. If you can still do that, you're really gonna hit next of kin again. I find it very distressing that we have had to learn that this has happened again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u8	I am very pleased with Mrs Van Toorenburg's contribution. At the end of the debate, she pointed out the transfer of information between the authorities concerned, judicially, but also in the supervision, in the care sector. That is something we also saw during the debate we had at the beginning of April on Michael P's sad murder. I then tabled a motion asking the government to come up with a plan to ensure that the information is properly shared, that the authorities have crucial information. That was not supported by Mrs Van Toorenburg. Why not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u9	Because at that time, with respect to forensic care, that was an unnecessary motion. The letter from the cabinet shows that a number of steps have been taken on these three points, particularly with regard to the sharing of information. This is about the revision of criminal decisions, about that more careful review laid down in the new legislation on penalties and protection, and about a clear direction in relation to forced withdrawals. Anne Faber was all about forensic care. That's where this is taken care of. What we have now seen from the inspection, again, is that shooter stuff from the Health and Youth Inspectorate is that there is ultimately no proper transfer between regular care and justice. That's what came out of this report one more time. That is why we are now calling on the cabinet to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u10	It is a long answer to come to the same conclusion, namely a problem with the transfer of information. The authorities concerned did not have any information available to them as to how dangerous Philip O. was in order to properly assess the risk. With my motion, I asked the Cabinet to come up with a plan. I think you're doing something good with that. But I now understand from Mrs Van Toorenburg that there is something else going on. What's fundamentally different here? Here too, the authorities worked alongside each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u11	No, it's two different things, and that's the frustrating thing. A lot of people looking at this will think: how can we first have Anne Faber in which there was no cooperation and now this situation with Joost? But that is about two worlds, the forensic chain, which we talked about last time and for which the plans have now been worked out and which we will also check the cabinet and see where it can improve, and the regular ggz. What's going on here? If a person who has committed a terrible crime has been released on parole and in the regular, the normal, the normal ggz "normal" has a bit of a crazy word "crime" and there commits a crime, he cannot simply go to prison about it, but one cannot simply share information. There is another problem and that is what we are discussing with the cabinet today. So that's not about a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u12	Let's get back to that supervision of the D.A.'s office. It's like there's no supervision of the D.A.'s office, but of course there is. First of all, there are dozens of directors and thousands of people working there. It's an organization that wasn't built yesterday, but it's been around for a very long time. Of course, we have two ministers in this ministry. The CDA, your party, has itself insisted that the CDA should take responsibility for the ministry, after years of being plagued by the VVD. Minister Dekker is here and we have your own CDA minister, not mine, but of course he is Minister in the Netherlands, but he is from the CDA house, and we both oversee that OM in the end. At least that's what they're supposed to do. Why do we all have to pretend like there's no supervision of that Public Prosecutor's Office, when the CDA Minister and the VVD Minister, two heavy boys in that ministry, just have to supervise that Public Prosecutor's Office and didn't do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u13	That's a good question, because now I can clarify it. We have leadership, which Mr Markuszower rightly speaks of, and we have ministerial responsibility. What matters is that we have an inspection to see if an organisation actually does what it needs to do at crucial moments. Before that, as a chamber, we invented an inspection with each other. That inspection can go anywhere, but oddly enough, it's not in the D.A.'s office. The D.A. can do whatever it wants throughout that chain, and we still don't know why the D.A., when Philip O. gruesomely ransacked at the G.G.D., didn't go over to say "he has to go back to justice." On top of that, Markuszower criticized it earlier, which is why it often takes a very long time before anyone actually comes back to justice. We have agreed on this, but it is not happening. But there's no one to oversee that. Does it happen the moment someone committed a crime? Is the state's attorney going to work to make sure he gets into a closed facility?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u14	In my view, one of the problems is that these teeth should not come from the inspection and that the solution cannot therefore be that the inspection should be given a greater role in the Public Prosecutor's Office. That is always good, but the real teeth should have come from the ministers. That is not just ministerial responsibility, because that is paper. Ministers are working, aren't they? They get paid to be at work and part of the job are their teeth, teeth on a non-running, non-functioning organization. The real problem in this case and in all the cases that we have already discussed, is not that move to that care. Of course that is a problem, but it should not have been a problem, because the solution must be that they remain in the hands of justice. The problem is that justice always pushes them to that care side, also something your party always argues for. So the solution must not be sought in care, we must first build a chain of justice that captures and holds those prisoners and criminals. I hope that today's debate will not focus on Secretary of State Blokhuis and that we will talk about all the problems in this care sector with those offenders. That shouldn't be the focus. The focus must be the pain point here, namely the failure of justice. The D.A. has failed, so we shouldn't skip those steps and go straight to that care side. There is also a lot wrong, but there is not the pain in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u15	I would also like me to be able to put it simply, namely that it is his or his fault. But it's not that easy in this case. Here you can see that someone was sentenced to justice, but they weren't served. You can see the D.A.'s office failed in that, along with D.J.I. We still don't know who exactly, but well, somewhere in that chain, there's no way of getting that sentence served. Then someone comes back, even if he's rad insane. He ends up in a care setting, commits a crime and is not brought back. So, yeah, you know, we could say "it doesn't matter if it's care," but it does matter here. Once someone gets into care and commits a crime, it can't be that he's not being arrested for being imprisoned. We have to observe with each other that the horrible thing is that this man committed a crime, ended up in the AMC but then did not end up in the courts. If he had gotten to justice and served his sentence there, he would have been inside the walls of justice at the time Joost was on the subway.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u16	Thank you, Mrs Van Toorenburg. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u17	Mr. Chairman. Joost's family has carefully expunged all available information on his tragic death. All his final steps, as far as they could, have been mapped out, just like his killer, Philip O. That very precisely want to know what, how, where and when I recognize. I see that with more relatives who have lost their child, parent, mother or loved one, perhaps because that's the last thing you can do, perhaps because you can understand something that will never make sense, perhaps because you're looking for a shaky hold in an unstoppable nightmare. However bad it must be to realize that precisely the lack of information or not sharing information has been so crucial for the fact that Joost was murdered at all and that his murder could have been prevented, no matter how harsh these words are. Because the risks were known. The information was known, but nothing was done with it. There was another childhood tbs. It was imposed but not implemented. In fact, all the bodies that need to be involved in keeping society safe have failed here. In fact, here we see in general the same mistakes that were made in the murders of Anne Faber and Els Borst. They are therefore not horrible incidents, but structural errors. After this tragic event, the Minister, the Cabinet, has taken or announced a number of improvements. I want to know from the Minister whether, with an unpleasant word, we have the leak upstairs. Have these individual atrocities been sufficiently linked? Have they been placed next to each other and have we really learned structural lessons from that? Is what the cabinet has now proposed also going to provide sufficient relief? After all, in Philip O.'s case, all the information was available, but not sufficiently shared and did not cooperate sufficiently. How do we prevent us from believing in a system reality? Is there going to be one person who is ultimately responsible for ensuring that whatever systems prescribe is actually going to happen? Mr. Chairman. There are also very specific questions raised by Mrs Van Toorenburg, among others. Does the ggz have access to information like we do for the forensic care and justice? What about professional secrecy? Does that remain a threshold for sharing information properly? These are all relevant issues which I think need clarification. Mr. Chairman. Another vulnerability concerns the long waiting lists. This is also outlined in the letter by the Cabinet. As a condition for his parole, Philip O. had to undergo treatment, but there was a waiting list of five months. Those waiting lists are still there. Are there more people out there like Philip O. who are actually waiting for treatment, but who aren't getting it because there are still waiting lists? I want to know from the Secretary of State... The whole ggz is under pressure. There aren't enough treatment sites. There aren't enough people. They're gonna turn that in themselves. Market forces create fragmentation rather than cooperation. How are we gonna do that? Mr. Chairman. You can look with satisfaction at the measures announced, but at the same time we have to conclude that there is still no sufficient self-reflective capacity of all the different bodies. No agency dares say "sorry." No body, at least not the State's Attorney's Office, entered into the conversation in good time, in this case with the Wolters family. It has been said all the time: "John, shut up. Don't be too open about what we've shared here." My question to the cabinet is: what is that, such a strange culture of not wanting to be transparent, not wanting to be open? What do you have to hide? Shouldn't we open up all the shutters and put next of kin in the way, because we all want the same thing: a better system? I'd like a response from the Minister in this case. Why can't the D.A. just be placed under the supervision of the inspection? It seems perfectly normal for you to look at the role of the D.A.'s office in the event of a serious incident. Is the Minister prepared to do so? Mr. Chairman. Now that all the pieces of information surrounding Joost's death have gradually been given a place, the bitter reality remains that what happened to Joost should have been prevented, could be prevented and never be made right in that respect. But what his parents, his loved ones, his sister and other family members want is to be taught here, to learn from this and to help other family members save this suffering. Not because there is 100% safety, but because we know that we can do better. We give it to all people. I wish Joost's family a great deal of strength. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I now give the floor to Mr Van Wijngaarden on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Because no one had a complete picture of Philip O. now a child grows up without his father, two parents have lost their son, a sister lives without her brother and Joost's girlfriend is on her own. No report, no investigation, and no debate can undo the death of Joost Wolters. His next of kin have to live with the question why Philip O. was on that subway that day in 2017. If he hadn't been there, Joost Wolters would probably be alive by now. Whether Philip O. wouldn't have committed another terrible crime, we don't know. What we do know is that the government here has failed in its duty to protect society. A guy like Philip O. shouldn't have been on the subway, he should have been in jail. In this debate, the central question is how Philip O. was on that subway after all. The Justice and Security Inspectorate has done thorough work. I come to the recommendations and comments I have to make here, but first I would like to ask two questions about what the inspection did not examine. The inspection did not have access to the medical information contained in Philip O.'s medical records, but failed to inform the Health and Youth Inspectorate, which could, on the contrary, have access to medical records. I find that striking, because it would have made sense to look at the medical records when evaluating the detention course of someone taking heavy medication and suffering from a serious and complex psychiatric disease. Why did the Justice and Security Inspectorate make this choice? It almost seems that even when examining why care and justice worked side by side, the two inspections for justice and care in turn worked side by side. I would like a response on this point from the Minister. Another point that has not been investigated is the role of the D.A.'s office. In the Philip O. case, the D.A. could have been more courteous and self-criticismal towards the families of the metro murder. The prosecution could also have been more active in investigating why O. was extradited by the United Kingdom during the pre-murder period. If they had, things might have turned out differently. Of course, not only mistakes have been made in the prosecution, but it is difficult to digest that the criticism of the process of the prosecution cannot be addressed directly or difficult. After all, the D.A. has an independent position. As a result, survivors and victims with improvement points for the public prosecutor can only contact the National Ombudsman, who is far too distant from the Public Prosecutor, or the Customer Contact Centre of the Public Prosecutor. The VVD sees space to improve the learning ability of the Public Prosecutor and thinks of a victim's commissioner, such as England and Wales who already have. This Commissioner may investigate complaints and comments from victims and survivors and process them into recommendations to the Public Prosecutor. Now victims and next of kin can only go to the customer contact centre mentioned above. The VVD would like a response to this point of the cabinet and therefore asks the cabinet to investigate whether such a victim commissioner could help. Then I come to the recommendations myself. The VVD sees this report not separately from, but in conjunction with, the report of the Hoekstra Committee on Bart van U., who committed the murders of Els Borst and his own sister. This committee has already pointed out the lack of cooperation between care and justice and the reluctant sharing of data. Especially in the case of people who are psychologically burdened and may pose a danger to themselves or their environment, it is impossible to draw a precise line with a ruler where the care domain ends and the justice domain begins. I must say that the cabinet has already done a great deal in terms of legislation and measures. It really comes down to practice now. I have questions about that. What practical assistance can the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport do to healthcare professionals who fear medical confidentiality and disciplinary law and therefore remain unnecessarily reluctant to share information? To what extent are all psychiatrists and psychologists now trained to separate their roles as on the one hand a psychiatrist or psychologist and on the other hand a care psychiatrist with a treatment relationship within the meaning of the WGBO, in which they have to deal with professional secrecy, from each other, as well as the necessary file formation? It sounds technical and complicated, but this is extremely important. There really is a role for the Cabinet to actively support professionals to quickly make maximum use of the legal opportunities that the Cabinet has recently provided them with. Is this what the rulers are gonna do? What ambition do they have in this regard? What plan do the rulers have for this? The publication in the Staatsblad is not the end but the beginning of the work for this cabinet to achieve more flexible information sharing between care and justice. What ambition does the cabinet have for this and how is it going to report to the Chamber? Then over the vi. Philip O. violated his terms. How is the Minister for Legal Protection going to ensure that someone who violates the conditions of his parole, in all cases, including an ibs, goes straight back to jail? I would like a commitment on this point. I also see a problem with regard to criminal immigrants and migrants. How does the Minister ensure that the D.A. can request the criminal record of someone in another country? The D.A. declared through AT5 that it doesn't work that way. What kind of a method is that? Can the cabinet promise that the prosecutor will be sent to someone who is deported by another country at Schiphol Airport, where possible always investigates why someone is being deported and adds this to his or her file? I hear from practice, and this case also shows that it is necessary to linger with condemned people for a long time in order to get them to the right level. If this fails, someone may be in an unnecessarily heavy or too light regime, as was the case with Philip O. The VVD wants every convict in the place he or she needs. I would like to receive an improvement approach from the Minister with objective objectives in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u20	The colleague of the VVD spoke about this matter. It is not entirely clear to me whether he sees this as an incident, a lamentable failure, or whether he thinks that this is also a structural problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u21	I think it's a good thing this report is here now. I think that this report has been produced at all thanks to the next of kin, because they have done a great deal of work for it. This has also been done from this Chamber: Mrs Van Toorenburg, Mrs Kuik and many other colleagues. As a result, we can now look beyond this incident and learn lessons. I don't see this report on its own. I think we should see this in relation to the Hoekstra Committee's report. He also said that sharing data is exactly where it goes wrong. You see that care and justice as two sailing ships passing each other in the night, working side by side. That's what's causing it to go wrong. That's why it went wrong. That's why things went wrong here too. I have seen that the cabinet has come up with all kinds of improvement measures, including legislation. I didn't want to tire you out with that whole lineup. I can still do that if you want, but it really comes down to practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u22	I also asked this question last time to the Minister for Legal Protection in the case of Michael P. and the murder of Anne Faber: is there any question of individual errors by professionals, however painful, or is there something really wrong with the structure here? In particular, I am asking this question because 80 million has been cut by the previous cabinet, including those responsible for care, which has not been provided. You can also hear a lot of professionals saying that there are waiting lists and that they are not coming to perform their work properly. The question is therefore whether there is any degree of responsibility for Mr Van Wijngaarden's party, the VVD. It is known as the party of law and order, at least, on paper, because in practice they sometimes stumble about finding a receipt. So what is the responsibility of the previous cabinet on this point? Hasn't this just been a conscious policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u23	What I'm looking at is two things. I look at the responsibility of this cabinet and of these leaders, who are also sitting here together. I think it is extremely important that they are sitting here together, because it is precisely about the cooperation between care and justice. You can see it's gone wrong there a couple of times, and so has here. You were talking about the places. Are there enough places for people? I am glad that a forensic placement window has now been created, where there is always access to secure beds. That window is there, in addition to all kinds of measures that allow the exchange of information between care and justice, to which I referred. But what matters to me is that it is actually going to happen in practice. That is why I also indicated: the publication in the Official Journal is not the end, but the beginning. I really want the cabinet to watch live in those clinics, which we all talk to and where we all go. I want them to see how that data exchange goes. I've got someone sitting in front of me who's arson and this and that... Can I get all that data together? Can I get that person into the right regime? Because I think that's what we both want in the end. The legislation is there, but it really comes down to practice. I would like a report from the cabinet on this, from someone who really is a difficult word, President-in-Office prospectively, at the same time and on a random basis is going to watch it land in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u24	One of the important issues that has gone wrong in this horrible tragedy is, in my opinion, the fact that the final perpetrator has always failed to get to the right place. An important cause of this was the waiting lists in the forensic care, the accompaniment and the outpatient treatment. It is very important to exchange information better. That is absolutely a very important point, but I do not yet see very well how Mr Van Wijngaarden's speech and questions to the cabinet will ensure that the waiting lists are resolved and that there are enough places in the forensic care to ensure that society is protected from someone who is dangerous.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u25	I believe that every convicted person should be in the regime that fits the risk to our society in terms of gravity and security. That's also what we need to hold this cabinet to. That's why I just mentioned the forensic placement window, because that's really about someone's placement. I also pointed out all the measures taken to improve the exchange of information, so that you also have a more complete picture and you know what kind of risk someone is. 'Cause that's what went wrong here, too. However, I do think that we really should look into whether this is going to happen in practice. The Ministry must indicate how it intends to do that. I suggest that there should be a team that, as I have just indicated, will be able to determine on a random basis how these people are doing. We shouldn't be snooping with someone for an unnecessary amount of time, putting someone in too light a regime, no matter what happened here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u26	Yeah, or worse, that it's just out on the street and it's dependent on winter care, so it's not in a regime at all, when it's necessary. A placement window is good and asking a question to the cabinet is also good, but is it really very bad that there are still waiting lists today, since this tragedy? We can now ask the Cabinet to follow all this in the future, and we absolutely must, but it is not acceptable that there are still waiting lists today. This prevents people from sitting in the place where they should be, and that still puts society at risk. I would ask Mr Van Wijngaarden that the Minister for Legal Protection is now in conflict with an important part of the forensic concern about tariffs. If all those healthcare providers who need to protect society against these dangerous persons, even the minister should be brought to justice for decent tariffs so that they can ensure security, will that help solve and reduce waiting lists for society's security?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u27	That legal conflict between a number of clinics and this cabinet is currently being fought. I do not want to interfere in that conflict, but it is, of course, a pity that that is necessary. I'll share that with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u28	Mr. Van Nispen, so far I've actually accepted two questions, but finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u29	"Too bad" is a somewhat misplaced term in the context of healthcare providers who consider it necessary to bring the minister to justice, because he does not pay enough to provide enough places. I don't think that's a pity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u30	I'd like to respond to that. It's always a shame when people sue each other. This is a conflict and I do not think it is up to the Chamber to enter into a tariff debate now. But let both directors reflect on it for a moment, because this is about the Dutch Healthcare Authority, which has very clever calculation methods to calculate what it should be. But I think it's a good thing that the cabinet is going to go into what's happening now. For I do not want to sit on the chair of the NZa or on that of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u31	I very much agree with Mr Van Wijngaard's argument that everyone should be in the place where he or she should be. We don't want dangerous perps on the street. But then I will come back to Mr Van Nispen; I will try to ask him in a different way. In recent years, forensic care, psychiatric care, has been squeezed out. There's been a shortage of secure beds for a long time. If you read through the inspection report, it says that at different times in time this has caused problems for the unsub we're talking about today. I can also see that this cabinet has given an impetus to psychiatric care, but it is not enough yet. I would ask Mr Van Wijngaarden not to wait for the cabinet and for a new investigation. That inspection report's just there. It is quite clear that these deficits are enormous. This calls for structural measures to resolve these deficits. We can make that political appeal today, can't we? We don't need new investigations for that, do we?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u32	I can't do that much with "it's been squeezed out and that's why it all went wrong." And that it is said in a clause: "an impulse has been given, but." I do not think this is the debate about this type of party politics either. We find each other that everyone should just sit in the place where the heaviness of surveillance and treatment fits the risk that someone is for himself and his environment and that we should keep the cabinet there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u33	The last thing I want in this debate is party politics. I really want to look for solutions to the system errors that exist. I also deliberately compliment the cabinet, because I can see that something is happening. Only, when I read that inspection report, I'm freaking out anyway. Then I read that at several times the right care could not be provided by shortages, by waiting lists. If we want to put that system in order, then I think that is our expensive moral duty; it is not about political games. Then we'll have to solve those problems, won't we? There's no other way, is there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u34	Two things. On a waiting list for people who pose a danger to their environment, such as a Philip O., I have already said: I do not want an AMC to have to lean on those kinds of people and then settle for a place that is actually too light in terms of treatment and monitoring for the risk that that person poses to society. I made that very clear. We need to get rid of that. But if you're talking about system errors, I think we really, although it's complicated, need to go a little deeper, because then you'll really get to that information sharing. Because what makes it so twistedly complicated is that you exercise a BIG registered profession, are subject to medical discipline and therefore always have to fear a complaint and disciplinary procedure. If you have a treatment relationship with someone in the sense of the WGBO, then you are fully trained and trained to deal with it very carefully and not just share that information with another agency, especially with a non-medicus. The cabinet has now driven a whole battery of laws and regulations through the Chamber or has made its own decisions to make that possible legally. But I think the big bottleneck, the big challenge, is really getting that data sharing off the ground. That's not sexy, like a lot of money or anything, but it's important. That's why I insisted on that in the Cabinet: how are you going to drive that on the pros? 'Cause that's a whole lot new.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u35	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Grothuizen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Protecting the security of its citizens is the most important task of the government. Today's debate is about a very sad case in which the government has seriously failed in that task. That's not the first time. In other cases too, things went horribly wrong. This is extremely painful, especially for Mr Wolters' family and friends. My thoughts and condolences go first of all to them today. Mr. Chairman. This tragic case has been investigated. There were four major errors. They've already been mentioned. Philip O. remained at liberty despite an imposed PIJ measure, the preconditions for a responsible conditional release were not in order, at a number of times mistakes were made in relation to the alerts, and there was a lack of cooperation between punishment and care, leaving opportunities to treat him unused. It is particularly painful that some of these errors are known. In the case of Bart van U., who was convicted of Els Borst's death, there was also an unexecuted sentence, and there were also errors in alerts in that case. In the Anne Faber case, a lot went wrong in filling out the conditional release. So the problems are not new, nor, as far as I am concerned, an incident. There are persistent problems in implementation. Mr. Chairman. What strikes me in this connection in the letter from the rulers is the rather generous reference to new legislation. I understand the idea behind this legislation, and I support it, but I do wonder if that really is the solution. I do not really read anywhere in the inspection report that lack of regulation was now the big problem. Legislation is primarily paper. The execution must be done by people. If, for example, we look at conditional release, I note that under the rules in force at the time, too, this would have been possible if the current rules were to be postponed. Yet that was never asked. That's never been brought before the judge. If that is the case, when it comes to implementation in particular, what exactly is the effect of all these new laws and regulations? It is good to see new laws, organisations and systems, such as the AICE, which is also mentioned, but they are also vulnerable. Data must be correctly filled in and systems must also be consulted. Otherwise, I think the new system will remain as vulnerable as the old one. That is what my first questions to the Minister for Legal Protection are about. Does the Minister agree with me that the most important problem really was implementation? If he agrees with me, does he share the conclusion that the new laws will not necessarily solve that problem? And if that is the case, how is the Minister going to ensure that exactly that human work will improve in that execution? I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Mistakes have been made in parole. So far, this case looks like Michael P's. However, I also see an important difference. In the case of Michael P. there was too strong an emphasis on care and less emphasis on punishment and protection of society. But at least that is where the balance was made. In the case of O., there does not appear to be any consideration at all, at least not of a consideration which could be followed by the inspection. That is a very serious mistake, and perhaps a much more serious mistake. Mr. Chairman. I do not want to draw far-reaching conclusions from two cases, but the question arises as to whether we should be concerned about the p.i. in Vught. How does the Minister for Legal Protection view that question? Does he share my conclusion that no balancing is actually worse than balancing? And does he have cause for extra concern about Vught, or does he think that it is mainly a coincidence? I see Mrs Van Toorenburg standing at the interrupting microphone, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u37	Yes, I see her, too, but you were very eager to tell me how you look at this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u38	I was done with my cube. You're in front. I'm not gonna take over. But I was done with this theme.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u39	Okay. Then I'm going to see Mrs. Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u40	I'm struggling a little bit with the fact that it's now in one report that Philip O. threatened at the GGD. He threatened his mother and a GGD employee there and eventually ended up in the AMC with horns and bells. And there's an inspection report that says a whole different story. It has to do with the fact that this information cannot be shared and one can hide behind professional secrecy. Isn't that really something more than just rightly marked failure, not doing what you have to do? Isn't that what keeps dividing lines up, so you couldn't get through those walls?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u41	I come to the AMC and a number of things that stand out in the inspections, but I do agree with Mrs Van Toorenburg on this point. This also surprises me a bit. I light up a tip of the veil about the final part of my argument: why didn't the inspection have the treatment information? I think we have an inspection to learn from mistakes, and if it only has half a file, then that's crazy. I can also think of a number of reasons for this. I understand that this is complex, but I agree with Mrs Van Toorenburg that we should look at it. Mr. Chairman. It didn't just go wrong in Vught. The Public Prosecutor's Office seems to have made some serious mistakes. The report doesn't mention the D.A. so explicitly. That's what Mrs Van Toorenburg said. But when you read the report, you still see a number of moments when you, especially as a former officer, wonder why the prosecution had not noticed that the PIJ measure had not been implemented. Both in the destruction of a police vehicle, the robbery and the assault of a parish guard, I think, could have just been seen on the criminal record that there was a non-executed PIJ. This was also explicitly stated in the 2016 pro-justitia report. But then nothing happens. There was no alert, there was no execution. My question to the Minister for Legal Protection is therefore whether he agrees with me that the prosecution has also made serious mistakes in this case. Is it not unsatisfactory that the inspection actually says so little about this? That point has already been made by colleagues. I'd like to hear how the cabinet feels about that point. Mr. Chairman. I'm coming to the Academic Medical Center. Something weird seems to be going on there. The inspection states that the AMC finds that O. is out of place there, but then doesn't sign him up at a forensic psychiatric clinic and doesn't arrange any other place either. Unknownness with the judicial domain seems to be the reason for this. We have also discussed this before. We, the Chamber, do not have the report of the Health Inspectorate, but if the quote I read in the Volkskrant is correct, then the AMC said to that inspection that no one wanted O. and that "no one of the other parties accepted responsibility for this patient." I think that's two different things. Whether the AMC has done too little to find a suitable place for O. because it was unknown to the judicial domain, or O. was indeed a hot potato that no one wanted. My question to both rulers is: what is it now? I think it is one or the other and not both. That is also relevant, in my view, because I do not see how organisations can learn from their mistakes if there is still discussion about what exactly those mistakes are and who made them. I am not so much concerned with who has the black guy, because that does not really interest me. I think you're gonna have to be honest about your mistakes before you can work on improvement. Mr. Chairman. Finally, as I said in the interrupting debate with Mrs Van Toorenburg, I have a number of questions about the inspections themselves. First of all, I noticed that the Inspector JenV hasn't spoken to former employees. To be honest, I didn't understand that very well. Those people, I believe, are still available and may also be relevant to the investigation. My question to the Minister for Legal Protection is therefore: why are people who no longer work at the body under scrutiny not simply approached? My second question concerns the point Mrs Van Toorenburg raised about access to medical information. I understand the inspection JenV doesn't have it, but apparently the health department does. Nor do those inspections share that information among themselves. Is that right? Where exactly are the obstacles to sharing that treatment information with the JenV Inspection? I can imagine, but I'd like to hear this from the cabinet. And what does the Minister actually think about these obstacles? Mr. Chairman. I've already established that it looks like mistakes have been made at the D.A.'s office. The inspection says very little about that. I don't think that's satisfactory. Often supervision of the Public Prosecutor's Office is of course exercised by the judge, but that is only if there is a real criminal case afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u42	Are you going to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u43	This is my final question, Mr President. My question to the Minister is: can't this be better? Isn't it better to set up supervision of the Public Prosecutor's Office, where there is no judicial review? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u44	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Markuszower on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u45	Mr. Chairman. Let me begin, like the previous speakers, by expressing my condolences to the relatives of Joost Wolters, a young father in the thriving of his life, murdered. He leaves a son, a life partner, father and mother in great sorrow. On behalf of my entire group, I wish them and his family and friends much strength. Any murder that is committed is, of course, terrible, but a murder that could have been prevented is indigestible. In addition to the personal drama for Joost Wolters' family, such a murder also has political consequences. Because if such a murder doesn't have it, then it's waiting for the next innocent victim. How many Joost Woltersen and how many Anne Fabers does the minister need to see that we are dealing with a totally dysfunctional criminal justice chain in the Netherlands? 'Cause that's really what's going on here. Two reports have been written in connection with the murder of Joost Wolters. They do mention what went wrong, but do not draw the conclusion that Sander Dekker and Ferd Grapperhaus are in charge of a ministry that does have the name "Security," but is now responsible for insecurity at every level. The reality is that it is a matter of time until the next Anne Faber and the next Joost Wolters. I'm saying this, hoping I'm wrong and with pain in the heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u46	I am convinced of that, but I find it strange that Mr Markuszower is so clearly choosing to attack the Public Prosecutor alone. It's okay. It is also horrible and it must have been said, but you can see now that the hospital where this man ended up has let happen that there is not a good place for him. Then it's and-and, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u47	I don't think it's en-and. That Philip O. had in fact I come back to that in my text never, never, ever have to be sent to that hospital. He should've been in jail. That could have been done, even within the current legislation. It should have been, given his condition. I think he went to the AMC, that Philip O. That hospital wasn't quipped at all. That is what I will say in my text. Mrs Van Toorenburg and I have a lot of discussions in this Chamber about what to do with dangerous criminal lunatics. I really want them in jail and Mrs Van Toorenburg says: that's not real, because you can't just put everyone in jail for life. Even in Mrs. Van Toorenburg's system, this unsub should never, ever have been sent to that hospital. That hospital didn't want him, and it didn't know about the actual actions of that Philip O. It didn't have the right information. Philip O. wouldn't have given that hospital access to his own file, which we also see in other cases. So he was more entitled to privacy than society has the right to protection. The Justice Department didn't even look at it, but it was there. So the biggest problem has really been the justice system; that is what I just said in an interruption. Of course, a care sector cannot deal with dangerous criminals. They're doctors, doctors and nurses. They can't take care of such dangerous people. Dangerous criminals have to go to jail. They shouldn't be taken care of, they should be put in a basement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u48	Sometimes it is a good thing that Mr Markuszower keeps talking, because in the end he's going to say things that people think: wait a minute, be put in a basement? The point is that this man had been punished. Fortunately, we now have a new regime for this, so that the sentence can last longer and the conditional release is regulated differently, so no longer happens like this. But there always comes a time when someone is set free. Then we must also ensure a good relationship between justice and the AMC. Think of a package of information about rules that the person who is released must comply with and with guarantees that someone's leave is not looked at as with a regular customer, but as with an ex-justicant. So there's a lot to learn, but it's really too simple to just think that the problem is with the justice system and that we can just put them somewhere in a basement for a really long time. 'Cause that basement's gonna open one day, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u49	That Philip O. only got two years from the judge; I'll get back to you in a minute. Within the current rules, he was already free after 16 months. If his real file had been looked at, he could have been in prison much longer, according to Mrs Van Toorenburg, who I can already see nodding. If we had minimum sentences in the Netherlands, the PVV would have wanted him to be in prison for years. We also know from research that men between 16 and 35 to 40 years of age are the most dangerous. Let's make sure that those dangerous men get at least such long sentences once they've been caught, that they don't get out until after 35 after 40. That's point one. Two. Even with the Minister's new measures, namely that something is being done about the conditional release, as Mrs Van Toorenburg said, this Philip O. had already been released after two years of imprisonment. Even then, he was sent out of prison without measures. I will say something about this later. So it would have gone as wrong as it did. Maybe it wouldn't have gone wrong on that day with Joost Wolters, but there would have been another victim. So we must at least provide for much longer penalties. If Philip O. had been in prison longer, it should have been noted that he shouldn't have just gone out there. The speaker on behalf of D66, Mr Grothuizen, has actually said something about that. So even with a relatively short sentence, the government, the prison or the Ministry of Justice can say: this man is still too dangerous, and psychologically so crazy that he can't go out at all. In fact, the law already provides for measures to this effect. Then you can provide prison forensic care, so in prison offer forensic care and not in the AMC. You'll be in the AMC, I'll be in the AMC; we don't want that kind of crazy in the AMC at all. We want that kind of dangerous lunatics in jail. Does he need treatment? Then treat him in jail. And maybe that could last forever, but it has to be in jail.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u50	It is a loaded debate, but it is now also becoming an enlightening debate on the solutions the PVV has in store. I think it's very special. The PVV is always here to take the psychiatry, clinics, judges and prosecutors into account. The term "shame" regularly falls. Also, they all need to be fired. And now comes the solution of the PVV: put someone in a basement. I'd like to hear more about that. I'm just really curious what effect the PVV thinks it's going to have on a person who was already a danger to himself and his environment if we put him in a basement right now. How does the PVV think he'll get out after that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u51	That's, of course, metaphor for a cell that's colder, and a little colder of temperature than it will be for you and me at home. It's metaphorical for someone for a very long time to put these people away for life, because they're a danger to society. So it's a metaphor. So we can zoom in on that basement for a long time now, but what I mean by that is a bare, empty, cold, cold cell, in which it is not pleasant to stay and in which someone stays for a very long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u52	Thank you to Mr Markuszower for this clarification. Apparently his solution is to lower the heating a few degrees.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u53	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u54	Then we'll know where the PVV is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u55	Proceed, Mr. Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u56	It must be so uncomfortable in those cells that no one wants to be there. That, too, keeps society safer. The reality is that it is a matter of time until the next Anne Faber and the next Joost Wolters. I'm saying this hoping I'm wrong and with pain in the heart. But the Minister's letter is nothing but hiding from the storm, summing up fake measures and hoping that everything will blow over again. Those measures, which were agreed in the coalition long before all this happened, are not going to help the huge system crisis that we are facing here. Mr President, a few facts. A Ghanaian who has lived in the Netherlands for a long time is very violent, very criminal and very dangerous from a very young age. Already at the age of 16 he has committed several crimes and has almost been a murder in his name. So he's actually been a cold-blooded killer since he was 16. And somehow you can be criminal in the Netherlands and almost kill someone and then get a conditional PIJ measure as punishment. For the listeners at home: a PIJ measure is something like not being locked up, but psychologists are going to talk to you and hope that you change from an animal to an ordinary person. By the way, I notice that many of those cold-blooded perpetrators are portrayed as confused by all those treatment providers. But in the meantime, they all succeed, including Philip O., in not getting punishments and if they're already getting them to avoid those punishments. In the meantime, Minister Dekker is the real confused man, because he and his people, his prosecutors and his judges, are constantly fooled. Because of their confusion ordinary Dutch people are at risk and cold-blooded murderers and rapists are whistling around. Because that's what Philip O does. He eventually gets that treatment, even after serious misconduct, but then just walks across the border abroad. In those years, he also committed terrible crimes abroad on the conveyor belt. At some point Philip O. just walks back across the border. He's being questioned for a moment because the Marechaussee at Schiphol University also sees that something isn't right, but a search through the system doesn't yield anything, while he has a criminal past in the Netherlands and in England. Nota bene in the Netherlands he has an open sentence. Once in the Netherlands Philip O. goes back to work as a life-threatening criminal. He destroys a police car, assaults people and commits an armed robbery. He's gonna get caught miracle over miracle. And what is the prosecution doing and what are the judges doing with his criminal record, his criminal history and the advice of all those ant-sweet treatment men? Nothing. They're not doing anything with it. They look at him as if he's committed only one crime and has no serious criminal history. He only gets two years. So Sander Dekker let him walk free after 16 months, without measures. In prison, it must have been clear that we're dealing with a crazy, life-threatening lunatic here. But the warden of the prison will release him without conditions. That's the same director Michael Panhuis sent to the company. Actually, that director screwed up even more in this case. At Michael Panhuis, the director advised at least another treatment. Nothing here. Once outside the cell, Philip O. exhibits extreme behavior. He'll be treated through a civil measure. Then there's a lot of things going wrong in that trajectory. He's being placed in a hospital that isn't even equipped to treat these kinds of criminals; I just said it. Again, the Dekker and Grapperhaus Ministry are failing. Cowardly look-away behavior is seen at every level at the Ministry of Dekker and Grapperhaus. What really needs to be done? The skill and culture at the Dekker and Grapperhaus Ministry is lacking and rotten. So fire all the actors who have failed here: the prosecutors who did not demand sufficient punishment and did not make the file clear to the judges, the judges who punished too low, the prison director, Erik Masthoff, who has now even been promoted, the officials who show obscene behaviour and the administrators of all those systems that are not in order. Fire them all. Two. Put in minimum sentences immediately, so that these kinds of animals disappear into prison for a very long, preferably lifetime. Three. Make sure that suspects of violence and sex crimes appear at the hearing.... the CDA was against it, but the PVV would like to do so... and be thrown directly into jail after their conviction. Four. Pick up all the more than 10,000 loose criminals that the judge says should be in jail, but Graperhaus and Dekker are allowed to walk free. To conclude, can the Minister respond to my proposed measures and answer one pressing question? How much Philip O.What's the matter with the Secretary of State now? How many so-called ex-cons are treated through a civil measure? How many crazies like this are in jail, but are they gonna be released between now and 2030?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u57	Hey, Mr. Chairman. I just need to get this tirade working on me. I'm gonna get a few things out of it. I fully understand what Mr Markuszower is saying about a number of things that are really wrong. I said something about that, too. But I got up because he's talking about "Dekker's judges." These judges aren't Dekker's. Those Judges shall be independent. We're allowed to criticize that. Yeah, I do. Fortunately, they also recover a leg and the penalties become firmer in the Netherlands. But they're not Mr. Dekker's judges.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u58	And Grapperhaus.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u59	Especially not from Grapperhaus. But what is even more important is that at some point Mr Markuszower also says that he wants everyone to be required to appear in plenary session. We've arranged that with each other, but if we do that to everyone, no one's gonna come to his verdict. Did he also involve that investigation, or did he not think it was so important and doesn't matter anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u60	About the last one. We have tabled a motion for a resolution, and I have just said that people who are suspected of serious crimes, of violent crimes and of sexual crimes must appear in court. That hasn't been settled at all. It doesn't happen too often. Also for the people at home: then someone is convicted, but he cannot be caught and he does not disappear immediately in prison because he has not appeared in court. Someone has then been convicted and has to go to jail, but by now there are at least 10,000 people there are life-threatening murderers and rapists among those who, among other things, walk freely in the Netherlands, Turkey, Morocco, or I know much where, because nobody knows exactly. So they're not in jail. That could have been resolved if the CDA had voted in favour of our motion and if it had been a policy now, but that has still not been settled. Then there is the first point. Let me think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u61	About Dekker's judges. And Grapperhaus.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u62	Yeah, and Grapperhaus, sure. Do you know who those judges aren't? They're not ours. They are not the judges of the Dutch. Why not? We can't choose them. We can't fire them. They are appointed for life. And indeed, as Mrs Van Toorenburg said, they are completely independent. I call that: detached from reality. The punishments are too low. This kind of life-threatening Philip O.It'll only take two years. Those judges are, in this case for sure, lazy. They didn't even look back. False District Attorneys, who are certainly from Grapperhaus and Dekker, are too lazy and too bad to just take the file to court and say, "Look, Judge, this Philip O. hasn't committed one crime, but has been a professional criminal for ten or twelve years now, a life-threatening criminal, a murderer since he was 16. They're not taking any of that. And those judges don't look beyond their noses either. And why do they do that? They can't be fired by anyone. And the CDA in this House of Representatives simply says: yes, but they are independent, they need respect and no one should say anything about them. But in the meantime, those judges are gonna be squeezing at our work. Yesterday. We are all making proposals here as a political one, but the judges, through the Council of Ministers, are critical of this. They are restricting our space, but once one person has only one group that does so: mine says to the judges that they should stick to the lesson and perform something instead of just failing and sending life-threatening criminals to society, everyone comes forward, now Mrs Van Toorenburg, to say: hey, no criticism of the judges.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u63	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u64	They're gonna sit there, and those same judges are gonna start punishing somebody too low next month or tomorrow, and that's gonna get another innocent person killed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u65	Mrs Van Toorenburg, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u66	Of course, anyone can criticize judges. We even have regular talks here in the Chamber with the President of the Supreme Court, where we can say anything we want. We have discussions with the Justice Council, in which we can say anything we want. We can write them letters. They're writing us letters. So there's nothing wrong with that. Anyone can criticize judges. I get that from time to time. But of course it is a bit strange what Mr Markuszower is doing now, as if the judges were just walking the one who killed Joost. There is no question of that at all. The fact is that this guy got a short sentence because he hadn't committed those crimes at the time. I also find it odd that he gets a suspended sentence for destroying a police vehicle, but let's be honest: he didn't get a life sentence for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u67	Thank you, Mr. Markuszower. You want a short response?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u68	Those judges did let Philip O. go. He didn't just come for the gate for destroying a car. I think he also committed an armed robbery at a gas station. He should've gotten a much longer sentence for that. But the judges were too lazy and too bad. That was the problem. They're just really bad judges. Those judges didn't take a good look at the file. It couldn't have been good either, because the D.A. has also failed. They didn't take the right file to the hearing either. So we're dealing with a failure of the Public Prosecutor's Office and a failure of the judges. That's why someone got a far too low sentence. After that, things went wrong, because all the other departments of the criminal justice chain don't work either. All the way to the end, okay, it went wrong at the AMC, too. But that's all the way to the end. 80% or 90% of the problem lies with Dekker and CDA Minister Grapperhaus. There are the real problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u69	Mrs. Van Toorenburg, I see you standing, really rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u70	Mr President, he did not receive any TBs because this was not done by judges at the time, because he did not cooperate. That too has been a legislative proposal and it has been amended, so let us not pretend that nothing is happening, as if everyone can commit endless crimes without ever being imposed by so-called lazy judges. I'm really moving away from this. Let me say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u71	Then you've made this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u72	No, I didn't talk about TBs. I don't know where that came from. I said the judges should have punished longer. Now Mrs. Van Toorenburg comes up with the TBs. They didn't give TBs either, but if they had, Joost Wolters would have been killed, because in those TBs clinics they'd be sent on leave sometimes. So that wouldn't have helped. So don't whisper to the judges that they need to give more TBs. My point is that the judges must punish longer and harder.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u73	You made that clear. Thank you, Mr. Markuszower. I now give the floor to Mr Van Nispen, on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u74	Mr. Chairman. Joost was on the subway on June 27, 2017. A man pulled a knife just like that, and he started stabbing. Joost Wolters died. The unsub, Philip O., should never have been in this place. A series of mistakes preceded this. Once again, we are here to discuss a tragedy and to wonder how it could have happened, and how the Minister and the Secretary of State are going to prevent this from happening again. My condolences also go first of all to the next of kin. I'm not going to go overboard about how angry I am that this could happen again. Many questions have already been asked, and I would add a number of them. But before I do, here's what I'm gonna do. The Minister mentions a number of strengthened laws and measures. But in the end, it is people who have to avoid this kind of drama. Safety is and remains human work. It is not always in rules and certainly not in production typing, protocols or structures. It's about the human being, the professional who does whatever it takes. Feel responsible and don't let go until it's resolved. For example, drag until a dangerous man is in the right place. Or one more ride on the bike, looking for that out of the picture person. People like that do work there, including parole and prison. However, the structures and sometimes the too tight budgets do not give them enough room for manoeuvre, too many colleagues, too much bureaucracy, insufficient professional space for action. Do the rulers recognize that? What are they going to do about this? Because not rules and protocols, but people make and keep our country safe. I think the probation budget is too tight for the important tasks she has been given. The complexity of this matter is increasing, and we are asking a great deal of the workers. There is still a constant, recurring pattern, namely waiting lists, in the forensic care, in the assisted living, in the outpatient treatment. Phillip O. always doesn't end up in the right place because there are waiting lists. That too is simply unacceptable. Or may I just call this a disgrace? If we were to provide enough homes and adequate shelter, it would be a great deal of trouble in our country. Why can't we organise this in a rich country like the Netherlands? That is also my question to the Minister and the Secretary of State in this debate. Of course, the conflict with the forensic care about money is not helping. There is something that has never been shown before: the health care institutions, which are responsible for the treatment of dangerous people, are currently taking the minister to court because they want tariffs to guarantee security. Otherwise, as they themselves say, they will have to stop treatment, there will be fewer staff, some patients will no longer be able to be placed and the waiting lists will be longer. So that has everything to do with the debate we are having here today. The Minister puts the lower limit for quality and care at risk, putting forensic care providers at risk. Yesterday, in response to parliamentary questions, the Minister replied that he does not recognise the image of under-financing and the risk to security. What makes the Minister think he knows better than the people who do this important and difficult work every day? And what kind of system did we come up with here? The Minister really sees this as a market, because he says that higher rates could lead to the removal of the incentive to innovation in quality and cost control. That's what the Minister writes. I wonder, how do you get that out of your pen? Is the Minister prepared to provide adequate tariffs for forensic care to prevent waiting lists and ensure that people are placed in the right place so that the safety of society is guaranteed? And why is the system so rigid that the legal title of someone determines whether they can be placed, and not the problem of a patient? 'Cause security has to be at the forefront, right? I shall, of course, also deal more specifically with the mistakes that have been piled on top of each other. It starts with not implementing those youth tbs. That's a big mistake. The fact that someone who's been in such serious trouble for so long is getting away with his punishment is really very bad. Then there will be no intervention and it will go from evil to worse. At first, the unsub wasn't spotted before that P.I.I. How could this happen? And from now on, will that happen in all cases? There are hard conclusions about the prison. That's the PI Vught again. A very bad assessment has been made here. It was known that Philip O. could be mentally derailed in the absence of proper guidance and medication. Yet he was released on parole, without a permanent residence. Of course, that's really asking for trouble. Because then you can't treat and watch at all. How is this possible? Can the Minister exclude that capacity considerations play a role in this? There haven't been enough staff for years. Could this lead to careless or irresponsible decisions? And by the way, how could this man have been released without electronic surveillance? I also find it really incomprehensible that such a dangerous person should end up in the wrong place. First he comes to the winter shelter. That's where he gets completely out of the picture. Of course it does, because that place isn't meant for that. Then why didn't someone intervene and watch him? He is then in the AMC on the basis of a civil measure. Then there won't be any more conditions he has to abide by. There's no surveillance either. That civil measure BOPZ is leading and not conditional release. In fact, the two officers involved, the one responsible for the criminal part and the other for the civil part, do not even consult each other. How is that possible? How is it that the supervision of the civil measure is so weird that even the professionals who had to work with it don't really understand what they had to do? That's very risky, isn't it? Is that whole misunderstanding of yours? That's an understatement of yours, isn't it? Why is the exchange of information between justice and care still not in order? I agree with the questions raised about access to the file and medical professional secrecy. That plays a role in several places and at several times. I find that really problematic. If we want to know the truth in order to learn lessons, then the inspection, which is to do so, must be able to see this kind of information. I'd like an extensive response. And why didn't the Justice and Security Inspectorate and the Health Inspectorate investigate this case together? Wouldn't that have been better? We must have this debate in order to find out what went wrong and to do the best we can to prevent it from happening again, but we will not get Joost Wolters back with this. Once again, I wish all the next of kin good luck.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u75	Thank you, Mr. Van Nispen. I now give the floor to Mr Van den Berge on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u76	Mr. Chairman. I too, like colleagues, would like to begin my speech today by expressing my condolences to the relatives of Joost Wolters. They've been through the most horrible thing you can experience in your life. I can only try to understand what that must be like, but I will of course never be able to comprehend that. I would like to express my condolences on behalf of my group and also on behalf of GroenLinks. I think it is our expensive duty as politicians today to learn from the inspection reports we have received, from the cabinet responses we have received. Of course, we don't do that to be political. I said that earlier in an interruption debate with Mr Van Wijngaarden. I also attach great importance to it, because I am going to ask a number of critical questions to the rulers. But I don't do that to be political about this. That is the last thing I would like, but I do think it is our expensive duty to learn from the mistakes that have been made at different times by different agencies. We need to figure out how to get the leak upstairs. I have to admit that, when I read the inspection report of the Justice and Security Inspectorate, I was really shocked by everything I read and the mistakes that have been piled together. I also have to say that the chills ran over my back because you know how it ends in the end. Things often go wrong in the justice chain, of course, but when things go badly, when a father, an innocent person, becomes the victim of that failure, there are no words for it. That's terrible. To be honest, it surprises me too, because the unsub, Philip O., had been on the Justice radar at several times since 2005. He was in juvie. He has been imposed on a PIJ measure, so-called youth TBs. He's been able to get away from it. And when he then came back to the Netherlands and came into contact with justice again, there were indeed no alarm bells ringing at the Public Prosecutor's Office or at other agencies. Apparently, no one said, "Why didn't Philip O. go through that treatment?" When he came into contact with justice again, he was punished, but the penitentiary institution in Vught wanted, as we read in the inspection report, that Philip O. would receive psychiatric treatment at the end of his detention. That was not possible at the time, according to the inspection report due to waiting lists at the outpatient care facility. The question is how could it be that conditional release has taken place, when the people in the penitentiary institution actually thought that this person needed treatment and that it was irresponsible for society to let him get free, because he might withdraw from the medication, because he would not abide by the conditions. I am asking the directors how it could have happened that the advice was given in the end to proceed with conditional release, even if a treatment was actually needed. Mr. Chairman. When it comes to drawing lessons, we will also have to look at the things that have really gone structurally wrong in the system of all judicial and non-judicial organisations involved in Philip O. Colleague Van Nispen has already asked a number of questions about mental health care and forensic care. I would like to endorse this and have a number of additional questions. We have stacked targets over the past few years when it comes to forensic care. We regularly hear from treatment professionals, whether it's in TBs clinics or other forensic clinics, how these clinics are under enormous pressure, how they can't handle the work. When I read what went wrong with Philip O. and where that led to, I cannot escape the impression that Mr Van Nispen also said that this really has to do with the high workload, with structural problems, with the fact that there are too few people. We will have to find solutions to that. We will have to ensure that the treatment of persons such as Philip O. can start during detention. The Minister knows that this has been one of the reasons why my group has supported the Law on Punishment and Protection. That was a complicated trade-off for us. In fact, we did not want to restrict conditional release, but we also see the good elements in the law, that is, the inside of the prison walls, it starts early in detention with the treatment of persons such as Philp O. Those are fine intentions, but the question is how we are going to make sure that it is also practical when the probation is under pressure, when the mental health care is under pressure, when there are too few operators. That is a specific question for the Minister: how are we going to get that leak up? As I said in the interruption debate with Mr Van Wijngaarden, I can see that this cabinet is doing a number of things. I can also see that this Minister has given a financial boost, especially to forensic care. However, this financial impetus is available until 2020 and the new multi-annual agreements are currently under discussion. We can see that it's already come to this, that psychiatric caregivers are suing the government for saying, "This is how it's gonna work out for us." When I read the Minister's answers to Mr Van Nispen's questions, I am a little concerned. The minister is hiding behind the Dutch Healthcare Authority and the advice. Of course, the Minister and the Secretary of State could also say: we think it is so important that this care can be provided, that we are going to be a little higher with those rates. They are advisory fees and there is the possibility of 10% above them. That is a question for the Minister and the Secretary of State: why do they not choose to do so? Why do they not say: we think this is so important, we see that it is very difficult to attract staff, even though we are giving that impulse to those people that we are not drawing to the sector that we are taking a step further? Mr. Chairman. Then I'm left to wish the next of kin good luck again. You might want to do more at a time like this, but I'm afraid you can't. In any case, I hope that we can learn lessons from this horrible murder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u77	Thank you, Mr. Van den Berge. I now give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The authorities failed, and then Joost was dead. That's one of the headlines following the tragic death of Joost Wolters. I cannot really imagine how much that hurts, but I would like to express my group's sympathy with the family members who are here. It must be strange to follow such a debate. Mr. Chairman. The injuries, done by the mentally ill Philip O., have led young Joost Wolters, his child, his partner and his family and friends to leave behind. Now that we have this debate together, the question is whether this murder could have been prevented. The second is what we can learn from each other. Or as the family put it worthyly: in the beginning you assume that the authorities concerned take responsibility. They then say: we had hoped that they would sit together, open, honest and transparent; that they would discuss with each other what went wrong and that they would learn lessons from each other to prevent new victims. The cynical conclusion is "so the family also put it" that that often happens only in cases that get a lot of media attention. Mr. Chairman. Philip O. also had plenty of moments to intervene. He was a ticking time bomb for years. And unfortunately, it exploded. There was no one to do the surgery, because Philip O. has a track record when it comes to violence. In that years of track record, instances have made crucial mistakes. The most important mistake is that Philip O. ended up in the Amsterdam Medical Centre, while it was obvious that forensic and psychological guidance was necessary. But signals from the AMC that he did belong in forensic psychiatry were ignored, ignored by the Public Prosecutor, ignored by the police and ignored by the parole board. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, it didn't stop at that one crucial mistake. The AMC didn't have a good transfer file and no good information. Philip O. escaped his youth tbs in 2009; it was not known. The Marechaussee let Philip O. walk in 2017 and the judge didn't have his entire judicial history. He threatened his mother on probation, but wasn't sent back to prison. He even threw a cup of hot tea over a nurse at the AMC, but was then allowed on unguided leave. It is an accumulation of violent and sad consequences. Mr. Chairman. Then you think to yourself: where have we heard this horrible story before? For the DENK Group, this is not on its own. We spoke here on Thursday 3 April about the murder of Anne Faber, and there were authorities working alongside each other in that case, there were serious errors of assessment and there was no final responsible. And we have another debate about the terrible murder of Humeyra, in which the agencies Safe Home, parole, police and the Public Prosecutor have failed to protect a young woman from the murderous Bekir E. Mr. Chairman. This indicates system failure, a chain that doesn't function properly, that drops, where there's no direction and where information ends up where it belongs. Then you hope, as the parents said, that there is self-reflective ability and that people sit together. That has not been enough, even if I read all the pieces. GGZ Nederland is far too weak in its own bosom and comes up with a statement full of beautiful management language in which they take far too little responsibility. And the Salvation Army and the parole board aren't at home either. The probation refers to a trajectory holder. For me, it's unclear who that should be. Mr. Chairman. My question to the Minister is how he's going to direct the chain. How's he gonna secure that information exchange? How does he rule out us being back here in a few months because of a terrible mistake? Mr. Chairman. The failing system is, of course, not just a question of direction and chain responsibility. It is also a sum of choices made by Cabinets and Ministers. In the Rutte II cabinet, 80 million has been cut, including forensic care. The Minister rightly pointed out in his documents that the availability of forensic care is a bottleneck, but that availability also depends on funding. Under the leadership of Prime Minister Rutte, the cabinet played Russian roulette with society with these political choices. It wasn't either, but when things were gonna go wrong. Does the Minister recognize his responsibility here too? The Minister's letter of 13 November contains a number of points for improvement. We always see that, as in his previous letter of March 28th. When you read it, you think to yourself: these are open doors, why hasn't this happened before? I know. If the Chamber isn't on top of it, but even if the media aren't on top of it, it always gets bogged down in good intentions. This remains an important concern. The Minister mentions the national system Execution and Signaling, which allows criminal decisions to be consulted in conjunction with other systems, IRIS and AICE. Does that include criminal law or restraining orders? We attach great importance to this. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. There is also directed by young people and adults. How do we prevent an emptiness due to age and do we risk it? Mr President, I shall conclude. As far as the DENK group is concerned, the Minister's letter lacks the knowledge of how the victim's family is handled. I miss the apology, but that's not the end of it either. These people are also victims and traumatized. They must also be compensated for the consequences of this unimaginable failure on the part of the government. Can the Minister say that he is coming up with an appropriate and generous payment of pain?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u79	Thank you, Mr. Azarkan. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u80	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to begin my contribution by expressing my condolences to the family and loved ones of Joost Wolters. This morning I heard Joost's sister on Radio 1. I have deep respect for the way in which she has so quietly and carefully told us what mistakes have been made and how the family, with the help of journalists, has managed to complete the pieces of this horrible tragedy. I have deep respect for the way in which they have examined his file, remain so strong, seek answers and try to reconstruct where it could go so wrong. Because not Joost was in the wrong place at the wrong time. He should have been safe there. Mr. Chairman. A lot has already been said and a lot of questions have already been asked. I would like to join with the questions, especially from the SP and DENK. I too would like to make it clear that what has happened is part of a comprehensive failure of the VVD policy; I would like to put it that way. This kind of policy fails in all areas by shifting responsibility to society, where there are no means of dealing effectively with dangers such as those with these disorders. Dramas like this are a side effect of austerity. Reductions are a form of outsourcing of former public service tasks. It's just a question of who. Mr. Chairman. In recent years, the police have been getting more and more reports of incidents involving confused persons. That is a consequence of the cuts in health care. There is a great shortage of secure ggz beds, a great shortage of places to protect society from life-threatening people. Philip O. has been on a waiting list for five months for specialist assistance after applying for his guidance. Such queues should be eliminated as soon as possible. Mr. Chairman. In addition, O. was accompanied by the Salvation Army in his probation, making it difficult to find documentation. Why is there pressure on the Salvation Army to take responsibility for these people? Isn't parole a government job? Why do we depend on the Salvation Army in a case like Philip O.? I can give you the answer to the last question. That is the policy of austerity and the policy of shearing. Mr. Chairman. I have a number of additional questions. Why can't people still cooperate in their TBs investigation? Why is someone who, according to a forensic clinic, is clearly not ready to go back out on the street? What are the conditions of conditional release? How is it that the Marechaussee appeals to a person and refuses to give information, so that he can walk on like that? Can anything be changed about this? So it may be a theoretical question, but could Philip O. have taken the plane to another Schengen country and been safe for prosecution? Mr. Chairman. The answers to these questions do not bring Joost Wolters back, but they are necessary to ensure that this never happens again. Again, I wish all the next of kin a great deal of strength.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u81	I think this is very special. First it is said: I agree with the other questions. Then it is said that it is all the fault of the VVD policy. As an example, an organisation, the Salvation Army, is cited, pretending to be some sort of Mother Theresa volunteer organisation. But that's just an organizational part of the Reclassification. I'll tell you what that VVD policy is. The Law on the Enforcement of Criminal Decisions, the establishment of the National Information System Executive & Signaling, the Penalty and Protection Act, the Law on compulsory ggz and the Forensic Care Act, the Forensic Placement Window and the Forensic Care Decision, which allows for the sharing of information between ggz and forensic care. Will you consider the substance of the policy that this cabinet is pursuing, rather than simply calling it all the fault of the VVD after such a terrible tragedy? That's not a serious contribution, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u82	I have to say that this sort of thing is happening, namely that there has indeed been cuts in the care, that there has been cuts in the ggz and that there is a kind of market policy that leaves things to the market that should be in government hands. The fact is that such a horrible tragedy could have been prevented. And yes, I think the VVD is a bit responsible for the policy. Those are the facts. The SP has already summarised it. It has quoted a sentence from a letter of inquiry which was inimitable and was an exodus of this market thinking, of the regulation and policy advocated by the VVD, namely that the market must solve it, while people must keep society safe. All these protocols and all these laws are obviously not helping to stop this kind of horrible tragedy and not let this happen anymore. So I also expect solutions from the VVD not to let this happen again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u83	We are also happy to offer these solutions, but it will also help to read the reports that say that the exchange of data also requires foundations, that this requires policies. And there is. So I suggest we go into that as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u84	Yeah, that was one of the questions that was in my list, but I couldn't ask because of the lack of time. Of course, we need to look at how the exchange of data can be improved. In my view, I have asked how it is possible that authorities do not know about certain backgrounds. That must be made clear. That is also my question to the Secretary of State: how can it be exchanged in such a way that it is clear to every body what someone has and that this cannot happen anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u85	Thank you, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. That also brings us to the end of the first term of office. There's a need for suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u86	I give the floor to the Minister for Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u87	Mr. Chairman. Today we are debating critical reports of two inspections. A lot has already been said. I, too, sympathize with the relatives of Joost Wolters, because it is an extra painful day for them, on which many things are stirred up. My thoughts go out to them. It's hard to imagine what they're getting at. Their beloved son, brother, father and partner are gone. There are reports that show that mistakes have been made by different agencies. There are also things that may not be covered in these reports, but in the discussions I have had with them, I have seen that things have not gone well in the process either. They've made it all worse. I do feel a bit about the words Mrs Kuik said about that. That's what I hear in the words of the family. There is no measure that Joost Wolters can bring back, but eventually you have to face what happened and be honest about it, transparent and open, in order to learn from it. Maybe that's the only thing, but also the most important thing we have to do with this: to draw hard lessons. Mr. Chairman. There's a serious report that draws firm conclusions. For more than ten years Philip O. has moved between home and abroad, between justice and care, between detention and the street. He was able to get out of sight of the authorities. The possibilities for getting a grip on him have not been sufficiently exploited by various bodies. In that period Philip O. was further derailed. For the Secretary of State and myself, these lessons weigh heavily. It is the responsibility of the government to protect society from dangerous people. Public authorities can be expected to ensure that the systems that have been built up and are designed to provide protection are in order, as well as professionals can be required to act jointly and decisively. Mr. Azarkan asked what that means for the family and the next of kin. I apologized in a conversation I had with the next of kin, also on behalf of the bodies that played a part in this. Of course, I have also said that the mistakes that are made include a good regulation, a good further concession. That is not something for this debate, but you can be sure that we will take care of it properly. We are having the political discussions here in this house. The conclusions of the inspections are not new. Vulnerabilities in the system have previously been identified. Measures have also been taken and much has been started to minimise the risk of repetition. Tragically, we have to conclude that this is too late for Joost Wolters. Lots of questions have been asked. We have divided the tasks in such a way that the Secretary of State will deal with the forced care process in the near future. I focus mainly on matters relating to justice. I'd like to walk through a couple of topics. First of all, it is just as broad: the coherence of this matter with other matters. In other words, what about learning ability? Then the three strokes we see in the reports: what is needed to prevent this in the future or to reduce the chance of it; a more complete picture, a more careful review and clear direction. Finally, I would like to say a few things about inspections: the scope of the inspection and the role of the public prosecutor, for example, but also a number of turns that have taken the inspections and how we look at them with a view to the future. Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the first block. Your Chamber links other cases, so the violent death of Joost Wolters and other cases in which the system failed, for example the case of Bart van U. and Michael P. How often should things go wrong? I understand that very well. It is about matters that affect us all, that affect society and that cause grief, disbelief and uncertainty. I can assure your Chamber that the Cabinet and all the organisations involved are doing everything in their power to learn from what has happened. By facing incidents and not mucking them away, taking them seriously and then making sure that they are also investigated. What exactly happened? Where did it go wrong? What can we learn from that? I can assure your Chamber that these lessons will not then end up in a drawer, but that we will take measures to improve where possible according to the doctrine of 'open and transparent'. That's what we've done, even in the past. Mr Grothuizen briefly referred to the Bart U. case. The Hoekstra Committee has examined it thoroughly. Lessons have been learned, including on topics that are not coming back today. Take, for example, the whole DNA sample, the theme of a single prosecutor in serious criminal cases, the procedure on international alerts that has been clarified, but also, for example, something we see coming back here. Then it is about execution and open sentences: measures that were then introduced to reach the USB Act, which will enter into force in two weeks' time. The same goes for the Michael P case. There, too, strong measures have been taken following critical reports. Measures to better identify risks, to allow more risk to be taken into account in decisions such as the granting of leave, conditional release, in particular in the chain of forensic care. That's a slightly different chain, but it's themes that are recognizable. Then I come to the question of whether there is a common thread. The answer to that is: yes, there is always. I'm afraid, and that's the honest answer, that where people work, mistakes are made, even on this kind of complicated cutting surfaces where you're dealing with professionals in different organizations in the two different worlds of care and punishment that have to work together and share information. It is human work and the honest message is that we cannot rule out mistakes for 100%. There's no such thing as 100% security. I think it is my duty, also to you, to be honest about that. However, we can minimise the risk to society by continuing to learn from what is happening here today. I'm gonna go into that in detail later. What went wrong? And what could be better? That's what I can promise. I can promise to work very hard every day with all the institutions to minimise the chance of repetition and to protect society as much as possible. Mr. Chairman. At Philip O. we see where it went wrong. We see that the PIJ measure, youth TBs, has not been implemented. I understand very well that a lot of spokesmen in this house ask: how could that have happened? The report shows that its origins have been back for some time. In 2007, this was not detected or properly included in the systems. It is even so long ago that the inspection says: we can no longer precisely determine whether it was abandoned at the time or whether it was abandoned, but not entered into the systems. But in this whole case, it is always a matter of time and time again that the image was insufficient. Also, information was not clear enough. In this case, it concerned the status of the sentence, which meant that the Public Prosecutor's Office and the judge were not keen to see another PIJ open. Mr. Chairman. Society can expect imposed penalties to be actually implemented. The deed to the word. That is precisely why we are taking measures to bring about a more central direction and a more personalised implementation. While this was about a case in the past and sometimes scattered across different districts, we are now, and especially when the USB Act comes into force, looking at the person much more. The person is taken as the centerpiece. What happened to someone in the past? What are the outstanding penalty parts? Has anyone been spotted? And what exactly is to be done? The USB Act is going to help. It will enter into force in January. From then on, the special unit there, the AICE, the Administration and Information Centre for the Executive Chain, is monitoring the execution of penalties. That unit also ensures that the authorities, from police to DJI, can check what's going on at any time. Mr. Chairman. In anticipation, the status of the sentence is already more clearly recorded on the judicial documentation extract. Mr Van Wijngaarden asked: how is it ensured that prison staff, for example, will be able to check the situation, what crime has been committed and for what crime that person has previously been detained? With this system, prison staff can already access this information via the judicial documentation extract. In 2020, the registration of criminal decisions on this extract will be further improved. Then it is the unit AICE that provides the information for that purpose. The member Van Wijngaarden also asked in what way the D.A. can request a criminal record in another country. This is also part of a more complete picture. Here too, the same extract is of vital importance. That plays a role in this. If a Dutch person commits a criminal offence in another Member State, in another EU Member State, that Member State is obliged to report it and that is what is included in the extract. In the case of non-Member States, the information shall be shared through an extradition or transfer request. In other words, a lot is being done around the USB Act, around the AICE, but also through the Executive and Signaling app, which has been used by the police for six months and which also makes this type of information available in real time to street agents. Mr President, I see people coming to the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u88	Yeah, me too. But you were...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u89	Then I'll just keep going.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u90	At this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u91	Yeah, at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u92	If you conclude, Mr Grothuizen will first have the floor and then Mr Van Wijngaarden will have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u93	Mr Groothuizen and Mrs Kuik said: "This is all nice. This is about laws and systems, but are we dealing with a paper reality or a system reality? It's also part human work, isn't it?" The answer to that is yes. In the end, it's both. These are laws and systems that help people on the streets and professionals in the criminal justice chain to do their job well. But even when the systems are in order, it turns out to be human work and mistakes can still be made. That is what we saw here when it came to the alert, for example. When Philip O. went on leave in 2017 and came back late, there was a human error. We can't stop them. We can make the systems better. So how do we ensure that the new laws and the new systems do not just remain a paper reality? We do this by ensuring that the people who have to do it, the people in the execution, are familiar with it and trained on it. Let me give you an example. As of January 1st, the execution responsibility goes to my ministry. He's leaving the state's attorney's office. Then the new USB is coordinated from the CJIB. It has been simulated for a year with this new reality, with all those involved around the table. There is training and complicated cases are introduced to see if it works and if everyone knows what to do at any time. These new laws play two things. If you are going to a new reality, whether with USB or later with the law mandatory ggz when it comes to mandatory care, that is always a bump on the one hand because you are going to work another way. That's for a lot of people in the field getting used to. This brings with it the risk of new mistakes. At the same time, that is my optimistic impression of the fact that there are new systems and new laws also give rise, an opportunity to train the people in the implementation and to be very conscious about it. My colleague and I ensure that when these laws are introduced, implementation is taken into account, precisely in this way. That brings me to the end of this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u94	It is, of course, fine that we are going to clarify exactly what is and is not written on the judicial documentation. I am very much in favour of that. I hear the minister say it wasn't right for the D.A.'s office. I think that's a bit of a mystifying answer. I think those docs showed that the PIJ measure had not been implemented. My own experience is that if it does not say that it has been executed, it has not been carried out. But this is also explicitly stated by the inspection: "If it does not say that it has been implemented, this means that implementation has not yet been completed." Three cases have passed, namely the damage to a police vehicle, the robbery and then the abuse of a police guard. There was then a criminal case in which there was a doc on the desk of the prosecutor, in which one could simply see that that PIE was never carried out. My question is that right, because I think this is how it is. If so, does the Minister therefore recognise that it is more than "it was not in the eyes of the prosecutor" and that a human error has been made up to three times in which this has been overlooked?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u95	I'm just reading something else. I read two things. First of all... The alert in 2007 has never been in order. As a result, it has largely disappeared from the picture. Second. The way in which open parts of penalties have been included in the judicial documentation is particularly important to ensure that they are completed. It'll be registered afterwards. This leads, I read back in the inspection report, to confusion about the status of such a criminal file. That is why we have said: this has to be different; you have to be more clear about the fact that part of it is still open, so that you can act on it as soon as someone comes into contact with the police and the justice system.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u96	I would like to ask the Minister, though I know that this does not fall within his portfolio, but at least under that of his colleague Mr O'Honnell, to discuss this with the Public Prosecutor, because I do not think this is how it actually worked or how the inspection writes it down. I'll just read it out: "If the UJD doesn't mention anything about the execution of a sentence, this means that enforcement hasn't yet been completed." It then reads: "The inspection finds that Philip O.'s UJD contains no information on the implementation of an unconditional PIJ measure." Ergo, it wasn't there and so it wasn't implemented. It could have been seen up to three times. Again, it is not a game of blackbirds about where the mistake was made, but in my opinion this is one of the crucial parts to which the prosecution has overlooked three times that the PIJ measure was not implemented, although it could have been implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u97	Without going into well-being, there was a PJ report at some point in a session where it was also included. So I think you're right that if you had looked carefully or if you had made an extra blow in it, you might have been able to figure it out. At least a PJ rapporteur could have done that. At the same time, I read in the report that the inspection said they were two parts. On the one hand it was the alert and on the other it was the clarification of the judicial information. They say: because of the way it was introduced at the time, it is not ready-to-use. That was the reason for us to change this and to indicate much more clearly whether the measure had been implemented or whether it was still open. This allows you, if someone is arrested on the street, to know if he still has an open sentence, whether it's PIJ or a prison sentence, so you can act on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u98	Yes, it all makes sense. The last thing you're wondering is why it didn't happen that way. My question is about the British. It has just been said that a Member State has a duty to actively share the information with us, but this has not happened here. What happens if a Member State fails to do so? I don't know if he was handcuffed, but at least he was evicted from England and handed over to the Marechaussee at Schiphol. Isn't there a light somewhere? Is there not a duty on us to actively ask the country why it is being deported? Because if that had happened, then the file information would have been more complete again and the consideration that followed could have been different.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u99	Since then, of course, some things have happened; look at ECRIS, which we have introduced into Europe. The exchange of judicial documentation has been speeded up in recent years, making us much more able to look at the files. So I see this point. That was certainly a problem back then, but at the same time I have faith in it now. It does depend on how the Brexit goes, because we say that it is precisely because ECRIS is such a vital thing where we want to work with the British. But you need it to keep that up-to-date documentation in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u100	I agree entirely, but that is not yet an answer to the question of whether there are any authorities here, too. I am leaving in the middle who they are, whether they are military or prosecutors, a duty to try to find out why someone is being deported and handed over to the Marechaussee at Schiphol; whether they are from an EU Member State or not. At least an attempt must be made. I found it rather disgusting to see that the district attorney at the time said via AT5: "You know, if we don't hear anything... It is the duty of the country to report it, and that is it." But I hope it's not like that. How does the cabinet see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u101	It seems pretty logical to me that if someone is handcuffed, you ask what's actually going on with someone like that. The advantage is that we now have a European system in which, at least within the European Union, the registration of what someone has on their hands is better regulated than at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u102	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u103	Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to the careful review. The inspection concludes that Philip O. was not properly prepared for his return during prison. I'm gonna light three things up over there. The inspection is critical of the PC in Vught and the way in which the PC and probation have dealt with the vi's. Two. At the start of the conditional release there was a waiting list for the necessary forensic care and guidance. Three. When it became apparent that the probation could not be supervised properly, that was not addressed to the prosecution, which could have intervened at such a time. Mr. Chairman. The inspection has already been critical of the PC in Vught this year. I therefore find it regrettable that they are now again on the radar, because of a case that played at about the same time. At the same time, Vught is a large p.i., one of our largest, with the most complicated target group in the Netherlands, and one of the largest PCs. Things have been going on there since 2016, since 2017. Improvements have been made to better assess risks. For example, the psychologists in the PC Vught are trained, even when it comes to applying risk assessment, risk thinking. A safe return to society is an important part of detention. To get that right between the ears, that is also actively directed. The way in which the prison in Vught started doing this gives me the confidence in the organization and the improvement that is being made there. Trust is nice, but I also keep a finger on the wrist, including through an investigation that has started on the quality and safety in the PCs. I expect the result of this in 2020. This is quite apart from the fact that, in an earlier debate, I have already promised to check whether the measures put in place, specifically in connection with Michael P., have been properly implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u104	I have a question about that prison in Vught. The Chamber was only informed now, or in November, when we received that report. So it was only then that we knew that Vught was wrong again, that things were not in order there. But the question is actually: did the Minister know, in the debate that we had earlier with the same minister about Michael Panhuis, that there was also a failure in this matter with Philip O.? Because if that were the case, wouldn't it have been nicer for the Minister not to dismiss the problem in Vught in that debate as an incident, but as a much bigger problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u105	I didn't know that, because this report wasn't there yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u106	Having said that, doesn't the Minister think that there was at that time too 'because I assume that after the problems surrounding Michael Panhuis there was talk about what went wrong, even before we had that debate, should it have been said that there were problems at Philip O.? It is, as the Minister himself says, all at the same time. Does the Minister consider that he was properly informed at the time by Vught's management about the actual problems in Vught?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u107	Those problems played out. We knew that at Michael P. This report wasn't there by then. So you can't involve that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u108	I understand this report wasn't there yet. However, I assume that, independently of the report, the Minister also spoke to Vught himself and to the people around Vught in that debate on Michael P., which I believe was then exchanged. The Minister concluded that the Michael P. case was indeed an incident, an incident to be regretted, on which action should be taken. But wasn't the minister at the time of that investigation, so wasn't that report we're discussing today, informed that there were similar problems with another prisoner, Philip O.? Wouldn't the Minister have known that at the time, apart from the investigation that's going on today?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u109	I wasn't informed about that at the time. I didn't need that either to realize that there had to be some improvement in Vught. I did the same in connection with the report on Michael P., which just showed very clearly that there had to be more focus around the PC in Vught, including on these kinds of decisions. Part of that was systematic: how do you deal with the date of a conditional release that is getting closer and closer? We've gone through a whole legal process for that. I'm gonna say something about that later. But it is also the assessment that traders have to make about how to ensure that the conditions are right when someone goes outside. That did not go well at the time, and that was reason for me to take action at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u110	It is still difficult to learn at this point, because on the basis of the file I notice that there are well-nothing games done. For example, the AMC says they didn't get the report because Philip O. didn't give it permission. Then the p.i. said they did, with permission, give the report to the GDD. What's true now? That is important, because otherwise we have to note that the PI Vught was previously engaged in "it wasn't me" games. But we don't really know who the p.i. whether or not Philip O. had the room to say: I don't want it to be shared.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u111	I have to do it with what the inspection says. I have the same unsatisfactory feeling. I would have liked the inspection to have given a clear answer to this. I can see that the inspection itself indicates that the treatment file has apparently been shared with the GDD. In any case, we have made sure that all the uncertainty about whether you can share this kind of thing is cleared up. This is done with the additional Wet forensic care, the repair that is currently in consultation. For the future, we want that well arranged. I may be allowed to make another point, which contains the same well-noneness and which I find unsatisfactory. That is perhaps much more at the heart of the decision that was taken at the time: is Philip O. ready to go into conditional release? The inspection says she doesn't agree with that consideration. It is inimitable on the basis of the reports and the available information. That is, by the way, without the inspection having understood the treatment file. The inspection says that based on what she saw, she could give that judgment. However, DJI says that there was also vital information in the treatment file that was indeed involved in the decision. So there are two different realities there too. I find that unsatisfactory. I said I want a clearer answer to that. DJI said to the inspection and to the Justice Department, "Go to the IGJ." They didn't. Maybe it's not in place to ask the IGJ about that either. But I did order DJI: I want it tested by a third; let a good professor look into whether there is information in the treatment file that sheds another light on the findings of the inspection. Because I want to know. Not even so much because it matters so much for the measures we take, but to learn from them. It's like DJI was right about that treatment information. Maybe there is something in that file that people say: if we had known, it might have been followable. Or a third says, no, even with that information, we still don't think it's a good decision. I need that because I want them in Vught to know exactly what they're up to: whether they're right or not. I can't live with the inspection saying this and the PI Vught saying something else and thinking that she's getting beat up with a critical inspection report while she feels inadequate. That's the situation I want to solve. I'll do it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u112	Very good. I think this is important. I think it should also be possible to get a report on it in due course, if that has happened. That's what I like to hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u113	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u114	Is this also taking into account the problem we saw with the murderer of Anne Faber and now again, namely that a prisoner can apparently say somewhere in a later stage: by the way, I do not want my information to be shared? That really has to stop once and for all. It's not secret information of a prisoner's thoughts in his cell. No, this is information about how someone behaves in a p.i. That's just information from the government that needs to be shared with people who are dealing with his treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u115	I couldn't agree more. In the case of forensic care, we have solved that by now. When it comes to the intersection of detention and punishment, regular care or the civilian part, this is resolved by the Law mandatory ggz. Actually, that goes both ways. Then it is about sharing treatment information with the justice services and, vice versa, sharing information from the Justice Department with the treatment centres.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u116	I want to understand something first. The Minister says that treatment information is not shared with the inspection and Justice Department. I read that, too. Now the minister says he wants an independent professor, a third, to look at that. My question is, then, why is that possible? Is that because he's a medic? I can see the Minister's nodding. You then wonder if that could not have been solved in a certain way during the inspection. But that might be another discussion. The second question, which is perhaps more important, is what the Minister will do if he says, for example, that he does not consider the treatment information to be such that Vught is right. In that case, we have an implementation organisation which, in the terms of Mrs Van Toorenburg, more or less says 'it wasn't me', while the Minister has just told us that he is going to ensure that all those people have to carry it out properly. Then it will be a complicated debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u117	But such a result can help, because if they are wrong, we are of course having a serious discussion. How can it be that traders themselves have the impression that they have done well, while both the inspection and a third party looking at the treatment dossier really come to a different opinion? Then there's something more fundamental wrong. Then I am allowed to be called upon to intervene. At the same time, I also feel that I have a duty to listen to my people, the doctors. They say that the inspection comes to a pretty sharp judgment, but that the other inspections should look into the treatment file, because it contained vital information. We note that this has not happened. And then it sticks. I just want the air cleared up. So it can go one way or the other, or maybe somewhere in between, but I think this point needs to be cleared up, just to learn from it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u118	Not quite the same point, but about the PI Vught, which I asked a question about. I do read in the inspection report that the PI Vught also wanted Philip O. to receive clinical treatment during the last period of detention. That was considered necessary because of concerns about therapy loyalty and medication loyalty. That treatment didn't happen then. Later in the report it says that this had to do with the waiting list for guided housing and outpatient treatment. I wonder how it seems that there is such a mismatch between them. This clinical treatment is needed, it cannot be done, and then there will be a conditional release. How can we prevent something like this from happening in the future, so that someone who needs treatment will not get it, but will still be free?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u119	There were a few things playing there. There was a desire for clinical treatment. At that time, I think a question was asked about an FPA. But because the date of the vi was approaching, the fpa said: the period is too short to be able to treat someone clinically in a good way. In the future, the new Law will allow us to punish and protect the vi-date less harshly. We can then say in a manner of speaking: you start before the vi-date, but if you need more time to treat someone clinically inside, then you take part of the vi-time for that if necessary. So it's gonna be easier later. That hard cut, which you can automatically deviate from only on the basis of a limited number of exceptions, we make more fluid. That's the legal side of the story. Secondly, we saw in this case that, because it ricocheted off, an alternative was sought. That alternative was mediocrity in combination with sheltered living. At some point they ran into waiting lists. My colleague will say something about these waiting lists in general, but we are working very hard to reduce them. This is not so much a financial problem, but it is also very much linked to the labour market. We do not limit the number of places to buy in. What I find very regrettable is to see that where the probation was looking for these places, they did not use the most appropriate counter that has perseverance power, namely the Forensic Placement Window. That's what's in contact with all these institutions. If there is no place at one, then it is tried elsewhere or it goes, if it is an urgent case, on top of the pile. That played here and that later also played at the AMC. But that's the right place to go if, despite waiting lists, you have to bring someone's placement forward. That's gotta be better.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u120	I can go a long way with the Minister's reasoning. This has also been one of the reasons why we have agreed to punish and protect the Act. We believe that rehabilitation and the treatment of people with psychiatric disorders should start as early as possible. I had asked the question: how are we going to do this in concrete terms? But perhaps the Minister will deal with that later. How do we ensure that these people are there in a penitentiary institution, so that treatment can start early and that it is not concluded at the end of detention that the person actually needs treatment, but that no place can be found?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u121	Of course there must be. In that p.i.They're there too; they're in the PC's. There are traders and they are also able and have the capacity to take care of that treatment. I do not know whether we should discuss this in detail here, but that there are waiting lists in forensic care has nothing to do with a money problem, but with the pressure in forensic care to attract the good people. It's a labour market problem. Sometimes you have to apply bypasses or find alternatives to make sure someone ends up okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u122	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u123	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. It is not a question of political action here, but I think that there is also a link between a labour market shortage, a personal shortage and tariffs, because if you raise rates, you can make the work more attractive. In the past, savings have been made, not by this minister, but because of that people have left the sector. If you want to attract people again, you're gonna have to make it more attractive. Higher rates can certainly play a role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u124	I am going to say something about the rates and the discussion that is currently taking place. We have had extensive research carried out. We put extra money into forensic care two years ago, precisely to raise the rates applied at that time. That money went there and that is available until 2021. For 2021, on top of that multi-annual agreement, I raised that amount again by 8 million. So we are really, also financially, a lot bigger than a few years ago. The second is that we then agreed to have the NZa, as an independent market master and the party in the Netherlands that has the knowledge about what healthcare routes should cost, do research into the cost of forensic care. How much is a place in an fpa? How much is a place in a fpk? I see a lot of discussions going on about TBs, again in the newspapers this morning, but that is exactly the part where we do not stand for a purchase. I always wonder how these two things get mixed up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u125	Okay. Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u126	Mr President, perhaps a little longer. Then they come up with maximum rates. Almost all of us apply the NZa's maximum rates. And then we get discussions about it failing. To be honest, I'm a little surprised about that. It could mean there's something wrong with those NZa tariffs. They'll have to go through that trajectory. And if it's modified, we'll follow it. But if you look at the money we put in and the fact that the budgets are not getting smaller, but rather bigger, then I can't put it right that there would suddenly be a problem with forensic care.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u127	All right, I understand that a letter was written about this yesterday. Probably gonna get it to the driver, too. Somewhere in January there will be a general discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u128	Let me ask you a practical question. A problem is of course also that, if you have a p.i., a forensic care clinic and the ggz, there are all different doctors, psychiatrists and psychologists there. I have noticed in the discussions that they do not want to sit in each other's seats and that they do not want to flar each other's expertise. My concern concerns him a little: who is ultimately determining and leading in that? Because I also hear: if my colleague has decided that this is a sensible way, who am I to judge from a distance whether this is in the interests of...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u129	I would say that this must be at the heart of people's professional attitude. On the one hand they have to trust each other and not do the work all over again, but they also have to look at it from their expertise. As an example, the parole board is looking, as Philip O. did, for how best to accommodate someone like that. How can we ensure that the conditions, if they are not available, are filled in as well as possible? Well, then, of course, you do it in conjunction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u130	Then let me put it as a request: would you like to include this element specifically in all the improvement projects that are now available? I heard back from the director of a certain p.i. That's one of his concerns. If that plays a role, it can also play a role in several places.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u131	This is typical because it's about human work. Systems and laws may be in order, but this is the practice in the workplace. I'll take that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u132	Back to what the minister said: if such a prisoner is not quite ready to go back to society and the time is too short to deal with him, then an option to use that conditional release is an option; that is a little extra time. I would like to put another option to the Minister, and I would like his response to that. If someone is in such a prison, after the trial, who is not yet ready to return to society, in a safe way, why doesn't the minister or his people have a new criminal title, not a civil measure, to keep him in prison and treat him there, if necessary, as some kind of extension option? The Ministry must be able to correct any errors made during the error. For example, Philip O.'s mistake was: way too short in jail, completely insane, not ready to return to society. Can the Minister not come up with something to solve this problem by going to court and saying that this person is not ready for society and has to go to jail for a few more years, possibly with treatment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u133	What Mr Markuszower is asking for is partly possible if you look at the duration of the prison sentence. It used to be said in the vast majority of cases that it was a hard vi-date, but you can pull it in. One of the criteria that we give to the public prosecutor in order to make that assessment concerns those social risks. If there really is a real danger, that could be a reason not to send someone with vi. But this kind of punishment also comes up once a hard end date. And then you can't say you're just keeping these people in for a long time. We've got something else. We have the Long-Term Supervision Act, which makes it possible to impose special conditions, for example site bans or treatment obligations. In other words, if there is a real acute danger, someone is a danger to himself and to his environment, then you still have a civil title to secure someone under the law mandatory ggz if there is a real mental disorder. That's not in criminal law, but that's in civil law at the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u134	That title was mentioned earlier in this debate. In my view, this is being used far too little. I'll ask the Minister if he feels the same way. If he thinks so, can we not make an improvement in the law or some kind of combination of that civil measure that already exists and a criminal title, to try to secure such a person after far too short a sentence for a very long, much longer time than that judge had planned? We are not only talking about general things, but also about the Philip O case. Does the Minister agree that his ministry has failed? In this case, an open civil measure should not have been imposed but a closed one. Doesn't the Minister think that was a mistake?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u135	Philip O. was forced to do so. So there too you can see that this is not entirely without risks. My colleague has just indicated that the imposition of forced measures on the civilian route has doubled over the last 15 years. So it is not the case that we have begun to make less use of it. We have made much more use of it, but you are, of course, imposing a very radical measure. Then there's got to be something going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u136	Finally, Mr. Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u137	Finally. I don't know all those doubles. I don't know those cases, but in this case it wasn't that profound at all, because it wasn't closed and he was actually walking around freely. He could swing a knife at one of those clinics during treatment, and then nothing happens. So that measure is not so far-reaching. The tools, the handles we have now, apparently aren't enough. That is why I say: perhaps it is a good idea to look at the measure that exists now and to add some sort of criminal route to it, so that we can hold on to someone much more strictly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u138	I do not deny that those mistakes have been made, because that is what the two reports show. This also applies to the issue of leave on the civilian route, but I think my colleague will say something about it later. This is without prejudice to my proposal to consider how to make better use of the options that already exist rather than putting up a huge Christmas tree with all kinds of new measures. I have a strong impression that things might have turned out differently if they had taken advantage of the opportunities offered by the authorities. That's what the report shows. What we are proposing to you now is that we look at where it really needs to be closed: what do we really need new rules, where do things stand in the way, for example, of information sharing, a vi-date too hard, or the much more central organisation of all signals about punishments that are still open? You really need to adjust the systems to that. But if the analysis is that the systems are there but are not used, then you should not put new systems next to them, but make sure they are used. And that, in my opinion, is the line that, even the fastest, can lead to results.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u139	Apart from the systems, the rules, the powers and the money, the Minister pointed out something very important: the problem is also very often that the people we need are missing. This also sometimes explains the capacity shortage. I go a lot further into that: that can of course also undermine the quality. If a tbs-set constantly comes into contact with another handler and another team, an effective behavior intervention in such a person is more difficult. Now I want to challenge the cabinet a little bit. We see staff shortages in several sectors, but forensic care is a concern that affects the safety of all of us. So I really hope to see a little more commitment from the cabinet when it comes to seducing people to work there. When I speak to the sector, I hear that sometimes people have to spend a very long time in institutions to get a labour market allowance, to grant a moving allowance and that sort of thing. I understand that something of a task force is or is being set up on this point. What does the Cabinet do about this? There are staff shortages, but it's not quite a natural phenomenon that's happening to us either. You might as well try to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u140	Exactly by putting action on this: how do you make it attractive, how do you show how beautiful it is to work in forensic care? Yes, it is, I think, the most complicated target group we have in Holland, but some people see it as a challenge to do something good there. I can imagine that very well. I think it's fantastic work. If things go wrong, it leads to big headlines, but fortunately, in many cases, things are going well. I often point that out in tbs discussions: look how much misery it saves us that we in the Netherlands have good forensic care. A year and a half ago I agreed with GGZ Nederland and with all these agencies not only that we would put extra money into the system, but also that we should do more to make working there attractive. The two most important things are actually next. One is reducing the administrative burden of regulation. It often leads people to say: what am I wasting my time with; if it can be less, please. Two is that we need to do exactly what we need to do to make these labour market perspectives more interesting. They're working very hard on that. At the same time, I can see that the debate as it is currently taking place is not helping in this respect either. So I'm a little bummed about that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u141	The minister was just looking at what we can do when a sentence ends, when we feel like someone needs to be placed somewhere else. In that light, I should like to know what is going on with the implementation of the motion adopted last April. He asked to look at a conditional tbs, as is known in Germany. There's always some kind of tbs hanging over someone's head somewhere. Do we have a little insight into what's going on?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u142	I believe that I have sent a rather comprehensive letter on this subject, in which I have also worked out this option, including the Erasmus University research into the different scenarios and ideas that were then launched by you, but also by a number of others in this house and by the Upper Chamber. That also placed a number of legal hooks and eyes in this variant. Then we said: we must ensure that there is not only conditional TBs, but that judges can come to a better judgment by clarifying the final basis in the law. We see carefully that it also helps, in the sense that we now see more often tbs imposed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u143	When was that letter sent to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u144	I'm gonna take a look at the prison. When was that letter sent? That's what I'm looking up. In the second term, I will return to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u145	I think I know what the Minister is talking about, but I made it clear that people are still looking at what we can learn from it. I wonder if there's anything more on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u146	I'll check it out. I will return to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u147	You'll get back to that. Then Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u148	I have another question about the mistake that was made in the PI Vught at that parole. Philip O. had no permanent residence or residence. He was on a waiting list for forensic care. The result was: you still get conditional release, even if you have no permanent residence or place of residence and no treatment. That's been a real blunder. The Minister now says: "We are doing a lot about it. PI Vught is learning in that. We now have a forensic placement window. That's where it should have been reported, and then we can see where someone can go." But does that offer a solution for all cases? After all, we also know that there are still waiting lists. I would like to hear the Secretary of State about what is going to be done there and when that is resolved, because in a rich country like the Netherlands we simply should not have waiting lists and ensure that everyone has a place to stay, also to exercise supervision. But knowing that there are still waiting lists, is that forensic placement window a solution for all cases? In other words, can the Minister rule out the possibility that dangerous people like this will not be admitted anywhere?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u149	I can't rule it out, but where I see things didn't go well here is like this. At some point, protected living was not available. Then the parole board went looking, and I really think it was with the very best of intentions. But that wasn't taken back to DJI back then, where that forensic counter was. By the way, that also existed back then. That's a place for situations where you're just really stuck with someone under your arm. The buyers are there, too. They could say, if you can't get to this place, we're gonna do it in that place. And if there's waiting lists everywhere and it's really an acute case, they put someone on top of the pile. And unfortunately, I just have to say that it didn't happen here. If that had happened, it might have been possible to find a solution here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u150	Maybe, but maybe not. That is why it is of the utmost importance that there should be no or minimum waiting lists.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u151	I couldn't agree more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u152	Anyway, we'll hear about that from the Secretary of State. I also have a question about tariffs. I know it keeps coming back, but it's also in this debate... I think it is a complicated discussion in this debate. I also understand what the Minister says about that. I am not going to talk at all about the turn-offs or about the 10% added or about the Dutch Healthcare Authority. That is all very complex; we will come back to that another time. However, seven institutions, which I believe represent 30% of the treatment capacity, warn us in a letter to the Chamber: "The rates are not sufficient now. That could lead to longer waiting lists and fewer staff. This may mean that people cannot be placed in the right place and that we must refuse people." That has precisely to do with the subject of this debate. Does the Minister understand that I am very concerned when I get letters of this kind and there is an interim ruling in January, when it is actually the problem of this debate, namely someone who does not get to the right place? When providers write to us that tariffs are not sufficient, I am surprised that the Minister says that he is very surprised.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u153	I understand you're worried. I would, I think, have done so as a Member of Parliament if such a procedure were to be initiated and I would receive such a letter. As a Member of Parliament, I would ask the Minister: what exactly is going on? I sent you a detailed letter yesterday, in which I think I showed you a few things. We're gonna talk about some of those surcharges later, but I think 95% of the things we do are really on the maximum rates. That's not how it goes in other places in the care: that you start at the maximum rate and then go see if you can get something under it. We have simply said to the healthcare institutions: we are taking the maximum rates as a starting point. We're not cutting the money we're spending this year for forensic care; we're taking that to next year and we're doing a plus on that because of the indexation and volume growth. I just don't understand that if you get out this year, it would be a problem next year. Now there are a number of pluses and minuses in those rates. For some treatment sites, according to the Dutch Healthcare Authority, we should spend more money on other treatment sites, according to the NZa it could be a little less. How exactly that works out for an individual institution, I find it difficult to see. That's gonna vary a bit. Some might end up in the plus and some might end up in the minus, but it's not like we're really cutting those maximum rates.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u154	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u155	Mr. Chairman. We were at the review. I'm going through SenB fast, because we've had that debate. In any case, this makes it much easier to link the period before and after vi with each other. We have also discussed the waiting lists in detail. I've been asked what you can do to escalate into this kind of business. If vi conditions are violated or probation is not sufficiently supervised, escalation is necessary. Mr Van Wijngaarden already indicated that such a person would have to go back to prison. At some point you must say: you do not meet your conditions, so we are going to implement. For that, we need to put the DA in a good position. If conditions are violated, that requires a better feedback from the parole to the D.A. But this also applies to the fact that soon, with the new USB Act and the new Act, it will be possible to punish and protect more quickly, I say in the direction of Mrs Van Toorenburg, because she asked how we can ensure speed in implementation. Soon, in the new Law SenB, it won't have to go past the judge, but the D.A. can decide for himself and there's an appeal to the judge. Well, at least you're gonna take that last step out. But until then, we won't sit still. We sit around the table with parties to see what we can do to ensure that the time limits laid down in the criminal proceedings regulations on how much time can go before anything comes to trial are better respected. Right now, those conversations are going on. Mr. Chairman. We have had a more complete picture and a more careful monitoring and a more careful consideration. The third point is a clearer direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u156	Good. But before you bring that up, Mrs Van Toorenburg has a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u157	In the horrible Pathé murder, where a couple was killed in a cinema, it turned out to be a tul-session, but it lasted and it lasted and it only lasted. Are we going to solve this as soon as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u158	That element is not in SenB, because this is about the vi and pulling that part. This was a suspension of remand. There's still that legal move in there. I would like to assure you that I would be happy to see with the D.A. and the ZM what we need to do to speed up that point too, because there's just too much time going on. If probation and the D.A.'s office say something's going on, there shouldn't be months before anything goes to trial.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u159	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u160	Clear direction. In practice, a suspect or a convicted person is forced into a care facility. An example is a situation in which the provisional detention is lifted but the suspect still faces urgent psychiatric problems. If an inmate goes with a vi disorder, special conditions may be attached to it that include forensic care. That could be a mandatory treatment. If someone does not comply with that, then a vi may be withdrawn. But it also happens that the mental problems become acute during a vi, for example, and that then a forced inclusion under the BOPZ Act and later the compulsory ggz Act is considered necessary. That's what you saw in this case. Suddenly, that psychosis occurred. Then they looked into what had to be done. Are we on the criminal circuit or the civil circuit? And then the latter was chosen. That is a decision which the JenV inspection says of: we think it can be followed. At such a time, the criminal route and the regular care provision come together. The member Van Toorenburg asked about the suspensive effect of a forced recording on the vi. Now the law provides that during a forced admission the probationary period of the vi is not run. Therefore, there is no mandatory probation supervision. If someone commits a criminal offence during such a forced admission, the prosecution can of course decide to prosecute. Converging a criminal route and a care pathway therefore also calls for clear direction, good cooperation and clear agreements between authorities. This was missing in the case of Philip O. In order to get the most complete picture possible, authorities should not only know each other and find each other, but also professionals should know what possibilities and how they can make use of them. The law on compulsory ggz does offer opportunities for this. To establish that connection, we have Article 2.3 of the Forensic Care Act and the Mental Health Act, which will enter into force simultaneously on 1 January 2020. The Secretary of State is going to say a few words about that. I'm going to confine myself to the role of the D.A. as a procedural director in the whole. The compulsory ggz Act makes it very clear that the medical director is responsible for the care and that the prosecutor is in charge of the process. This means that the D.A. must manage a request for a forced care authorisation. With this new law and the new possibilities it contains, the prosecution provides the medical director with the relevant data from the judicial domain so that he can involve them in his judgment. And the D.A.'s office, together with the medical director, will ensure that the judge gets a full and up-to-date file. In line with the Law on compulsory ggz, the Article 2.3 of the Forensic Care Act also enters into force. That can also be very useful here. This article therefore does not confer on the criminal court the power to issue a mandatory health authorisation under the compulsory ggz Act. Such authorisation of care is then imposed instead of, next to or following a punishment or a measure. This power therefore contributes to making more customisation and not having to make such a decision in a crisis, but it can also do so if you continue to complete the criminal justice process. It contributes to the fact that someone ends up in the right place when a criminal has to make a decision. That could be in punishment or care. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked: was there no obligation for a case officer to have contact with the BOPZ officer and is that now being resolved? What I have just indicated also means that it is necessary for better coordination to take place within the Public Prosecutor's Office. When a question of concern arises within an ongoing vi, the Public Prosecutor will have to assess it on the basis of all the individual facts and circumstances of the case. The Office may then assess whether this should lead to the amendment of the special conditions or the withdrawal of the document which is the criminal route or whether a care authorisation under the Law is required by the ggz.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u161	I also see you, Mrs Van Toorenburg, but I would like to ask the Minister to conclude this point. Or were you already done, I'll ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u162	Yeah, I'm done at this point when it comes to the role of the D.A. in the mandatory ggz Act. I think that the law on compulsory ggz will be dealt with in a broader context.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u163	Is this what this is about, Mrs Van Toorenburg?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u164	My question was as follows. If a person is found on the street so confused that a recording, an ibs, is in reason, then the inspection says that there is not even a check at the D.A.'s office whether anything is open, and we have a pattern. I'm gonna need that scorched shut, too. That's what the inspection warns of. They couldn't recommend it, because they're not about the D.A.'s office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u165	If I read it correctly, the inspection writes the following at that point. Someone ends up in a crisis situation, is psychotic and is in a vi. Then, at that moment, the state's attorney's office stands at a crossroads: what are we gonna do? Are we gonna call back the vi and someone's gonna go back to jail? Or do we take a crisis measure in the context of the BOPZ, which will soon be the compulsory ggz Act? I read from the inspection report that they say: okay, the latter has been chosen and we can follow that. I'm just saying it in my own words. I think this in itself does justice to reality. At such a time, you always have to ask yourself what is the most appropriate route: compulsory psychiatric admission, or back to prison.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u166	No, because it says: when a civil measure is imposed during a vi, it is not mandatory or usual for the case officer and the BOPZ officer to have contact with each other to coordinate those routes. That's what the inspection says. That is a bit contrary to what the Minister is saying now, namely that they are going to see together which route is best. They don't even have contact; that's not common. That's weird, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u167	We solve this with the mandatory ggz Act, which clarifies the role of the prosecutor much more. We'll take care of that. What I mean is this. If someone ends up in a crisis situation, it will not always automatically be the case that the person concerned, if he is still in the vi, will go back to prison. It may also mean that someone is so terribly confused, that you say: someone must be forced into psychiatric care, in a psychiatric hospital or in a psychiatric institution. That's the right place to be when someone's in extreme psychosis, because there's the best guys there to help someone like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u168	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u169	Then there are a number of things about the procedure of the inspection. There's actually three things that stand out. Firstly, cooperation between inspections. Although safety and care come together in Philip O.'s case, there are now two different reports on one and the same case. That had something to do with the order of things in this case. The IGJ had already started and the Inspection JenV started later. It was difficult to put that together, but if you ask me, I believe Mr Van Nispen asked you, "wouldn't you rather have seen it together?', Then my answer is yes. That is one of the reasons why we have also agreed to look at it, because we see that it can be done in other places. The Michael P. report was a joint report. We see a great deal of cooperation in the field of youth. So that can be done fine and we are going to see how, in future, these two inspections can also be brought together more. The member Van Wijngaarden asked why the inspection did not inform the Health and Youth Inspectorate. I think we had that discussion. That was partly unclear, but I hope that the professor we asked for will be able to say more in the near future. As soon as we know more about this, I will of course come back to you. There was also the question why former employees were not questioned. That is a question from Mr Grothuizen. The inspection is free to do so. They've made the decision here not to. If I read the report in this way, but then I'm going to fill out a bit of what kind of work the inspection has done, I wonder: would the findings of the inspection on that decision, whether or not vi and under what conditions, have been very different if they had also questioned the people who had worked with Philip O. at the time? In part, the people who still worked there have been questioned. Some of the files have been looked at. There is no clear picture of this. Of course, you could've asked other people outside the organization, but I honestly don't know if that had led to a completely different final judgment. Carefully speculating, I don't think. Mr. Chairman. This concerns the working methods and cooperation of the inspection. The second point is the findings of the JenV inspection on victim care. Mrs Van Toorenburg drew attention to this and I believe that Mrs Kuik also hinted at that. The inspection tried to involve the victim care to Joost Wolters' next of kin, but little came of it. And that wasn't the next of kin, so let's put it first. In the end, the inspection did not publish anything about this, because it would not do justice to the situation and to the feelings of the next of kin. I find that, quite frankly, very unfortunate. Joost Wolters' next of kin talked to the inspection about that and it wasn't easy for them. They did it anyway, because they hoped they could help others with that. That conversation has not resulted in findings, and I find that, frankly, disappointing. The inspection did learn from it. I also had a one-on-one meeting with the Inspector General. In 2020, she will conduct a thematic investigation into victim care and work on a good review framework, so that the organisations dealing with victims, whether it be the Public Prosecutor's Office or the police or other organisations, can also be placed along a good measuring bar. I hope that will really lead to a better result next time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u170	The Minister says it carefully, but there is a great deal of suffering in that process. Let us also make it clear that the next of kin even needed legal assistance in order to eventually achieve such a flutalinea. The concept was really terrible! [[Sentence could not be parsed: Mag ik de toezegging van de minister dat in ieder geval iedere euro die aan rechtsbijstand is betaald om dit netjes voor elkaar te krijgen, door het ministerie wordt vergoed?]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u171	I don't quite understand what you're saying about legal aid. I'm talking to the next of kin. If that's the point, I'd like to take it with me. Let's get to the bottom of this. Wouldn't it have been nice if there hadn't been just an inspection report on what all the agencies around Philip O. have done? This will at least allow us to see where things have not gone well and where we can learn from. But I had also hoped to get some sort of second part of that inspection report, which would deal much more with how all these bodies have dealt with the victims and their families. I think we can learn from this, too, because my conversations with the next of kin have given me the impression that a lot of things have not gone well. They're not in this report. I find it really just disappointing, a missed opportunity, you could say, that we do not have it in writing and that is why we cannot learn anything from it. We'll have to do better next time. Mr. Chairman. What can help is Mr Van Wijngaarden's suggestion for some sort of victim Commissioner. They know that in a number of countries around us. I have, I believe, looked at this before, also in response to Mrs Van Toorenburg. At that time, I did not see a great deal of added value in it, but I would like to take that up again. You can see that it might have helped in these cases if there had been a separate body, not with a huge organisation behind it, but just someone you can go to, between the Ombudsman on the one hand and the Public Prosecutor's Information Office on the other, so that that too is well secured. I'm gonna see if there's any added value. That's what I'm talking about. Mr. Chairman. The third point that we notice when reading this report and many questions have been asked about is the Public Prosecutor's Office. Unlike DJI and probation, the Public Prosecutor's Office is not under the supervision of the inspection. It's also legally regulated. That has a background; it has to do with the majestic role of the Public Prosecutor as it has been established. That doesn't mean the D.A. isn't under surveillance. That surveillance runs along three lines. First, the judge's test in individual criminal matters. Secondly, the pg supervises the exercise of OM duties at the Supreme Court. That pg can also investigate cross-cutting issues, for example, take the discussion about the OM-penalties decisions. And third, this year, the Public Prosecutor's Office has set up a flexiroom to get critical feedback from scientists, lawyers and police officers. That can help, too. Those three lines are currently being worked on, also by the Public Prosecutor's Office, in critical consideration of his own actions. Now the question was to me: if you read that report, in which no judgment has been given on the Public Prosecutor's Office, don't you think there are things in there that the Public Prosecutor has also dropped? Honesty requires saying: yes, on a number of points. I do not know if it would have made a huge difference, in the sense that it was one of the agencies where things did not go well either. But I'll get them back. Take, for example, the request for advice from the CVvi, which was neatly there on the desk within 105 days, but did not ultimately lead to an opinion. A small example, and I think there are a number of other examples to give. So, yeah, I see them. I've also discussed this with the state's attorney's office. They too must learn from what is in this report. Then there is the question of whether the regulations of the inspection should not be adapted in such a way that the inspection also supervises the action of the Public Prosecutor's Office, as well as it does on, for example, DJI, police and probation. Perhaps I could invite you to discuss this with my colleague, Mr Grapperhaus, next week. I'm saying that because I can imagine it on the one hand. This need not always and immediately affect the majestic role of the Public Prosecutor's Office. At the same time, we must also be careful not to stack supervision at the Public Prosecutor's Office. There are now layers of supervision at the D.A.'s office that other organizations don't have, and you're gonna get a hell of a lot of shit if you put this on top of it. I would prefer to look at this in conjunction with the minister responsible for the prosecution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u172	I actually want to know how far you are with answering the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u173	I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u174	You're done. Then I'm going to see Mr Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Minister says that he also spoke to the Public Prosecutor's Office on the basis of this report. Can the Minister now inform the Chamber of what the Public Prosecutor's Office said about this matter after that discussion or during that discussion? What mistakes do they recognise themselves and what improvements do they say they are going to tackle themselves? So that is not in the reports, but perhaps the Minister can give a little openness as to what was exchanged in that discussion and what arrangements were made.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u176	That's what the letter says, and we'll just come back to that. Take, for example, the third point I have just mentioned: the stronger direction of the Public Prosecutor's Office at that crossroads of punishment and care. This is what the compulsory ggz Act will play a very important role in the future. That means that the D.A. has to do things differently at that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u177	The Minister himself says that mistakes have been made, including by the D.A.'s office. I myself said, for example, that the prosecutors did not have the file in order during the trial and, therefore, presented a very wrong picture of the perpetrator, which meant that the demand was far too low and that the sentence was far too low. Those kinds of mistakes are not dealt with in the letter. I'm just curious to see what the D.A. has said about all those mistakes in that trial and about things other than that letter, because that's very little. What else are they gonna do about that conversation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u178	Mr Markuszower is now commenting on the prosecution's trial, and this inspection report does not make any comment, not in a judgmental or descriptive sense. I cannot, therefore, make a statement about this with that report in hand. I think we shouldn't want that either. There are things about the Public Prosecutor's Office that I do not think are at all about the performance and judgment in the individual case, but which are much more about the organisation. The question is whether this is being learned and my answer is yes. I was just setting an example. For example, there are still one or two examples in it. We've certainly gotten through that with the D.A. to see what it takes to do better in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u179	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u180	Okay. Then I conclude that the Minister has not spoken thoroughly enough with the Public Prosecutor's Office, that the structural errors that lie with that organisation have not been discussed and are therefore not being addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u181	Mr Markuszower talks about structural errors. I also believe, in the rule of law, that we have a separation between the executive and the judiciary. The Public Prosecutor's Office is part of that judiciary. So when it comes to prosecution decisions and what happens in court, I am reluctant to stick these kinds of judgments and stickers on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u182	No, Mr. Markuszower. Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u183	Locking up. This isn't about the prosecution decision. It's fixed. The point is, they didn't even have the file in order. Isn't that something that doesn't even touch the separation of powers? Isn't that something the minister can expect from the state's attorney's office, that they have the files in order and that they're going to one of those cases with a file? That's something the minister should address, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u184	Of course, the files must be in order, but I do not read anything about them in this report.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u185	Then there is Mr Groothuizen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u186	Let's talk about the D.A.'s oversight. Yeah, there's a pg at the Supreme Court. In my view, it is mainly looking at compliance with legal requirements. By the way, that's one person and I think he has one or maybe two people's support, but that's about it. We have that judicial supervision, but indeed we are dealing with individual criminal cases and a lot never comes to court. In addition, we know that the review framework is seriously restricted by the judges: 359a. And so not the inspection. Then you've got a lot of things that don't come out of it, don't you? A study has also been carried out by the WODC in which this is put forward, when it comes to the use of investigative powers, victim care and execution. We'll be done with that soon. There are a lot of things out there. Of course, I would like to have that discussion with Minister Grapperhuis next week, but doesn't the cabinet have an idea of how we can fill these gaps? The Minister himself says that he sees them, but then it stays a bit up to date.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u187	The law now says that the inspection is not allowed to monitor the public prosecutor's actions because of all the other layers of surveillance. I do not think we can ask the inspection to do this in any other way, despite the fact that it is in the law. Your question to me was: if you read between the lines, or actually if you look at the facts, don't you see that things might have had to be different and better at the Public Prosecutor's Office? I can see that. That alone does not lead to a finding or a recommendation to the Public Prosecutor. There's two things. Of course, we'll discuss that with them. It's not like we're not doing anything with it because it's not in the inspection report. Two is more fundamental: shouldn't you ask the inspection to supervise this kind of thing in the Public Prosecutor's Office? I am not immediately opposed to this, but I find it difficult in this debate to see exactly the coherence between all the other supervisory bodies in the Public Prosecutor's Office, and the question whether both the stacking of a judge and the pg and a number of other quality criteria, on top of that, is really proportional and is going to work. My proposal would be to discuss that in full with Ferd Grapperhaus.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u188	Rounding up. We're definitely gonna do that. At least I'm gonna do that. A thought could also be to see if the role of the pg might or should not be greater.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u189	It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u190	I see what the legal limitation is now, but we can adapt it. An inspection doesn't always do research either. This is, of course, about very specific matters, such as the death of Joost in the case of the metro, but also in the case of Anne Faber and a number of other important matters. There the inspection already makes a number of findings, but they should not finish them with recommendations. In other words, I would like to call on the Minister not to make things more complicated than is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u191	I can see that right away. That is why my answer is that I do not reject it in advance. All I can see is that the law is blocking it now. That has a background: that has to do with the majestic role of the Public Prosecutor. That is why there are other supervisors, including the pg at the Supreme Court. I can imagine, however, that discussion with my colleague, Mr Groothuizen, is also taking place that either we can make it possible for the inspection to say something about this kind of thing, or perhaps, as Mr Groothuizen pointed out, we can broaden the role of the pg, so that it can look at this kind of thing. I find that very difficult to consider, because I am unable to oversee the other supervisory instruments in the Public Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u192	I do not see the broadening of the role of the pg, because it has a different role. We will be tabling a motion in which we will appoint the role of the inspection, and I am sure we will order Minister Grapperhaus to come to the ice next week, so that we can do business quickly. I would ask the Minister to give that to his colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u193	I think everyone's listening.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u194	I think this is the moment I'm going to hand over the stick.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u195	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u196	Mr President, thank you very much. The reason for this debate is terrible for all concerned. My thoughts and sympathy also go out in the first place to the next of kin of Joost Wolters. They're here. I would like to wish his friend Annemiek, his sister Saskia and of course his parents and the absent son, and the other family and those involved. We need to look openly at what has happened and, above all, draw lessons from it for the future, particularly in terms of improving the quality of care, and secondly, cooperation between partners in the field of criminal law and care. The two investigations carried out, namely the investigation of the care provided by the AMC on behalf of the Health and Youth Inspectorate and the investigation of the Justice and Security Inspectorate into the entire judicial pathway of Philip O., should lead to significant improvements, especially in the care sector. Both inspections provide advice on the regular ggz. I shall deal with the way in which this imitation has taken place, in the order in which I have referred to it. Firstly, cooperation agreements with chain partners, especially forensic chain partners. Secondly, to scale up or escalate in the event of complex care problems. Thirdly, professional secrecy. Fourthly, risk assessment and, therefore, leave policy. Finally, declaration policy. Mr. Chairman. The IGJ assessed the improvements made by the AMC on the spot. It has established that the improvement plan with appropriate improvement measures to better ensure the safety of patients, employees and society has been fully implemented and has become part of the regular working method in the AMC. It is good to note that the AMC has therefore worked on the recommendations and lessons learned from this terrible situation. Then the advice of the Justice and Security Inspectorate. In the report of that inspection, one recommendation was made towards the regular ggz, namely to GGZ Nederland. That recommendation is: make sure that ggz institutions are aware of the opportunities for placement in a forensic institution and know how to do this. This has been taken very seriously. Good agreements have been made at the AMC on the transition from care to safety, to forensic care, and vice versa. But this has to be a broad culture throughout the ggz. That is what I am talking about with GGZ Nederland, to whom the recommendation is addressed. This is also taken seriously by GGZ Nederland. By means of a newsletter, all their members, all of them, have stressed the information available on the website of the Continuity of Care programme. I promise the Chamber that I will continue to talk to GGZ Nederland to bring this point to the fore, so that the learning effect of this horrible situation is not limited to the AMC, but extends to the entire ggz. Mr. Chairman. I would like to address a number of specific points raised by the spokesmen, as far as they have not yet been answered by my colleague, Mr Dekker. Mr Dekker has already said a few things about better communication between care and security, but I would like to address in particular the question of how it was possible to impose Ibs and what the improvement process is there. Mrs Van Toorenburg asked how Ibs could have been imposed and Mrs Kuik asked if the new law required ggz looked at whether there were criminal pastimes. The inspection JenV describes in its report on pages 46 and 47 the context in which an isb was imposed on Philip O. on 9 May 2017. The Justice and Security Inspectorate notes that the points of reference for a criminal intervention were missing and finds the decision to apply for an ibs in the light of the question of care a "understandable and follow-up decision'. But Mrs Van Toorenburg rightly believes that Philip O. should not have been imposed on Ibs in this case, because he was sufficiently aggressive for criminal intervention. The question I hear behind her comments is whether the psychiatrists who judged Philip O. had sufficient information for those ibs. Or perhaps the question is whether psychiatrists have enough information today or tomorrow. In the case of Philip O., we can clearly say: no, the psychiatrists did not have enough information. At this point, fortunately, we have learned a bit from terrible incidents from the past. The compulsory ggz Act provides for the following information to be made available to the evaluating psychiatrist in the preparation for compulsory care. Firstly, the relevant police changes, judicial and criminal data of the person concerned. Secondly, the history of care, information on the judicial authorisations and detentions previously issued for the data subject under the regime of the BOPZ Act, and soon under the functioning of the Law mandatory ggz, the authorisation of care and the crisis measures. It is a transitional regime, as you know. But this is explicitly stated in the Law mandatory gzz. In crisis situations, the mayor is given access to the healthcare history and the psychiatrist about the relevant police and judicial data of the person concerned. The psychiatrist's gonna have to get that from the district attorney's office. So that requires an active deployment of the psychiatrists. Partly on the basis of these data, the independent psychiatrist writes a medical statement about the current state of health of the person concerned and whether his behaviour due to his mental illness results in serious harm. There is also a mirrored provision in the mandatory ggz Act. That is the safety net article on the basis of which the medical director, the caretaker, the mayor, the police and the prosecutor can share data with each other to the extent strictly necessary to avert or limit serious harm. Then it becomes simply the starting point that data, including medical data, can be shared. Mr Groothuizen asked the question: no one wanted him; did the AMC do enough? I think there's a question from the VVD, Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u197	But were you done with this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u198	Yeah, I started the next question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u199	Mr Van Wijngaarden.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u200	Something interesting is happening here. The Secretary of State mentioned the data contained in the law. He used the phrase "to the extent strictly necessary to avert danger'. He said something like that. And then he said, "The starting point will be that the data will be shared." Again you can see that there can be quite a tension between how we prefer to think it is and how it is in the law. This can also raise questions in practice with the professionals mentioned by the Secretary of State. Does the Secretary of State agree with the VVD that there is still a heavy task for the cabinet to ensure that what seems better regulated on paper is actually going to fly into practice and land? What level of ambition do you use?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u201	The answer to that last question is yes. When I say that data sharing is the starting point, I do not mean that every case that is discussed in the health and safety houses is covered by all medical data. Even if medical data is shared, only the data will be shared where relevant. What I meant to say was that the starting point is that if this consultation takes place between care and safety, we want a culture in which the people representing the medical corner will feel more compelled to provide medical information. We need to do that based on a risk assessment. The sector itself has formulated the risk assessment tool. It has formulated its own considerations on the basis of which data sharing is to be carried out. Then it gets exciting, because the question is when you're going to share that data. I believe that the safety net clause as formulated in the mandatory ggz Act has not come out of the sky. It has been created precisely from the practice we have seen, namely that too little has been shared. It is already big profit that the care side is also more clearly positioned in the care and safety houses. This should lead to a culture in which the relevant actors are more likely to share.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u202	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u203	Finally. In response to culture. I fully agree with that, but how is the Secretary of State going to put his hands on it together with the sector, so that this can also be learned in training, continuing training and further training? It's a huge cultural change you can't make in one year. That's gonna take a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u204	I would have liked to answer that question a few paragraphs down the road, but I will take it with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u205	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u206	Mr Van Wijngaarden has asked compelling questions about this: what kind of assistance do you have for care professionals to move with that culture, how do we give them comfort in it and to what extent are they trained? I think Mr Van Wijngaarden even asked if the healthcare professionals were all trained. By the way, Mr Van Wijngaarden was not the only one to draw attention to this. Mr Van Nispen and Mr Groothuizen have also drawn attention to this. In response to this, the following. A psychiatrist is primarily a medical specialist who has to assess whether there are mental disorders that require treatment. Secondly. A mandatory part of the training of each psychiatrist is to participate in the emergency psychiatric course, involving matters such as security, chain partners, professional secrecy, risk assessment and crisis interventions. That's basic. That's in every psychiatrist's training. The profession is very active in this area itself. Handouts have been prepared by the professional groups themselves, namely by the NVvP, the dome of the psychiatrists, and by GGZ Nederland, the trade association of all ggz institutions. They're working on it very actively. Those handouts are here. They're working on it, too. A good example of this is the autumn symposium of the NVvP entitled Safety and Psychiatry. This was held on 8 November, just a month ago. At that congress of the NVvP were among others speakers of police, forensic psychiatry, psychiatry and the Research Council for Security. In addition, there are specific courses throughout the country to get this right. In short, this has a lot of attention, not only in basic training, but also constantly. In my view, this should provide a good basis for realising this culture. I'm going to answer the question I just formulated, but I haven't answered it yet. Mr Grothuizen says: no one wanted Philip O.; did the AMC do enough? That's the answer I gave for this. In the context of ibs, the AMC had to record Philip O. It became clear that O. wasn't in place at the AMC. That soon became clear. The AMC tried to get O. placed in a forensic clinic of Inforsa, but he was refused because there was no room. The report shows that the probation was asked to look for a solution, but that did not yield any results. The IGJ concluded on the basis of the independently guided research commissioned by the IGJ that there was no proper action. That was just a harsh conclusion. At this point is not well acted on by the AMC. In an improvement plan, the AMC had to indicate in concrete terms how it was intended to give hands and feet in the future. We also see that the IGJ showed her teeth, because in the first step the plan that the AMC wrote was not sufficient in the IGJ's view. Secondly, that was the case, because then concrete agreements were made with Arkin and Inforsa to allow transfers to take place in case of calamities. Mr. Chairman. I would like to address the issue of medical professional secrecy, but I think I need to answer a few questions first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u207	I would very much like to know how far you are in your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u208	I have the themes of medical confidentiality, waiting lists in care, purchase of secure beds, and when does the ggz go on leave? I'd like to answer those questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u209	Okay, then I'll go to Mr. Markuszower.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u210	I think my question fits the previous two cubes. I said in my speech that I think, for example, that the AMC was not at all equipped to deal with Philip O. Actually, so does the Secretary of State. He also says, however, that there is some kind of obligation to treat these kinds of patients, which is what we call them, and I call them dangerous offenders. I have a question for the future. Can the Secretary of State promise that in future, from now on, criminal offences will always be reported in the GD clinics? I'm referring to an incident that occurred a few weeks before Philip O. Joost killed Wolters. Then there was an incident with a knife. We could read that today in De Telegraaf. That Philip O. was waving a knife and threatening people. It seems to me that this should have been reported. That probably didn't happen. There's been no report. I would like to make a commitment that from now on this is standard practice: always report offences committed by those dangerous offenders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u211	Where the questioner calls "GGD clinics," he probably means ggz clinics. We're talking about the same thing. He says that a criminal incident must be reported; that must be the culture. My primary reaction is that I wholeheartedly endorse that, that I want to do so and that I want to promote it. If it is more complicated in practice than I think it is now, I will come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u212	I'm just trying to get this straight. Justice says the AMC approached a forensic facility. That must have been in FORZA, I guess. But then he wasn't formally registered. Maybe that's because FORZA said there was no place for him. Is that why there's no formal application?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u213	Yeah, that's just where zero was given on the rehearsal. The AMC is then told in the IGJ's report that one should have kept trying and that one should have gone to the Forensic placement window. Apparently, the AMC didn't know that way or didn't know it. That goes wider in the ggz, so a recommendation from the IGJ is that it needs to be rolled out wider. That's how it happened. Therefore, no use has been made of the possibilities that existed. A notification at the placement window could probably have led to a different outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u214	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u215	Once so, but then I find it strange that the initial reason for my question was that the AMC says in the media that none of the other parties accepted responsibility. "The treatment workers (...) get the feeling that O. is a "hot potato" that has been pushed through." If you do something once, it actually doesn't do well and then says it's a hot potato that the others didn't want, then it dissonates a little with the inspection's conclusion that they didn't do well themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u216	If you ask at one or two forensic clinics if they have room and you get to hear "no" say "hold that hot potato with you" you can say: we tried but we failed for a while; in hope of blessing we continue ourselves. They should have asked around and also went to the Forensic placement desk to ask if there was a place somewhere in the Netherlands to accommodate this man.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u217	That question was right, because the AMC says in FORZA that the forensic care clinic could not meet the request, because there was a waiting list. But the inspection report says that in FORZA it is denied that the AMC ever notified the man. Now it seems as if we were going to have another clash, namely that parties point to each other. Apparently, there is not enough clarity. That worries me. Does the Secretary of State understand that and how does he see it himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u218	This is gonna be a well-nuke game I'm not behind. I'm not the inspection. The fact is that the AMC insists that they have indeed tried to accommodate this man in forensic care, but that it has not succeeded.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u219	No, no, Mr. Groothuizen, I'd like to give the Secretary of State the opportunity to answer other questions as well. There is also a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u220	But still as a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u221	Well, as a point of order...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u222	It is rather clumsy that we continue to run into institutions that give opposing views in this debate. An inspection report that we do have and an inspection report that we do not have. A minister who says he's doing this...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u223	And what is your point of order?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u224	The point of order is that I find it complicated that you are hindering us in asking questions...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u225	Well, you've had plenty of time to ask questions. Don't blame me. But let me get your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u226	I think Mr Van Nispen is asking a fair question. He noted that there were two other institutions pointing at each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u227	But I haven't limited the number of interruptions so far. Then you shouldn't...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u228	You are right, but you are saying a little bit now that the border has been reached, while it is a point that remains unclear. That's a little clumsy. You are right that this is not because you are not generally generous with interruptions. But at this point, which I think is a very important point...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u229	Well, then you can make your point without involving me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u230	The question is: can then...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u231	Okay, that's obvious to the Secretary of State, I see. Maybe the Secretary of State can respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u232	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Mr Grothuizen says that we did not receive these reports. It has been given to the Chamber, but the Chamber probably expects a huge package. Those are the letters from the IGJ; that's what we call the letter reports. That's the closure of the case. Things have been wiped out in there. But those are the reports. That's all I can give, because I haven't seen the AMC report myself, for example. Then the contents. That's complicated when we look back at organisations contradicting each other. One says nothing's ever been reported and the other says it's been tried to wear the customer somewhere else. I find that very annoying, because I cannot repeat history; it is a given to me. If I look forward, we can see that in the letter the IGJ wrote in July of this year, the IGJ is very content with the AMC's agreements with Arkin about placing people and having contact with forensic care. That's looking to the future. Then providers can never hide behind it again that they don't know where to go, because that's just attached. As far as I am concerned, that should be the culture throughout the ggz. Then we can keep looking back and wonder who is telling the truth, but I do not think that is the best occupational therapy. Unless the Chamber says, "We have to know." I really don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u233	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u234	Mr. Chairman. I'd like to comment on medical confidentiality. Several spokesmen, Mr Groothuizen and Mrs Van Toorenburg, as well as others, have rightly drawn attention to this. Medical professional secrecy in care is of course a great asset and also important for the accessibility of care. I do not think that is at all disputed here either. It is crucial that there is trust between patient and treating physician. I do not want to do anything that will cause people with psychiatric or behavioural problems to avoid care or assistance, with all possible social risks. So we'd like to keep that route to care, please. The discussion on medical professional secrecy must be conducted with care. What are we doing? Firstly, we discuss the extent to which healthcare professionals struggle with medical professional secrecy in the application of forced care. In January, for example, a discussion will take place with GGZ Nederland, as a large branch association, the NVvP, the dome of the psychiatrists, and the KNMG. Secondly, there is a proposal on repair of the Forensic Care Act for consultation. In that law, the inspection JenV's right of inspection in medical records of people receiving forensic care is explicated. That basis helps the inspections to work better together in investigations. I believe that Mr Dekker has already addressed this in detail. Mrs Van Toorenburg explicitly asked why, for example, the information of a round table is not shared. That is precisely what this is about, because the round table was only attended by medical parties and they rely on their medical confidentiality. That is why we are not seeing this report.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u235	That medical confidentiality is important to everyone. Everyone understands why there is and that's important. But the remarkable thing about the inspection report is that you read in several places that the inspection because of medical confidentiality could not look into files and thus could not find out the truth. That makes it difficult for us to see if the lessons that are being drawn are sufficient. That is, of course, the importance. Now the Secretary of State says it will be resolved in the Forensic Care Act for consultation. Is it true that this problem has never been noticed all these years? I believe that the legal basis, which gives the inspection the power to break medical confidentiality, is there in the Police Act and in other laws. By law, therefore, it depends on whether the inspection has the power to infringe medical professional secrecy. It's very complicated, isn't it? How come this problem has never been noticed all these years? Is that really resolved with the forthcoming change of law?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u236	I don't recognize it in the perception that it's never noticed. In my view, it has been seen more often and has been seen as an obstacle, taking into account the importance of medical professional secrecy. We have seen for a long time in the Netherlands that this can be an obstacle in terms of safety in the Netherlands and in terms of good cooperation between chain partners. Then how do you handle that responsibly? I think that is one of the most important points in this debate. Mr Dekker has discussed in detail the way in which we want to ensure better cooperation between inspections in the future, including the extent to which medical records can be accessed. That is something we need to clarify. I can't say exactly how we're gonna fill that out, but it's got our attention and we're gonna get back to that. Mr Dekker has also said a few things about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u237	Were you done with the professional secrecy?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u238	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u239	Mrs. Van Toorenburg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u240	Well, I'm glad the interview report on the metro murder fell off the truck, because I've got it right here. What strikes me is that not only the experts in the ggz were sitting here at the table, but also the probation and the DJI Vught. I read everything and then there are very different things in it than in the inspection report. How does the Secretary of State explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u241	The tricky thing is, the lady has one thing that fell off the truck that I don't have. She surprises me with that question. I really don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u242	I am not robbing the Secretary of State because this report is mentioned in the inspection report. Reference is also made to this. It is then strange that there are people from the Justice Department, who tell a very different story in this than in the inspection report. Meanwhile, we say we learn from it. But more importantly, the Secretary of State says here to arrange later that information from forensic care can be shared with justice. I am concerned that information from the regular ggz can be shared with the justice system. Where's that taken care of?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u243	If I have given the impression that the information of forensic care can be shared with justice, then I have not wanted to say that. I mean the regular ggz.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u244	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u245	I come to the more general point of the waiting lists. Those waiting lists are not only at the regular ggz, but also at the forensic care, because otherwise the AMC would not have told the people not to be able to get rid of them. Unfortunately this is also the case with the regular ggz. However, I think we have to establish that, if it is right, waiting lists in the regular ggz.................................................................................................................................................................................................................. We must be able to assume that if someone is being taken into forensic care and there is no place to live, for example, this is no reason to stop forensic care. That should be the starting point. More generally, I have debated waiting lists in the regular ggz several times, for a large part with other spokesmen. That's got the full attention. A lot of effort is put on that. In January there will be a general discussion about it again. If the Chamber would like to hear more about this now, I would like to share it with all my love, but I assume that we are all on top of it to reduce the waiting lists in all areas of the regular ggz to acceptable proportions. Then specifically about waiting lists in protected housing. Municipalities, who are responsible for this, indicate that there are waiting lists. In the budget that has just been adopted, we have made additional funds available for outpatient ggz, outpatient assistance by municipalities, to people who, for example, have been released from clinics. That amounts to 95 million. I think that is a very important investment. Municipalities thus have means to help out-patients who have a ggz past or who are in some cases still in treatment with the ggz. In addition, I have agreed with the congregations on their hearts, to help with those waiting lists for sheltered housing, that municipalities and I are going to show where those waiting lists are and how we can possibly offer a solution. That path is now underway, and this should lead to greater understanding by 2020. When, Mrs. Kicken asks, but not at the interrupt microphone. I believe that we have agreed with the VNG, or with the centres for protected housing and social care, that we want to have a better view of this by mid-2020, and if that is not the case, the Chamber will hear it. The capacity is of great importance in the regular ggz and especially when it comes to secure beds. Those are the beds in the regular ggz where people are housed who have no criminal record yet but are treated with a very high security risk. With Minister Grapperhaus, I spoke in detail with GGZ Nederland and the health insurance companies. As a result, we have made agreements that ensure that they have to buy an equivalent of 151 secure beds, nationwide. A very crazy number, but this is based on a very careful calculation. That's an equivalent, because it's possible that a bed is folded into a secure bed in a clinic and later becomes a regular ggz bed again. That sounds very technical, but there must be capacity available for 151 beds if demand is to be met. That deal's been made, and we're gonna hold them to it. There are no signs that there are currently too few secure beds. If that's the case, we're having another intrusive conversation, but again, that signal isn't there. I'm closing up. When are people sent on leave from ggz? That is a very careful consideration. It's based on a risk assessment made by the treating psychiatrist. It is often assessed in a multidisciplinary team. That risk assessment is also always refined. The Health and Safety House Rotterdam has developed a new risk assessment tool that can be very carefully pictured when people can or cannot be faced with an acceptable risk. We call on the Rotterdam Health and Safety House to share this instrument with other regions. That's what they're gonna do. We hope that this will reduce the risk of missing important information when sending people on leave. Mr President, I will conclude. I think it is important that the improvement measures that have been taken have been taken seriously by the parties concerned. I would like to emphasise that I appreciate the many professionals in the safety chain who are committed every day to vulnerable fellow human beings, also for the safety of the whole of the Netherlands. But it's still human work. Mrs Kuik said it very nicely: we can never guarantee 100% safety. We shouldn't just rely on laws and protocols, because it's the people who have to do it. Learning from events such as those on the agenda today and working together for a better future can be achieved. I will continue to work for this. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u246	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the government's first term and to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u247	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A very difficult debate, for next of kin, here in the gallery today, who hear politics talking about abstract things on the one hand, how do we deal with things, while at the same time it is about their Joost at the same time. However, I think that we owe it to them to do so, because it is the only way to do them justice. We also have assignments for the cabinet today, because there are things we want to have differently. To that end, I have two motions. The first motion was co-signed by Mr Groothuizen and Mrs Kuik. It reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the supervision of the performance of the public prosecutor's duties is carried out by the judge or attorney-general at the Supreme Court and not by the Justice and Security Inspectorate;]] [[noting that the supervision does not, therefore, affect all the actions of the Public Prosecutor's Office;]] [[Whereas in concrete cases the inspection can look at cooperation in the criminal justice chain;]] [[Whereas, nevertheless, the inspection cannot come up with recommendations on the performance of the public prosecutor's duties;]] [[calls on the Government to consider ways of broadening the supervision of the inspection so that the Public Prosecutor's Office can also be involved in an inspection inquiry,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Toorenburg, Keiken and Grothuizen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25424-495]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u248	Yeah, about the motion. Of course, we also have the beautiful Article 117 of the Constitution, which guarantees the independence of the judiciary. How does this motion relate to that article? We have, of course, been having occasional discussions about the power of direction towards the Public Prosecutor's Office. It should be used with great restraint. This goes much further, because you're putting a ministerial inspection on the D.A.'s office. Doesn't Mrs. Van Toorenburg have the struggle I'm having with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u249	Yeah, but I think things can go together. If a number of partners in the chain have been given a role in an individual, horrible case, then I think that the inspection should really be able to put its teeth in the Public Prosecutor's Office to see exactly what choice has been made. And she can have a judgment on that. This does not mean that the inspection has the power to ensure that the Public Prosecutor's Office will do this differently in all kinds of cases, other than that, is a task of the Minister responsible, who in his own way oversees the Public Prosecutor's Office, and the pg looks at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u250	Finally, Mr Van Wijngaarden.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u251	In that sense, does Mrs Van Toorenburg see no risk of too much influence from the Ministry on the prosecution by having such a ministerial inspection put the teeth in the Public Prosecutor's office?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u252	No, but you read the motion correctly, because it says: investigate how. And that's the opening I see, of course. We need to take a critical look at this. I'm guessing this minister is going to say, "I can't totally see it, do you think it's okay that I'm looking at this and that we're gonna talk about this on Thursday?" If he says that, I would like to discuss with the co-subsidiaries whether that would be a reason for us to hold the motion, but I am concerned that the inspection will finally find something of the action of the Public Prosecutor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u253	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u254	Because let's be honest: that has really been dropped here. The other motion has also been signed by myself and Mrs. Kuik. It reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that information can be exchanged between forensic care and regular ggz institutions in the event of emergencies or serious crimes;]] [[noting that information can be exchanged between the Public Prosecutor's Office and forensic care in the event of emergencies or serious crimes;]] [[Whereas exchange of information between the Public Prosecutor's Office and the regular ggz institutions should also be possible in the event of emergencies or serious crimes, as this may increase security within ggz institutions and in society;]] [[invites the Government, in consultation with the Public Prosecutor's Office and GGZ Nederland, to develop a workable standard, and to inform the House of Representatives about this before the summer recess,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Toorenburg and Mr Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25424-496]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u255	Mr. Chairman. We've been dubbing about this motion. The Secretary of State has said several things about it and he has said that he is in consultation with all kinds of parties, but I really want a clear standard that we as a Chamber can look at.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u256	Obviously. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u257	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the rulers for their answers. I think we have had a worthy debate together. I'll take a look at Joost's family; I hope they felt that way too. But that has not yet been said and we are not finished. I am thinking in particular of the self-learning capacity of organisations, of bodies, which still point a bit at each other and do not automatically tend to work together. The prosecution is very defensive and supervision is also limited. It is therefore quite right that Madeleine van Toorenburg of the CDA, together with us, tabled a motion on this subject. That's gonna be very important. But the same applies, for example, to the problems of medical professional secrecy. No matter how logical, that should never be an obstacle to continuing to protect society in a good way. Two more cases. In the first term, I asked the Minister for Legal Protection very strongly to see how the peer test between psychiatrists and psychologists works, because it is not as self-evident for this branch of sport as it is for hospital care, for example. I think that's extremely important. The Minister has promised to see to that. I would also like to ask him whether he can somehow bring that back in concrete terms. Finally. Can we really only get a look at the rates and waiting lists in forensic care by mid 2020? Personally, I think that takes a long time. I say this in response to the words of the Secretary of State. Wouldn't that be possible at an earlier point, given the urgency? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u258	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. I now give the floor to Mr Van Wijngaarden on behalf of the VVD. You'd better start with those motions right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u259	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Decision on forensic care allows for the sharing of information between ggz and forensic care on 26 June last in order to put safety first;]] [[Whereas, in practice, care professionals fear medical professional secrecy and disciplinary law and may therefore be unnecessarily reluctant to share information;]] [[calls on the Cabinet, on the basis of the new legal opportunities offered, to provide practical assistance to healthcare professionals in order to shape their file formation and data exchange in such a way that it can be legally shared correctly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas victims, survivors and criminal attorneys point out that signals and independent investigations can also benefit the public prosecutors who can improve their own functioning;]] [[Whereas victims and relatives in England can be contacted by an independent victim commissioner (Victims' Commissioner) with independent authority to investigate complaints and propose improvements;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to examine how to strengthen the learning capacity of the Public Prosecutor's Office and to include the English example of a victim commissioner,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that for a reliable risk assessment of a potentially dangerous person complete information on that person is essential and that the Hoekstra Commission in 2015 and the Justice and Security Inspectorate in 2019 have endorsed the importance of data exchange between justice and care institutions;]] [[having noted that the Cabinet has improved the legal basis for data exchange;]] [[Whereas the importance of society to be protected requires that the exchange of information within and between the care and criminal justice chain improves not only in law, but also in practice, and that people in a forensic treatment pathway can be placed smoothly in a clinic appropriate to the risk they pose to themselves and their environment;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to carry out a sampling exercise from 2020 on the extent to which the ambition is achieved in order to improve the exchange of data and the smooth placement of people in a forensic treatment process, and to periodically inform the Chamber thereof until the desired level of ambition has been achieved,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Wijngaarden, Mr Van Nispen, Mr Van Toorenburg, Mr Kuik and Mr Van der Graaf.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25424-497]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Wijngaarden, Mr Van Toorenburg, Mr Van der Graaf and Mr Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25424-498]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Wijngaarden, Grootehuizen, Kiek, Van Toorenburg, Van Nispen, Van den Berge and Van der Graaf.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25424-499]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u260	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thought it was a bit of a sad debate because someone died and obviously mistakes were made. That always makes it complicated to have this kind of debate. I think that one of the final sums of the debate is that the most important issues were in implementation, rather than in regulation. When you look at this area, you see that a lot of organisations play a role and that they all work from their own responsibilities and powers. On the one hand, that is understandable, but on the other hand, it is also difficult, because the people they work with, on the other hand, do not care about those systems, those rules and those organisations, while, if they have a disorder and aggressive behaviour, they pose a very serious threat to our society. I also see that a lot of people have done their very best. This report also shows that people have really been looking for solutions, but it can and should be better in the implementation. The cabinet will therefore have to work. As far as I am concerned, it does not help that I have the impression that balls are always being pushed back and forth when it comes to the question of where exactly the responsibility lies. That doesn't mean this is gonna work out. Mr. Chairman. I have a motion. This concerns the question of whether all relevant information is available to the inspection. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the purpose of inspection investigations is to learn lessons from serious incidents;]] [[noting that the Justice and Security Inspectorate does not have access to any material information;]] [[Whereas this may lead to restrictions in the performance of the inspection tasks;]] [[Calls on the Government to identify ways in which treatment-related information could be carefully shared with the inspection and whether and how that information can be incorporated into the reports;]] [[calls on the Government to submit these options to the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Grotehuizen, Van Wijngaarden, Van Nispen, Van den Berge and Van Toorenburg.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25424-500]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u261	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, even after this debate, I have to say that the criminal justice chain is not working. I don't really see how this is gonna get any better. The criminal justice chain has failed enormously in this case, but is not being addressed. So, in my opinion, the Dutch continue to be at risk. I made four proposals in my first term, measures which the Minister should take immediately. I also asked a question. I didn't get an answer to that. Since the second deadline is too short, I would ask the Minister to reply by letter. Finally, I have another motion for a resolution. I'll read it to you now. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the Philip 0 case there is a direct link between the failure of several bodies and the murder of Philip 0;]] [[calls on the government to dismiss all responsible failing actors in this case,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Markuszower. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25424-501]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u262	Mr. Chairman. This was indeed a sad debate about the failing government. It is a horrible course of events with a fatal outcome, which cannot be reversed. Understandably, this debate was also about rules, about laws and about tightening up and so on. That makes sense, too, but that is also easier than talking about security being human work and ensuring that people have enough colleagues and not being hindered by too much bureaucracy in that professional area to do their job properly. I still think that's a little underexposed. This is a much broader problem in the public sector, but in this area it really leads to risks for security. I really think we should never let go of that theme. I would urge the government simply to do more about it. I can't make a motion on it, but it's an incentive I'm doing and I'm going to keep doing it. I have two motions, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a significant proportion of the forensic care providers, supported by GGZ Nederland, indicate that with the current rates set by the Dutch Healthcare Authority, they cannot provide the right care;]] [[Whereas under-financing of the forensic care sector is a threat to the safety of the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the government to apply adequate tariffs in forensic care, as set out in the driver's letter or letter. forensic care providers of 25 November 2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the incident investigation into the fatal stabbing incident in the Amsterdam metro showed that at several times in this case waiting lists for supervised housing and mediocrity prevented the final offender from arriving at the right place;]] [[considers that it is in the interests of the safety of society if those who need forensic care actually receive care;]] [[calls on the Government to take measures to ensure that those in need of forensic care receive this care at all times and not without a permanent address on the street,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van Nispen, Van Kooten-Arissen and Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25424-502]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Nispen, Mr Van den Berge, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen and Mr Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-25424-503]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u263	Mr President, a sad debate indeed. I actually thought that Mr Van Toorenburg properly summarized the inconvenience that we have probably all felt. For the next of kin, of course, it's just about their lover, who they'll never get back. We are talking here about some abstract, sometimes somewhat theoretical matters. I think that is our role as politicians, and we should do that. But it is the inconvenience that I have certainly felt in this debate, so I would like to echo the opening words of Mr Van Toorenburg. I do not have any motions of my own, because I have already joined with good motions from colleagues. Finally, I would like to say a few things. I think we all agree on one thing today, namely that we need to learn and try to prevent it. Situations such as such a horrible act, the murder of Joost Wolters, we all want to prevent, knowing that absolute security does not exist, but also knowing that great capital mistakes have been made here. A person who needs treatment must not escape treatment. We can't let that happen. I also asked questions about this in the first period. I also see the intention to do something about these two leaders, whom I also thank for their answers. But I still wonder, and I asked that question in the first term: how are we going to do that in practice? In the explanatory memorandum to the Penalty and Protection Act there are beautiful intentions about providing forensic care and working on reintegration and rehabilitation from day one. But how are we going to do that in concrete terms? I would simply like to ask for a commitment from the Minister. Could he give us some more information? As far as the deadline is concerned, I would like to hear from the Minister what is realistic. How are we going to shape the timetable in practice? We all agree that it has to be done, but the question is how and when. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u264	Thank you, Mr. Van den Berge. The Minister and the Secretary of State need a short suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u265	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u266	Mr. Chairman. It was a sad debate, but at the same time a sound and dignified debate. I thank the Chamber for that. I would also like to take advantage of the opportunity to pay my respects to the family and neighbors of Joost Wolters once again. I do that in science no matter how hard this weather is for them. I hope that we can reach a good conclusion to this debate, but that will of course not stop them. Mr. Chairman. After answering a few questions, I shall deal with the motions that have been tabled. Mrs. Kuik asked me when I'd get back to that peer review. Mr Van den Berge actually asked a much wider question when we get an update of the measures contained in it. We have talked about this for a moment and it seems to us sensible to come back to it in the spring. We can only say a few things about this peer review when we have the results of Erasmus University's research into the DJI's treatment dossier. That is what we really need. We will then make one follow-up letter and it will then come your way, so that you can see the coherence and know what steps have been taken in the meantime.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u267	Very briefly!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u268	That seems to me to be a good thing, but I would ask the Minister to include in it how the intentions of the Act of punishment and protection are worked out, for example beginning as early as possible et cetera, et cetera.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u269	Oh, yeah, that's right. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u270	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u271	Then there is Mrs Van Toorenburg's question about conditional TBs. We had a lot of variations and some of them were not feasible, but we wanted to know more about these. We will therefore have further investigation into it. It is expected that this will also reach your Chamber in the first quarter of 2020. So that's in itself positive news. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the motions. The first motion is the motion by Mrs Van Toorenburg on part No. 495 on the supervision of the Public Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u272	Did you have another question, Mr. Markuszower, before we go to the motions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u273	It's like this minister doesn't answer my questions in a structural way, even if I recall him in the second term. And then I was so generous not to want an answer right now and just to ask for a letter. In this respect, I would like to express the commitment that the Minister reflects on those four policy points that he should introduce. In fact, I said that I had a pressing question and I think that 'pringing' is another word for 'emergency'. That pressing question is simply important and I would like to see it answered in writing within a week. How many Philip O's? Does the minister have a visual on him? How many so-called ex-cons are being treated through a civil measure and how many of these crazies are in jail and are being released between now and 2030? I think I'm entitled to that information. The Minister does not have to answer it now, but I would like to see it sent to the Chamber within a week.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u274	That won't be necessary, because I can answer them on the spot. There's only one Philip O. And there's 21,000 people in forensic care every year. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u275	It still requires some research, I think, because I also asked: how many of these potentially dangerous people will be released between now and 2030?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u276	That is an unanswerable question, because we do not know at all how many more are going to flow in.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u277	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u278	The motion in part No. 495. Mrs Van Toorenburg, I'm going to ask you to hold the motion. That doesn't have to be very long, because I think you'll also be talking to Ferd Grapperhaus next week about this point. I understand your point, but I would prefer it if it could also be discussed in width there. At least I'll pass it on so he's prepared.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u279	Mr. Chairman. We talked about it for a while, and we're gonna hold it. Then we can talk about it explicitly next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u280	At the request of Mrs Van Toorenburg, I propose her motion (25424, No. 495). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u281	The motion in part No. 496.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u282	The motions on the documents Nos. 496 and 497 do my colleague. On the motion in part No. 498 on the victim commissioner, I can leave the verdict to the Chamber. Also with the motion in part No. 499 on sample tests, besides the things we're really going to do, I can live. This is an addition. That's why I'm giving that motion judgment Chamber. The motion of Grand Houses c.s. in piece No. 500 calls on the government to identify and report on how this treatment information can be improved. That's what I'm gonna do. This can perhaps be added to the repair law which is currently under consultation and which at least offers some of these possibilities. Then we can go wider and see if that's enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u283	And the verdict is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u284	The motion in part No. 500 I'm judging Room. Sorry, Chairman. The motion in part No. 501, I'm not sure. The motion in part No. 502 is about the rates forensic care. I believe that one of the spokesmen also asked when we would be discussing this. I'm your husband, as far as I'm concerned, I sent you a letter yesterday. I am happy to discuss this with your Chamber in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u285	My comment was also a little addressed to the Secretary of State, because he said he did not see the bottlenecks until mid-January. I would like the honourable members of the government to be able to do so together at an earlier date.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u286	The Secretary of State will come back to that in a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u287	He'll come back to that. I thought it was about the point that Mr Van Nispen raised, and that, of course, is already happening in the very short term. The motion in part No. 502 I advise, but you will understand. With the Van Nispen motion in part No. 503 I can get out of my way. I'll leave that judgment to the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Can I just say a few short sentences at the end? This debate was about things that have not gone well, things that need to be better, but also about measures that have already started to make improvements for the future. I fully agree with everyone who says here, Mr Groothuizen, but also others, that this is not just about a powerful introduction, but also about a powerful implementation. This powerful execution cannot be without the tens of thousands of people in prison, the probation, the Public Prosecutor's Office, in the care, whether it is regular care or forensic, who are dealing every day with the most difficult target group in the Netherlands, but who are doing their utmost to ensure that the Netherlands remains as safe as possible. I know that the conclusions of this report are very hard on them too, and they deserve our support. I would also like to express this support from this chair. We're not going to undo the suffering we've caused. That hurts, but we can show that there's been learning. We owe that to the memory of Joost Wolters.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u288	Thank you. I shall now give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u289	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There are two more motions that I am going to comment on and a few comments. First of all, as far as the debate is concerned, I would like to echo the Minister's words, for the sake of clarity. I've written down two more questions. One by Mr Markuszower on the declaration, because I would come back to that if I wanted to nuance that answer. I totally get his point. He says: culture must be real if crimes are to be reported in the ggz, precisely to filter out dangerous persons and to avoid risks. I totally get that point. I also say in the direction of Mr Markuszower that I believe that criminal offences should always be reported, not only in the ggz, but also outside. Situations are of course not always black and white, so that will also be for the assessment of the professionals if they report it. I do think that should be done if there is reason to do so. I also expect ggz institutions, the employers, to encourage their employees to do so, to ensure that culture is there and that they act in support of it. In addition, hand-outs have been drawn up with the cooperation of the police in order to increase the willingness and clarity of declarations. But can I guarantee that there will always be a report? That is, of course, complicated, because we do not perceive it. But I suppose I have indicated with these words that at least there is sufficient willingness on the part of the cabinet to be clear about how we are in it. Mrs. Kuik asked about the waiting lists for sheltered living. Can't I clarify that a little bit earlier? I said that by mid 2020 we might be able to clarify this. KNMG, commissioned by VWS, has already started doing that research. This was launched in October and will be completed in March 2020. Depending on the results, we will have to talk about it again. But the research itself will therefore be completed in March. I come to the two motions, and first to the motion in part No. 496, by Mrs Van Toorenburg and Mrs Kuik. It invites the government to develop, in consultation with the Office and GGZ Nederland, a workable standard for the provision of information. Those standards on information exchange are already there in themselves, especially for cases of violence in the ggz. It also regulates the exchange of information from the ggz to the prosecution, because that's what you're talking about. More information about this can be found on KNMG's website. May I read the operative part of the motion as follows? The Cabinet knows that these standards are in place. That's what I'm reporting: they're just on KNMG's website. If we consider that this is not enough and that we need to step up the screening of these hand-outs, then I would like to come back to the Chamber. If that is not the case, then I would like to leave it open and say: what is now is sufficient as far as we are concerned. In that light, I would like to leave the ruling on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u290	As a difficult MP, I will never be referred to a website. So I'm gonna ask the Secretary of State to tell the Chamber how that's organized. I am asking this because the Secretary of State is still talking about how we can improve that. He is right to talk about that, and I felt his involvement in that too. So can I take what the Secretary of State says as follows? This is being properly put together for us, so that we can discuss it with our colleagues, and we can come back to it in another AO.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u291	Yeah, that's what we're gonna do. But I do not rule out the fact that, after assessing what lies ahead, we are saying: that is enough. But I'll report that to the Chamber, so there'll be a letter about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u292	Good. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u293	The same applies more or less also to the motion in part No. 497 by Mr Van Wijngaarden and others This is also in line with the point he made in his first term. He says in his motion: there must be a hand-out for care professionals to shape their care records and data exchange in such a way that they can be legally shared correctly. In my first term, I tried to indicate that there are hand-outs. These are prepared by GGZ Nederland, by the NVvP, the dome of psychiatrists, and also by the KNMG. They have handouts. So they exist. The operative part now states that the cabinet must draw up it. I don't think that's super pure. I'd like it better if the professionals did that themselves. May I read this motion as follows? It's said: check those hand-outs and see if you think they're adequate. If I may read the motion in this way, I would like to make the same judgment on this motion as on the previous one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u294	I think this is a justified remark from the Secretary of State, so: sure. I would like to add that Mrs Van der Graaf would also like to endorse this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u295	Okay, then her signature will be added.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u296	And then it's all up to the Chamber, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u297	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-12-tweedekamer-15.u298	We will vote on the motions tabled next week. I thank all those present, but especially the parents of Joost Wolters and his girlfriend, I understand her sisters, and family members, who are here in the room. It is not easy to experience this debate at close range. I wish you all the best.
