ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-5.u1	Now let's go to the last question. It is from Mr Sjoerdsma on behalf of D66 to the Minister of Foreign Affairs and deals with the extradition of an important MH17 suspect to Russia by Ukraine. I would like to welcome the Foreign Minister. Mr. Sjoerdsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last Saturday, Ukraine exchanged a potentially important MH17 suspect with Russia. That was a slap in the face for anyone who wants the truth about the disaster with the MH17 on the table, for anyone who wants the defendant in court. Above all, it was a painful day for all the next of kin to see this. Mr. Chairman. This suspect, Mr Tsemach, would have been at the location of the launch of the Buk rocket and would possibly have played a role in transporting this Buk rocket. Having this suspect available for questioning, for any testimony, is incredibly important for the truth finding. Therefore, because of this prisoner exchange, we have lost a suspect to a country that is unlikely to cooperate in any way in the truth finding around MH17: Russia. Mr. Chairman. I find it disappointing that Ukraine has extradited this man, this potential suspect, to the country, Russia, which we have made state responsible for bringing down MH17. So I only have two questions. 1. Why did Ukraine trade this man out after working so well with the Netherlands for years? 2. What did the Cabinet do to prevent this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-5.u3	I call the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-5.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is certainly an ice cold shower for the Netherlands that Mr Tsemach is part of the prisoner exchange. I can also lively imagine the feelings that this brings to the next of kin. Therefore, Mr Sjoerdsma's question has been in contact with the Ukrainian authorities several times and to the highest level in recent weeks in order to avoid Mr Tsemach's exchange, because indeed Mr Tsemach is considered by the Public Prosecutor to be of the utmost importance for the criminal investigation. Unfortunately, our efforts have not been able to prevent this exchange. Fortunately, it has led to the exchange being postponed by one week, which has enabled the Public Prosecutor to hear Mr Tsemach. But it is still very difficult to say that Mr Tsemach has become part of this exchange under heavy Russian pressure. That is also the answer to Mr Sjoerdsma's second question, namely how Ukraine could have done this. Undoubtedly, Mr Sjoerdsma also saw that President Zelenski, in his explanatory statement on the prisoner exchange, indicated the importance of that exchange for Ukraine. These included the 24 seamen held by the Russian Federation in violation of international law. It was also an important Ukrainian filmmaker who had been held captive by Russia under bad conditions for years. So this was of great importance to the Ukrainian authorities. They were put under very pressure in the form of "if Tsemach is not part of the exchange, then there will be no exchange." Nevertheless, the Netherlands deeply regrets that Mr Tsemach was part of the exchange. This now means that the Public Prosecutor has asked Russia to arrest Mr Tsemach for the purpose of extradition. We will provide all diplomatic support in this regard. Cooperation in ensuring that suspects and witnesses, or anyone deemed necessary by the Public Prosecutor's Office and JIT, cooperate, follows from UN Security Council Resolution 2166.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-5.u5	It is, of course, extremely bitter that this exchange had to take place at all, because those who had to ask for and get back Ukraine, namely the 24 sailors that the Minister mentioned, should never have been held hostage. They should have been given back to Ukraine without any condition at all. So yes, to see that they are eventually exchanged for a suspect of such great importance to us, that hurts. I told you before, that's a slap in the face. Because apart from the treaty that the Netherlands, of course, has with Ukraine, which states that we can hear suspects from a distance and allow testimonies and that Ukraine has also declared itself willing to take over any criminal sanctions, countries are also obliged to participate in UN Resolution 2166. Transferring a suspect from one country to another is not appropriate. And the transfer of that suspect to the country that has so much fog and has torpedoed a UN tribunal in the area of MH17 in the UN Security Council certainly does not fit in with that. What I like is that the State has now also asked Russia to transfer this man to the Netherlands, so that he can come here. I have little hope of that happening. The only thing I can hope for is the fact that the Russian constitution does not prohibit the extradition of Ukrainian people. I hope, therefore, that if the public prosecutor's request does not lead to sufficient consequences for Russia, it will not remain with the Public Prosecutor's Office, but that the Netherlands, together with all the allies who have always supported us, will try to achieve this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-5.u6	Mr Sjoerdsma quite rightly points out that Mr Tsemach has Ukrainian nationality and that the Russian constitution prohibits the extradition of own nationals, but not the extradition of people of another nationality. In line with UN Security Council Resolution 2166, the Public Prosecutor's Office, as well as the Dutch Government, also appeals to the Russian Federation to participate in the trial of the culprits of the shooting of MH17 under this resolution. We will continue to focus on this with full energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-5.u7	That full energy will be needed to restore confidence and the hope that the truth will come out and the defendant will actually go to court. I also hope that we will immediately make that sound at the forthcoming United Nations General Assembly, so that Russia knows what we expect of them, namely full cooperation in Resolution 2166.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-5.u8	Thank you. Then I will go to Mr Van Dam on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-5.u9	I have repeatedly expressed my appreciation, also in the direction of this Minister for Foreign Affairs, for the action of the Dutch Cabinet on MH17. I read in the letter sent on Saturday that there has been contact with Ukraine at the highest level in recent weeks. The Minister repeats that here too. But on 20 May, this president was installed, and we know, from his election campaign alone, that he was perhaps something different in the race than his predecessor. Then may I ask what happened right after May 20th? Have you travelled to Ukraine to invest in that very important relationship with that country on the file MH17? What has happened in recent months to avert this danger?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-5.u10	There has been regular contact with Ukraine at the various levels, at that of the Public Prosecutor's Office, at that of the JIT and at the official and ministerial level last year. There is only recently a new Ukrainian Foreign Minister. Mr Prystaiko has even just been appointed on this final stage. At the beginning of the period, therefore, contacts were still ongoing with the outgoing minister Klimkin. Only my very last phone call could take place with the newest minister. Prime Minister Rutte has also been in contact with President Zelenski, always with the same message, but unfortunately with the outcome we did not want.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-5.u11	Mr Van Wijngaarden on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-5.u12	It is indeed a huge damper for everyone, the next of kin first. But if this process teaches us one thing, then it is that we must continue and not give up. On this point, I have a question, namely: is this Minister prepared, by means of UN Resolution 2166, to seek the support of the international allies, his colleagues abroad, to put maximum pressure on Russia to cooperate which is now necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-5.u13	Mr Van Wijngaarden is absolutely right that we always need the support of other countries and international organisations. Mr Van Wijngaarden has undoubtedly seen that a number of countries and international organisations have also responded to this exchange and have indicated that, like the Netherlands, they believe that the prosecution should now proceed. We therefore continue to make every effort to keep that circle of countries and organisations involved in the prosecution. That is what we will do, as Mr Sjoerdsma said earlier, at the United Nations General Assembly, but also at any other time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-5.u14	My question to the Minister is actually a little bit more about Russia's role in this prisoner exchange. With the demand that Mr Tsemach, a Ukrainian for all intents and purposes, should be part of this prisoner exchange, Russia has, in my opinion, shown very clearly to the international community that it wants to cover up the true story of taking down MH17 and does not want to implement the resolution which the Minister has already mentioned. I was wondering whether, in the run-up to that exchange of prisoners, there has been contact with Russia, and perhaps pressure has been exerted on Russia to denounce Russia's role in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-5.u15	There has also been regular contact with Russia in recent times. You also know, of course, that I meet my Russian colleague regularly and that, unfortunately, MH17 should always be at the top of the agenda. Now that the exchange has taken place, these contacts are again taking place intensively. We have discussed the following issue with the Russian defendant today, namely the public prosecutor's request for arrest and extradition. Where the contacts with Russia were therefore already very important in the preliminary phase, they are now even more important if possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-5.u16	Following up on this. The Minister will travel to New York in a few weeks, to the United Nations General Assembly. Is he prepared to say that he will make contact there with his colleague, his Russian counterpart, in order to convey the message that has now been sent to the defendant, also to the Russian Foreign Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-5.u17	Those messages are being transferred. It's always exciting if another minister always chooses a different course or chooses the same course, but I'll look up that corridor, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-5.u18	It has been about Ukraine's disappointing role. We know what Russia's position is. The Minister has promised that he will work with other JIT countries, most likely at the General Assembly later, but is he also willing to involve the Americans? Because if there's a country affecting the Russians, it's the Americans. We know that the track record of the involvement of the Americans in this dossier is not very big, but it might give the AVN an opportunity to involve the Americans and try to at least hear this Tsemach from Russia.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-5.u19	In my discussions with the American colleague, MH17 and the support we need from the US are always on the agenda. The image of Mr. Sjoerdsma that... Sorry, I don't recognize the image of Mr Voordewind that we wouldn't get it. There have been several clear statements from the American authorities that they support the Netherlands in achieving what we all want, bringing the perpetrators behind the attack on MH17 to justice. We will continue to ask the United States for this very important support.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-10-tweedekamer-5.u20	Thank you. That brings us to the end of this Question Time. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments and vote in a few minutes.
