ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-6.u1	The next item is the election of the first and second Vice-President of the Chamber. Let's start with the election of the first Vice-President. As a candidate for this position, the following members have applied. I'll list them in alphabetical order. It is Mr Joop Atsma, Mrs Jopie Nooren and Mrs Dorien Rookmaker. As decided on 2 July, candidates will be given the floor in alphabetical order to give a brief explanation of their candidacy. I would ask them, as an indication of their speaking time, to stay within a maximum of five minutes. I shall be the first to give the floor to Mr Atsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-6.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I have written that it is an honour and at the same time a challenge to be able to stand before the Vice-President of this Chamber. I have indicated that I would like to be eligible for both the first and the second Vice-Presidentship. Why did I write that? I did this because, of course, I didn't know at the time of writing or could know whether or not candidates would apply for one job or another. I've indicated it's an honor, because you know that if you're going for such a position, you should have broad support in this Chamber anyway. It is also a challenge because there are a lot of things in the role that also affect this Chamber, apart from the political one. I have indicated that I think I am eligible for this, looking at what I have done in the past and what I am doing at the moment. I started my political career as a state member in the province of Fryslân. I've done that for eight years. I think it might be relevant for the functioning here that you also have experience as a State Member. In addition, I became a Member of Parliament in 1998. I've been a Member of Parliament for 12 years. In addition, as a Member of Parliament, I have been able for many years to act as independent chairman of several standing committees, ranging from government expenditure to LNV and Transport and Water State. After that period, I was allowed to be Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Environment for a few years. Then I joined this Chamber. In any case, all this gives me the conviction that, especially for the position I have applied for, I have a plus when it comes to knowing the state and administrative relations, including the various legislative paths that you are facing, particularly in this Chamber. I said it's a challenge. It is also a challenge for me in other ways. Some of you know I have a visual impairment. I can see, but I can't see. The detail has largely disappeared in my eyesight, because twenty years ago I had problems with macular degeneration. That's a tricky thing. It has prevented my functioning as a Member of Parliament and as a Secretary of State, fortunately, I say. It does mean that I am less able to read and especially less able to perceive details. But since I myself have experienced that you should not avoid challenges, I said yes in full when I was asked to respond to the Vice-Presidentship of this Chamber. Mr. Chairman. I have already indicated that I have applied for both the first and the second Vice-Presidentship. I didn't know who else would come forward for that. I am glad that several candidates have applied for both positions. I do not think it is a problem to put myself up for the second Vice-President only, even looking at the male-female relationship in this Chamber. Mr. Chairman. I have said what I would like to say at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-6.u3	Stand still if you'd like, Mr. Atsma. So, if I understand correctly, are you going to withdraw as a candidate for the first Vice-President and are you only going to be a candidate for the second Vice-President?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-6.u4	Yes. If I had to formally withdraw as a candidate for the first Vice-President to be a candidate for the second Vice-President, I would do so. If it does not have to be formal, I think I have made it sufficiently clear that I am particularly aspiring to the second Vice-President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-6.u5	So we will not put you to the vote as a candidate for the first Vice-Presidentship. Is that okay with you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-6.u6	As far as I'm concerned, that's an agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-6.u7	That's what you're trying to do?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-6.u8	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-6.u9	Then that's how we're gonna do it. Thank you, Mr. Atsma. Mrs Nooren has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-6.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to colleagues for the opportunity to explain my candidacy. You were able to read my application. I would, of course, be happy to answer your questions. A little more than half of you don't know me or hardly know me and wonders, "Who the hell is Jopie Noorden?" That's why I'll tell you a little bit more about myself. If there is time left in those five minutes, I am going to use it to explain some aspects of the work of the Vice-President and my views on it. I was born and raised in Breda. Some of you live there or in Prinsenbeek, which also belongs to Breda. My father wasn't allowed to study after the war. He was a farmer against will and thanks. He compensated for this by many administrative activities, such as the church administration, the farmers' union, the waterboard, the KVP and later the CDA. That gave us nice but often also spicy conversations at the kitchen table, and with me an interest in politics. I've been told from home that you have to make something of your own life and that you have to take advantage of your talents. If you choose something, you go for it one hundred percent. And if you can help others, you will. I am blessed with a positive view of life, good health and a lot of energy. In my work in health care, in my own family and also at this point in time, I have found that this is not self-evident for everyone. Also, with optimism, humour and the right support, it is quite possible to make something beautiful of your life. I take pleasure in being ready for others and I think it is important that everyone counts and can participate. Ladies and gentlemen, should I become your Vice-President, I will have an eye for the wishes and proposals of all the Members and the political groups. We've just seen how complicated such a process can be. For me, it doesn't matter whether a group is large or small, or someone who has just entered the Chamber with an idea or a sitting MP; suggestions for improvement are always welcome. I find it a challenge to fold things so that everyone feels familiar. I am convinced that the experience I have gained over the last 20 years in managing organisations is valuable for this. I'm talking about running some smaller organizations with 50 people and larger organisations with several thousands of employees and volunteers for over ten years. Then I come to the core of our work in this Chamber, which is to assess the quality of legislation. Each one does so from its own ideology and political color. My experience is that laws come along that question the added value, quality or completeness, just as they just did. It's only then that this Chamber can show its strength. As a member of the Housely Commission, I will ensure that there is sufficient room for discussion of the law and for a debate with the Minister, with initiators of an initiative law, but also with each other. As far as I am concerned, such a debate can be conducted sharply, without personal insults or any other way of blackmailing each other. I say this just to get ahead of a question from Mr Schalk. It is inevitable that housing will often be on the agenda of the Housely Commission in the near future. As a director in care and education, I have a lot of experience with major construction and renovation projects. There is always tension between what the customer wants, the money, the time and the requirements of the laws and regulations. I expect to benefit greatly from my knowledge and experience in the renovation of this house, but also in the realization of temporary housing. Fortunately, we can build on the excellent work of the previous Household Commission. I am proud that, as a temporary committee, we have managed to establish code of conduct integrity in the previous period, a code of conduct with which the entire First Chamber has agreed. Now it is important to get to work in practice. My experience so far is that this will not be a simple matter. Most of us also have other roles and functions. That social knowledge and experience are very relevant to the work in this Upper House. We will have to talk to each other in order to have a shared view of what can or cannot be done and what should be done about spokespersonships in order to achieve this, but also how we can guarantee the independence of the Chambers within and outside this Chamber. As Vice-President, I am fully committed to this. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very grateful to you and to the President-in-Office. If you will allow me, I would like to use my knowledge and experience inside and outside this house for the Vice-Presidentship. I look forward to that role in working with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-6.u11	Thank you, Mrs Nooren. I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Rookmaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-6.u12	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you, fellow Members of the Chamber. In addition to my letter and brief resume I would like to tell you a little bit more about who I am and why I think I can be a good addition to the board of your Chamber. I was born almost 55 years ago in the head of North Holland, in Petten, as the third daughter of a total of four daughters of a pharmacy doctor. I finished high school in Groningen. Unfortunately, my father died when I was 16. As a result, I left the parental home early, and I had two children. Yet in a difficult period I obtained my vwo-diploma and I studied when my two children were small. From the birth of the youngest I was alone in the task of breadwinner and educator, until I met my current husband in 2003, with whom I have been happily married for fifteen years now. I like art, music in particular, reading and nature, also the infinitely complex human nature. People who know me well describe me as brave, original and trustworthy. I always find it a little difficult to say something about yourself; so I let others do that. Since high school first grade, I've been interested in politics. I have never actively interfered, apart from a short stay in the city council of Groningen for D66. I simply didn't have time for that. However, I have always followed politics, sometimes with wonder, often with increasing amazement and even with bewilderment, but always with interest. How can we so easily give up our hard-won democratic rule of law of the Netherlands and our autonomy to a democratically less developed institution than the EU? Where does the belief come from that many important issues can only be tackled at EU level? In business, in which I worked for many years mainly in management positions, there is an exact opposite view: the smaller a project, the better its control. Anyway, why do I now consider myself the first Vice-President of the Senate in politics? On the basis of my education, training, work and life experience, I consider myself very capable of carrying out representative tasks, leading both your meetings and the organization, and of properly accompanying the renovation and relocation of the First Chamber. But I also bring extra business with me. The amazement that I will undoubtedly experience as a newcomer I know myself and I know myself leads to a free one, and that must appeal to Dutch people, inside-out look. I have used myself to capture that wonder when I come into a new working environment. Moreover, as a newcomer, I am certainly open to improvement initiatives, including yours. I am not yet attached to the current way of working. My second additional contribution is to ensure integrity and implement the code of conduct. Research has shown that organisations in which working relationships develop over the years are also vulnerable to the Eerste Kamer. It turns out it's hard to talk to each other about behavior in practice. A code of conduct, certainly the code of conduct we have, is good. That's one thing. But the crux is: act on it. In one of my jobs, I myself was a whistleblower in a solid fraud file. That was very hard, but I survived. It took about a year and a half. It has taught me, among other things, to consider every step very carefully, that courage and perseverance are indispensable and, equally, that research questions are very simple to manipulate, in such a way that the real culprits remain out of hand. On the positive side, it taught me that a very solid example is being followed and a code of conduct can become a living document. I got my reward afterwards. I've seen my colleagues get braver. Finally, and that is perhaps the most important thing, my accession to the Board of the First Chamber will do justice to the election results. Many voters gave a clear signal in March, a signal that illustrates distrust. The President of the First Chamber, however much he or she strives for impartiality, is also a human being and therefore, like everyone else, in charge of assumptions, preferences, antipathies and so on, so am I in the first place. That's why built-in checks-and-balances are so important. We need to work together. We will do the same, with respect for everyone's views and views. I hope you will support my candidacy and await your questions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-6.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Rookmaker. Would one of the other Members like to ask one or more candidates questions? That's the case. I will give the floor to Members in the order previously agreed from large to small groups. Please state clearly who your question is addressed to. Would you like to try to limit yourself to one questioner per group, if possible? After all the questions have been asked, candidates will be given the opportunity to deal with the questions addressed to them in their entirety. That goes by candidate. Let me see if there is anyone from the Forum for Democracy who would like to ask a question to one or more candidates. Yes, Mr Van Pareren. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-6.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to put a question to Mrs Nooren. I am impressed by your great record and your great commitment in many areas. I have only one question to ask: how much experience do you have with large construction projects? That is the question of the Forum for Democracy, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-6.u15	Thank you, Mr. Van Pareren. I'm going to the fraction of the VVD. Is there anyone there who wants to ask a question? Mr. Wever.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-6.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a question for Mrs Rookmaker of the Forum for Democracy. It is good that you talk in your explanatory statement about a code of conduct and integrity and about respect. As a VVD, we attach great importance to these standards and values and to the way in which we interact here. Now, after the election of the President last week, we are faced with some tweets from your group, comparing a choice between GroenLinks and the VVD with a choice between hunger and plague. Are these the standards and behavioral components you advocate? Perhaps you'd like to distance yourself from this? That's our question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-6.u17	Thank you, Mr. Wever. Then I'll go to the CDA group. Is there anyone there who wants to ask a question? No. Then I'm going to the GroenLinks group. Is there anyone from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance who would like to ask a question? Didn't D66 either? Party of Labour? Mrs. Fox, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-6.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a question for Mrs. Rookmaker. There's Mrs. Rookmaker. You say in your motivation that you want to perform a new sound in The Hague and that a million voters have also said so. Now there was no election programme for the Provincial States of the Forum for Democracy. I would like to know what the content of that new sound was, but also how it relates to the independence that an Vice-President should also exercise. I'd like an answer to those questions. Your colleague had a good question: what is your experience with construction projects?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-6.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Fox. Then I'll go to the PVV group. No questions from the PVV. The SP, Mr. Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-6.u20	Mr. Chairman. Following the decision of the previous Chamber, the tasks of the House of Commons were extended, in particular to monitor compliance with the new code of conduct we have agreed on, with, if necessary, the making of judgments and the making of those judgments public. There is no ranking between the President, the first Vice-President and the second Vice-President. I ask both candidates how they see themselves in that function of judging colleagues if necessary, expressing an opinion and making that public. Linked to this: do both candidate Vice-Presidents have sufficient time to properly fulfil this more extensive task? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-6.u21	Thank you, Mr. Kox. Then we go to the group of the Christian Union; there are no questions. The Party for Animals has no questions. 50PLUS has no questions. The SGP has no questions. The Independent Senate Group, Mr Gerbrandy, has no questions either. The candidates will now be given the opportunity, in alphabetical order, to answer the questions addressed to them. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Nooren in the first instance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-6.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The first question was about large construction projects. I've been building and renovating since I was an ergotherapist. I've been in charge of health care institutions for over ten years. Last year we renovated 200 people who are blind or visually impaired, have intellectual disabilities and/or autism. This is not only difficult in substance, but these people are also literally and figuratively losing their way. Some of you have noticed on June 11 a little bit how difficult it is if you can't find your way into the building. That's even more difficult when you're blind or visually impaired. In addition, we have several schools. So I also have experience with public-private partnerships in housing. In between I have also been a member of the college building care institutions. So I have extensive experience with complex building processes and complex logistics processes in them. The SP's question was about the Temporary Committee developing code of conduct integrity. I was allowed to be part of the temporary committee. We have done quite a bit of deepening what is meant by the code of conduct. My proposal would be to discuss this in the House's Committee in consultation and in familiarity. What exactly should these roles be like, we have yet to look at them. In my current work as chairman of the board of directors, I have to deal with a dozen confidential persons and a large number of complaints officers. I regularly encounter integrity issues in my own work on matters that play. So also in my experience at Bartiméus, or before that with Lunet care, or before that as director of an industry organisation, integrity questions are always issues that come up. I also believe that it should not be just a matter for the House's Committee. We have agreed to proceed at least with the College of Seniors and also with the entire Chamber. The purpose of the temporary committee is to discuss the matter with each other in committee. So I see the role of the household committee not only as a judgmental role, but it is much more in organising that the conversation will be well conducted. The other question that was asked was about time and priority. The advantage of being chairman of a board of directors is that you decide your own agenda. So I have room to slide into my agenda. Besides, I'm gonna have a colleague soon. I've been running the organization for five years, but I'm getting a colleague. This will create more space in my agenda. In addition to this parliamentary membership, I have only one side function. If I get into trouble with this in relation to parliamentary membership in a role within the Housely Commission, then I will stop doing so side-by-side.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-6.u23	Thank you, Mrs Nooren. I call Mrs Rookmaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-6.u24	Twitter and social media continue to occupy us. I'm not one of them myself; I'm not on Twitter. Do I distance myself from statements in which people are offended? Yes, I do. I believe that this was a cheerful tweet, in which parties were mentioned and not so many people, or not even parties. It's not my style, but I'd like to leave it at that. Mrs. Vos spoke of independence. What about my independence? I know that you must be independent as Vice-President and also as President, and I will always do so and I will always do so. But whatever I meant during my pitch was, no matter how much you try, you always take yourself with you. That's why it's so important that you take different viewpoints into such a chamber board. Then you build in checks-and-balances in the organization. So independence, yes. Every President, every Vice-President will try very hard to do that, but it is important to incorporate different points of view into the organisation. The election program can be found on the FvD site. We're very transparent about that. There are all our points of view. From these points of view, we have entered into all the negotiations, so I did not want to waste too much of that. What experience do I have with construction projects? I worked for a long time at ProRail, on construction projects such as the station in Rotterdam, the very difficult construction project of the station in Delft and the Hanselijn. Those are all construction projects that I'm involved in. I have a lot of knowledge about procurement law in particular, but also controlling or risk management of large construction projects was part of my job and was my responsibility. Mr. Kox on the House Committee. How do you handle reports? That's important. I would like to briefly tell a little story about a rabbi who came to live in a village. There was someone who heard something about that rabbi and was gonna spread it all. That was a gossip, so to speak. At one point the rabbi came into office and he did his job and over time the gentleman who did it got remorseful and went to that rabbi and said, "Rabbi, I did something terrible, I blackmailed someone; I see that you are a good man, I should never have done it, I apologize for that." The rabbi said, "It's all right, you only have to do one thing to make it right; go home, grab a down pillow, open it and shake all the down feathers in the air." "Is that all?', Asked the man. He went back home and thought he'd get off easy. He opened the down pillow and threw all the down feathers in the air and he thought: "I'm going to report it back to the rabbi and say that I've done my job and then my street is clean again." So then he came to the rabbi and said, "I did it, what now?" "Now you have to look up all the feathers and put them back in the pillow," said the rabbi. And then the guy said, "Yes, but it can't be done at all." "Exactly," said the rabbi. What I'm trying to say is that you have to be very careful with suspicions. You need to know what you're getting yourself into. You have to weigh things very carefully. You also have to be very careful not to make the committee with which you discuss it all too big, because the reputation is your most precious property and so you have to deal with it very carefully. Do I have enough time? Yeah, 'cause I'm not doing anything wrong. On my résumé, it says I'm director-grand shareholder of a company. I am, but I'm redoing it to my associate. So I don't have any more meddling in that now. That is an administrative matter. I really have plenty of time to get into this. I think that's necessary, too. If it's gonna be me, of course, I'm gonna have to work really hard. I think that's how I answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-6.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Rookmaker. We shall now proceed to the election of the first Vice-President. I'll briefly explain the rules. In accordance with Rule 113 of the Rules of Procedure, the election shall take place in writing by secret ballot. In order to be elected first Vice-President, the candidate shall require an absolute majority of the votes validly cast. I would point out that not duly or insufficiently filled ballot papers pursuant to Rule 114 of the Rules of Procedure are invalid. This includes blank votes. A valid vote is a ballot note which clearly states no more and no less than the name of a member. My proposal is to limit us to the last name, so that there can be no contamination. Invalid votes affect the absolute majority necessary to achieve the choice made by the Chamber. I'm gonna take a look around and make sure that's clear to everyone. That's the case. If none of the candidates achieves an absolute majority in the first round, a second, also completely free round of voting will take place. This means that you can vote on the same candidates as in the first ballot. If, once again, no one has obtained the absolute majority, a third vote shall be taken on the two persons who, in the second vote, have united the majority of the votes in themselves. I shall appoint Members to vote: Mrs Klip-Martin, who will announce the result of the vote; Ms Bredenoord; Ms Baay-Timmerman; Mr Ton van Kesteren. I ask the guardian of the Chamber to distribute the ballot papers and the members to fill in the ballot paper and fold twice. So you can write the name Nooren or the name Rookmaker, both with two o's. The last name will do. You can, of course, also vote blankly. For the sake of clarity, I say that it is forbidden for anyone to photograph or film during the votes. This applies to everyone in the room and in the public gallery. We are now waiting for the members to fill out the note.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-6.u26	I ask the guardian of the Chamber to collect the ballot papers and deposit them with the ballot board. I would ask the voters to take their seats at the table in the middle of the room and begin their work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-6.u27	A total of 74 votes were cast, of which 17 were cast against Mrs Rookmaker and 57 were cast against Mrs Nooren.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-6.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Klip. On the basis of the result of this vote, I note that, in accordance with Rule 115 of the Rules of Procedure, Jopie Noorden has obtained an absolute majority and has thus been elected first Vice-President of the First Chamber of the States General.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-6.u29	I thank the candidate who has lost weight, Mrs Rookmaker, for her commitment. I would like to thank the members of the electoral committee very warmly for their work. After the election of the second Vice-President, you can congratulate both Vice-Presidents and I will be happy to do so myself. We shall now proceed to the election of the second Vice-President. The next item is the election of the second Vice-President of the Chamber. As a candidate for this post, the following members have applied in alphabetical order: Mr Joop Atsma, Mrs Arda Gerkens and Mr Jeroen de Vries. Mrs Jopie Nooren has lost weight because she has now been elected first Vice-President. There are therefore three candidates for the second Vice-President: Mr Atsma, Mrs Gerkens and Mr De Vries. As decided on 2 July, candidates will be given the floor in alphabetical order to give a brief explanation of their candidacy, unless they do not do so because they have already explained the candidacy for first Vice-President. The opportunity is now for Mr Atsma to speak, unless he decides not to do so. I understand he doesn't want to do that. Thank you, Mr. Atsma. I call Mrs Gerkens. Go ahead, Mrs. Gerkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-6.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have been a member of the Lower House for eight years, and I have been a member of the Upper House for six years now. I can bring the experience I have gained in both areas as Vice-President of the House. I'd be happy to. In the years I have been active in smaller groups and in large groups. I've also seen the difference between them, and how hard you sometimes have to fight as a small fraction to get your spot literally, and almost figuratively. I would also like, if I were to take my place in the House's Committee, to ensure that all the groups are properly represented, because that is what we really need, I think. We're all the Senate here. We are all responsible here for parliamentary democracy. We all have to make sure that this legislative process takes place properly. This is not only sometimes difficult for smaller groups, but it also has to do with the very large group of newcomers we have here. They're really looking for their place here. With my experience as a teacher, but also as a supervisor, I like to mentor people. I would also like to update everyone who is new as soon as possible with all the knowledge available so that they can participate fully in the debate so that we can all ensure that we have a good parliamentary democracy. This support and guidance will be taken into account in this role in the House's Committee. Mr. Chairman. As far as integrity is concerned, the SP has, of course, been a huge trigger in that discussion. We believe that integrity is above all else. We must also ensure that it remains good, because that is important for the standing of the Chamber. It's also a living document. The code of conduct that we now have should not be a code of conduct that lies in the drawer and does not come out until there is a problem. We all have to keep talking about how we see it. Sometimes that's difficult, because many of us have side functions. This is our main function, but many of us have side functions. We need to keep talking about when that's gonna sand and what to do about it. I'm sure I'll talk to people about that, too. We need to keep each other on that. Mr. Chairman. If you think that these three points are important and if you think that someone in the House's Committee should take place as Vice-President in order to stay on top of them, then I would ask you to make your choice for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-6.u31	Thank you, Mrs Gerkens. I call Mr Jeroen de Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-6.u32	Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, you are faced with the third candidate of the Forum for Democracy who is applying for a position as President or Vice-President of this Chamber. I can assure you this is not because of an urgent need for job hunting. It is a signal that the Forum for Democracy as a new party is able to present new people who want and can work for the implementation of a social role. I'd like to start with a brief personal introduction. On 9 February 1971 I was born in Groningen (city) after my parents, my mother's pregnant wife, moved there from Leiden, in connection with my father's PhD research to be started at the University of Groningen. In 1974 he obtained his PhD in Microbiology, on the dissertation "Formation and cell wall regeneration of protoplasts from Schizophyllum commune." His father, my grandfather, Master W.A.D. From 1938 to 1956, de Vries was a member of the board of directors of the Amsterdam Trade Association in the Netherlands-Indies, and then at the head office in Amsterdam until his retirement in 1975. My other grandfather, Reverend Dr Egbert Emmen, obtained his PhD at the University of Groningen in 1935 as a doctor in theology on the dissertation "The Christology of Calvin." After being a minister to a number of reformed congregations, last in Haarlem, he was appointed Secretary-General of the General Synod of the Dutch Reformed Church in 1946. He was sent abroad many times and was the founder of the Conference of European Churches. At his emeritate in 1967 it was the first time that a cardinal was present in the synod. I share this with you because I am named after both grandfathers and they have taught me the values and standards I always hold to. I think it is an honor and a duty to have mentioned them here today. In 1975 our family moved to America, where my father further specialized in DNA research at the University of Washington in Seattle. In two and a half years, my sister and I turned into little American people. It's been molding years for us. We were integrated into a culture of big is better, self-evident patriotism and a society in which one dared dream about unlimited opportunities and entrepreneurship. It was an environment in which Starbucks and Microsoft were founded. As a little boy, I went through the 1976 presidential election, which was won by Jimmy Carter. We watched debates between Carter and Ford on television. In retrospect, I think that in those days my interest in politics and campaigning was aroused. After returning to the Netherlands I completed primary and secondary school and a study in Groningen, after which I moved to Amsterdam at the age of 25. Unlike my father and grandfather, I didn't get a doctorate there. However, I did specialize in the field of real estate and project development. In spring 2015, I met Thierry Baudet, Henk Otten and Rob Rooken at Hotel De L'Europe. They had a think tank session there. Their enthusiasm and their critical sound appealed to me greatly and before I knew it, we organised our first major meeting on 1 June 2015 to commemorate the 2005 referendum on the European Constitution. After this, the weekly meetings were held in the FvD cellar. The campaign for the referendum on the Association Treaty with Ukraine started and the think tank was also converted into a political party by the end of 2016. Now, more than four years later, I am part of a twelve-member group in the First Chamber. I am proud of the result achieved. Now I am running for the second Vice-President of this Chamber. I am well aware that for such a function flexibility, commitment, enthusiasm and expertise are of the utmost importance, but above all also the ability and ability to stand above parties in the interests of the Chamber. I have the time and experience and I have the necessary perseverance, especially when it comes to our temporary housing and the forthcoming renovation of the Binnenhof. It is a complex process that I have already met in the Lower House. In the coming years, I will be happy to work in this area, in support of the President and the first Vice-President, but above all at the service of this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-6.u33	Thank you, Mr De Vries. Would one of the other Members like to ask one or more candidates questions? That's the case. Would you please state clearly who your question is addressed to? After all the questions have been asked, candidates will be given the opportunity to answer the questions addressed to them. Is there anyone from the Forum for Democracy Group who would like to ask a question? That's Mr Van Pareren.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-6.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It may be a repeat question, but we attach great importance to the fact that the very technical issues of the Presidency and the Vice-Presidentship will also be given full attention in the next parliamentary term. That is why the question to the candidate, Mrs Gerkens, is how much experience she has with the whole construction process, the renovation process and all the other things that come in particular as a risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-6.u35	Thank you, Mr. Van Pareren. Does anyone wish to speak on behalf of the VVD Group? That is not the case. Anyone on behalf of the CDA Group? That is not the case. Green Left? D66? The Labour Party? The PVV? The SP? Yes, Mr. Kox.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-6.u36	Mr. Chairman. I have an issue that has not yet been raised in previous questions, but which I believe is relevant. In the international context, in the Interparliamentary Union and the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, members of this House have committed themselves to contributing to the promotion of parliaments free of sexism and sexual harassment. A study by the IPU showed that there are disturbing data on the existence of sexism and sexual harassment in and around parliaments of the world and in Europe. Therefore, to all three candidates the question: do they think that this is an important issue that the Houseary Commission should also look at and that this also fits in with having a safe parliament and a parliament where integrity is highly appreciated in all respects? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-6.u37	Thank you, Mr. Kox. Then Mrs Bikker on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-6.u38	Thank you, Mr President. I have two questions. The first relates to the Code of Conduct Integrity. I would like to ask Mr Atsma and Mr De Vries what their ambition is on this point. Can they give us a little more insight into that? I would like to ask Mr De Vries a more informative question. Your résumé says you're the spokesman for the House of Representatives. Do you intend to remain so when you become Vice-President of this house?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-6.u39	Thank you, Mrs Bikker. The Party for Animals? The 50PLUS fraction? The SGP? The Independent Senate Group? None of these groups has any questions. I would like to give the floor to Mr Atsma once again in alphabetical order.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-6.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. As far as I have been able to note, I have received two questions, but not so much about my experience with construction projects and large construction activities. I would like to go into that, but that is obviously not necessary. I'm glad you did, too. By the way, I have had the pleasure of being a member of the committee in the House of Representatives which examined the construction fraud, the building survey. I was allowed to walk with you on the preliminary course. I am still grateful that I have had the opportunity to do so, because I have benefited enormously from this in later activities. At least that's how I experienced it myself. Mr Kox cut the subject of sexual harassment and referred to the IPU. Well, let it be a coincidence that Mr Arda Gerkens and I have been allowed to be part of the Dutch delegation to the IPU several times in recent years. It must be no secret that as a Dutch delegation we have fully supported the objectives set by the IPU, the international forum of parliamentarians, to combat sexual harassment wherever possible and to set a good example in it. This applies both within the parliament and within the organization of the apparatus of the Upper Chamber. There can be no discussion about that. Of course, it's also something that has to come from yourself. That is something that was very strongly expressed within the IPU, within that gremium of more than 1,500 international parliamentarians. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the question of integrity on the part of the Christian Union. Over the last few months, we have discussed the subject on several occasions. It is a matter for individual Members of Parliament to constantly ask that question: does what I do in my daily work next to the First Chamber relate to parliamentary work in a responsible manner? You have to ask yourself that question all the time. I think that's seven days a week. At the same time, of course, within the context of the Bureau and the House's Committee, you should constantly ask this question to the Chamber. The fact that we have discussed this intensively over the last few months has, I think, made everyone even more aware of the responsibility we have in this regard. You may continue to appeal to me and I assume all 74 other Members of this Chamber. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-6.u41	Thank you, Mr. Atsma. I call Mrs Gerkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-6.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The first question is whether I have experience in managing large construction projects. Then I'm gonna be very honest. Unlike remodeling my own home, I have no experience with that. However, I do have experience building IT projects. They can also be very complex. By the way, my organization is a rather complex organization. However, as the second Vice-President, I am now at least accompanied by someone who has experience in this area. What's more important about the renovation is that we keep our place as First Chamber, literally and figuratively, because in the whole discussion we are in danger of being snowed under. If you ask me what I think is important about the major renovation that is coming, then it is important that we as a Chamber stay as short as possible outside this house and be back as soon as possible, and that the delay that is undoubtedly going to occur with the House of Representatives will not bother us. Then the question about sexual harassment at the IPU, or not at the IPU, but the investigation done by the IPU, an investigation that I myself have worked on. It is very interesting to hear and see what experiences there are in parliaments; parliaments you expect to be very civilized. So yes, I think it's good to have that discussion here too, not because I'm worried, I don't have the immediate reason to say "that's why it has to be done now," but because, as in the integrity debate, I think that we should constantly insist that that can't happen and that we should therefore build a culture in which it can be discussed, in which one dares to come forward. In particular, given the fact that this Chamber unfortunately counts so few women, I think it is a good thing that we continue to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-6.u43	Thank you, Mrs Gerkens. I call Mr De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-6.u44	Mr. Chairman. Mr Kox's question about a secure parliament. Fully yes, of course we must and as soon as possible. We will have to do everything we can with each other to create that safe environment for ourselves. Then Mrs Bikker with the question about the Code of Conduct Integrity. I didn't hear Mr. Atsma about that, so I'll be happy to answer this question. I was actually a little surprised that this Code of Integrity is now so topical. I myself thought it had been implemented many, many years ago. I have taken good note of this and I must say that I can only fully support this implementation and I am 100% committed to it. So here's your answer. The question about spokespersonship is very easy to answer. Should I be elected second Vice-President today, I will resign from office today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-6.u45	Thank you, Mr. De Vries. Let's move on to the election. I'll briefly explain the rules. In accordance with Rule 113 of the Rules of Procedure, the election shall take place in writing by secret ballot. In order to be elected second Vice-President, the candidate shall require an absolute majority of the votes validly cast. I would point out that not duly or insufficiently filled ballot papers pursuant to Rule 114 of the Rules of Procedure are invalid. This includes blank votes. A valid vote is a ballot note on which clearly no more and other than the name "I propose: the last name "Life" of a Member State. Invalid votes affect the absolute majority necessary to achieve the choice made by the Chamber. I'm gonna take a look around and make sure that's clear to everyone. That's the case. If none of the candidates achieves an absolute majority in the first round, a second, also completely free round of voting will take place. This means that you can vote on the same candidate as in the first ballot. If, once again, no one has obtained the absolute majority, a third vote shall be taken on the two persons who, in the second vote, have united the majority of the votes in themselves. I shall appoint Members to vote: Mrs Klip-Martin, who will announce the result of the vote; Ms Bredenoord; Ms Baay-Timmerman; Mr Ton van Kesteren. I ask the guardian of the Chamber to distribute the ballot papers and to fill in the ballot papers with the surname Atsma, Gerkens or De Vries and fold them twice. For the sake of clarity, I say that it is forbidden for anyone to photograph or film during the votes. This applies to everyone in the room and in the public gallery. The wait is now until the members have filled out the notes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-6.u46	I ask the guardian of the Chamber to collect the ballot papers and deposit them with the ballot board. I would ask the voters to take the place at the table in the middle of the room and to begin their work. Once again, for the sake of clarity, I say that it is forbidden for anyone to photograph or film during the votes. This applies to everyone in the room and in the public gallery. I give the floor to Mrs Klip-Martin.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-6.u47	Mr President, we have a difference of one vote between the two Turvers. That is to say, there is disagreement as to whether it is 25 or 24 votes, if I say it right, for Gerkens. 24 for Gerkens or 25 for Gerkens, and 32 or 31 for Atsma. I hear all kinds of parallel moods.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-6.u48	Mrs Klip, I would ask you to count again. The voting committee must determine the result.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-6.u49	We're counting again. One more out loud?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-6.u50	I'd love to, Mrs. Klip.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-6.u51	Mr. Chairman. Again, 74 votes were cast, 1 on Mrs Rookmaker, 17 on Mr De Vries, 25 on Mrs Gerkens and 31 on Mr Atsma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-6.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Klip. I note that none of the candidates has obtained an absolute majority. A second vote is therefore required under Rule 116 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. In this second round all three candidates, Atsma, Gerkens and De Vries, will participate again. Is there a need for a short suspension? No. Then I ask the voters to take their own place. Once again, I ask the guardian of the Chamber to share the ballot papers and the members to cast their votes and fold the ballot paper twice, after writing the name Atsma, Gerkens or De Vries. The wait is now until the members have filled out the note.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-6.u53	I ask the guardian of the Chamber to collect the ballot papers and deposit them with the ballot board. I would ask the voters once again to sit down at the table in the middle of the room and to begin their work. I call Mrs Klip-Martin.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-6.u54	This means that 74 votes were cast: 31 to Mr Atsma, 26 to Mrs Gerkens, and 17 to Mr De Vries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-6.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Klip. As no candidate has yet obtained an absolute majority, the provisions of Rule 116 of the Rules of Procedure provide for a third vote to be taken on the two persons who, in the second vote, have the highest number of votes. That is Mr Atsma and Mrs Gerkens. So you can only vote for Mr Atsma or Mrs Gerkens in this round. For the record, when the votes end in this final vote, the vote will be taken in accordance with Rule 117 of the Rules of Procedure. I would ask the guardian of the Chamber once again to pass around the ballot papers and to cast the Members' votes. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Is five minutes enough? Yeah, I'll suspend for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-6.u56	I ask the guardian of the Chamber once again to pass the ballots around and I ask Members to cast their votes. They can enter the surname Atsma or Gerkens. I would ask Members to close the ballot paper twice. For the sake of clarity, I would like to say once again that it is forbidden for anyone to photograph or film during the votes. This applies to everyone in the room and in the public gallery. The wait is now until the members have completed their ballot papers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-6.u57	I ask the guardian of the Chamber to collect the ballot papers and deposit them with the ballot board. I would ask the voters once again to sit down at the table in the middle of the room and to begin their work. I call Mrs Klip-Martin.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-6.u58	Mr. Chairman. This means that 74 votes were cast: 36 on Mr Atsma and 38 on Mrs Gerkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-07-09-eerstekamer-6.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Klip. On the basis of the result of this vote, I note that Mrs Arda Gerkens has obtained an absolute majority in accordance with Rule 115 of the Rules of Procedure and has thus been elected second Vice-President of the First Chamber of the States General. I would like once again to thank the candidates who lost weight in both rounds for their commitment. I would like to thank the members of the electoral committee very warmly for their work. I shall now suspend the sitting so that you can congratulate both Vice-Presidents, but only after I congratulate the new Vice-Presidents first. I shall suspend the sitting until 7 p.m. In fact, committee meetings are still taking place today which may result in legislative proposals to be dealt with as a hammer piece. That's what we're gonna do at 7:00. The finalisation of the bill on the child-related budget will also be on the table, as discussed earlier. If desired, an order proposal will be made before the vote.
