ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-4.u1	The next item is a short third term of the General Political Reviews. I would like to welcome the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate and the Minister for the Environment and Living to the Upper House. I understand that Mr Koffeman wishes to amend his motion under letter F and that Mr Gerbrandy wishes to amend his amended motion under letter M further. To this end, I reopen the General Political Reviews for a short third term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-4.u2	I give the floor to Mr Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-4.u3	Thank you, Mr President. The cutting of forests at home and abroad and their stowing in biomass plants with billions of subsidies cannot be justified. I drew attention to this during the General Political Reviews in the form of a motion. In order to give this motion broad support, I have been able to optimize its considerations. I am particularly obliged to a number of colleagues who have helped me to do this, especially colleagues Vendrik, Crone and Schalk, for their valuable advice. That led to the next motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-4.u4	The Koffeman c.s. motion. (' point ') has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that next year, the Cabinet has allocated EUR 11.4 billion of subsidy to biomass power plants;]] [[noting that in the short term the climate gains of wood by-products in coal plants are negligible to negative;]] [[calls on the Government to put an end to all planned subsidies for wood-based by-products in coal-fired power stations as soon as possible, pending the sustainability framework of the PBL and the forthcoming ESC opinion on biomass, and laying down further rules in Parliament,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This amended motion was signed by Mr Koffeman, Mr Teunissen, Mr Otten, Mr De Vries, Mr Rosenmöller, Mr Cliteur, Mr Gerkens, Mr Gerbrandy, Mr Schalk and Mr Nicolaï.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-O]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-4.u5	I have a question for Mr. Koffeman. In his request, he referred to the cessation of wood-based aid as soon as possible, but then he said: "... in anticipation of the sustainability framework," and so on. So we're gonna stop it now? Is the strike going to take place right now, or is he waiting for the advice? Because that is not entirely clear in this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-4.u6	The motion calls for a halt, pending further opinions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-4.u7	To clarify: you want to stop it, but if anything else comes out of the opinion or the framework, could it be restarted?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-4.u8	Continuing insight can, of course, always lead to policy changes, but in the first instance we are calling for a halt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-4.u9	Thank you, Mrs Faber and Mr Koffeman. Then I give the floor to Mr Gerbrandy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-4.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The motion on the landlord's tax has been improved and has been improved again in order to gain wider support in this Chamber. In the General Political Reviews I pointed out that I found it strange that in 2013 the landlord levy was introduced because there was a budget deficit and that we are now in a housing emergency situation. There is enough in the state budget to be able to recover this landlord's tax. That is why the motion has been slightly modified on three points on the basis of discussions with colleagues in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-4.u11	The modified Gerbrandy c.s. motion (, letter, was letter B) has been further amended to read as follows: The Chamber, heard the debate, whereas a serious housing emergency has arisen in the Netherlands, partly because housing corporations and private landlords of social housing have been subject to a landlord's tax since 2013; whereas this landlord levy was imposed at the time in order to alleviate the deficit in the state budget; noting that the situation is now completely different; noting that there is therefore no longer any reason to maintain this landlord's tax; noting that the corporations and private landlords of social housing can make a substantial contribution to building more good, sustainable and affordable houses for, in particular, people with lower incomes; noting that housing corporations and private landlords of social housing with these 1.7 billion euros per year should be able to contribute to resolving the government's housing shortage and climate objectives; calls on the Government to reduce significantly the landlord's tax by 2020 and to abolish it in the long term, and goes to the order of the day. This further amended motion was signed by Mr Gerbrandy, Mr Kox, Mr Rosenmöller, Mr Vos, Mr Van Rooijen and Mr Koffeman. She gets letter P, was letter M ().
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-4.u12	Mr President, thank you. I would also like to thank Mr Koffeman for his supplementary motion. Let me be honest: common consent on the one hand but also appropriate resistance on the other hand compete here in me. I will try to explain to you in as short a time as possible, one minute, why this cabinet finds that biomass restraint is in place but why I am going to discourage this motion. Biomass is inevitably part of the mix. I do not find that specific as a private opinion. That is what the IPCC and the International Energy Agency think, the parties we need to explain to the rest of the population that we need to do something about the climate. Biomass is an inevitable part of that. What is important is that that biomass is really sustainable and not, to put it bluntly, fake. If we're gonna throw primeval forests into a coal power plant, everyone understands that it's fake and not real. It is also appropriate to focus on air quality. I agree with critics, but when we talk about wood pallets in coal power stations, they are not primeval forests. Wood pallets are a very limited part of the SDE anyway. The high numbers in this motion, I can't bring home. As a biomass, we use the residual flows of the traditional timber production that has been going on for centuries. That is thinning wood, pruning waste and waste from the wood industry. That is what the Dutch sustainability framework says. So there are no primordial forests in coal power stations. We'll do the rest streams. As far as the implementation of the motion is concerned, the judgment depends on how you read it. If I read 'a proposed grant as soon as possible' in such a way that the decisions already issued should no longer be complied with and therefore we will have to stop the decisions already issued, then I must advise against the motion because this will lead to major damages claims and failure to comply with the sustainability rules. If it says here that we do not issue any new grant decisions for wood-burning in coal-fired power stations, then I will leave this motion for a resolution to the House. Bon! We are not going to issue new decisions on wood-burning in coal-fired power stations. Here's to it. With that explanation, I'll leave the motion to judge Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-4.u13	I note, then, that the Minister's opinion is: Court of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-4.u14	Would the Minister say what he means by that? Does this mean that he suspends the new applications until after the ESC opinion and the PBL opinion? Or do I need to understand something else and he says: I will stop subsidising biomass?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-4.u15	No, that means that the existing decisions on wood-burning in coal-fired power stations will continue. Some of them are running out of shape, but now I'm going to do it out of my mind for a few more years and others are going to run until after 2025. I'm just saying it roughly to make sure I don't say any wrong things; I'm doing this out of my head. But there are no new decisions for subsidies in coal-fired power stations. That's cabinet policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-4.u16	And by that, you mean until the sustainability framework arrives, or is that what you mean anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-4.u17	No, that's what we're talking about anyway. The coalition agreement states that we do not accept any new decisions on subsidies for biomass power plants. The motion is about coal power stations. If a plant becomes a full biomass plant, it is not expected that there will be subsidies for it. We have left that in the middle, but then it is no longer coal-fired power stations. Then they are biomass plants, and we have not yet expressed our opinion on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-4.u18	So it's just how you read the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-4.u19	Existing decisions are taken in coal-fired power stations. New decisions on coal-fired power stations are not included. We have not yet spoken about biomass plants in general. With that interpretation, this motion gets judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-4.u20	So it is cabinet policy and the motion is superfluous?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-4.u21	I always like to emphasise the positive in a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-4.u22	Then it is good to know how to read the motion according to the person who filed it. When it comes to new decisions, I understand what the Minister is saying. When it comes to existing decisions, there is an unreliable government. That would be a difficult problem for us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-4.u23	Sure. That would make for those damages claims.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-4.u24	Thank you, Minister. Anybody want to speak? A question was put by Mr Knapen to the author, Mr Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-4.u25	Mr. Chairman. I think I have already answered that question to Mr Faber. In the first instance, we want a stop to the addition of wood to new applications. There can still be further insights on this, but there is nothing about that in this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-4.u26	Thank you, Mr. Coffeeman. Anybody want to speak? Then I will give the floor to the Minister for the Environment and Living.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-4.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The motion talks about housing shortage, but fortunately there is room for investment by housing corporations. In order to speed up the use of that space, the cabinet has proposed a reduction in the landlord's tax. The assessment of the landlord's tax in 2016 showed that the landlord's tax was payable by the sector and that there was still scope to invest more within the financial framework. In recent years, the rate of the landlord's tax has been reduced and a new tax reduction for the sustainability of rentals has been introduced. The Tax Plan also includes a new tax reduction for new construction of 1 billion in ten years. This comes next to the housing impulse of 1 billion. The financial indicators of the sector show that the sector will have sufficient lending capacity in the coming years to invest further, in addition to the 43 billion planned in the books up to 2023. This is also reflected in the picture of the new indicative spending area housing corporations from 2019. This shows that investment capacity has even increased by 12.6 billion euros and has increased to almost 29 billion in 2019. I therefore see no reason to reduce the landlord's tax at the moment. There's no cover for it either, so I should discourage the motion. I could also imagine the House holding the motion, because in the first quarter there will be another review of the effects of the landlord levy. I would also like to point out that the Ronnes motion will be implemented, which will give an insight into the task and resources of housing corporations in the middle of next year. It will be sent to your room next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-4.u28	Thank you, Madam Secretary. You're proposing to hold the motion. Does the petitioner wish to respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-4.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to put the motion to the vote, but I think it is very sensible to hold it. For example, this Chamber can throw itself further into the matter, and then send a very clear signal to the cabinet. You say you invest 1 billion in ten years. But you first withheld 2 billion in 2013. There was a shortage. Now there's no shortage. The housing corporations built 30,000 houses in 2013. Immediately the following year, that was only half, 15,000. We have a problem in this country. Madam Secretary, I accept your offer and may return to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-4.u30	At the request of Mr Gerbrandy, I propose that his further amended motion (35300, letter P, letter M) be retained. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-4.u31	The cabinet's ambition is to build 75,000 houses a year in the coming years. That's what we're gonna have to do with each other. This is also what the reduction of the landlord's tax is aimed at.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-4.u32	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in this third term?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-4.u33	I'd like to suspend for a moment to discuss the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-12-eerstekamer-4.u34	Is five minutes enough? Then I'll suspend the meeting.
