ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-9.u1	We continue with the VAO Progress policy war victims. I would like to welcome the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport. I give the floor to Mr Kerstens on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. This year and next year we celebrate 75 years of liberation. That's good. It is also good that the Secretary of State has indicated that the cabinet is going to do its best to convince social partners, trade unions and employers that 5 May should now be a day off. What is less beautiful, or rather deeply sad, is that 75 years after that, a number of issues are still dragging on which the celebration of 75 years of liberation becomes a celebration for many people with a deep black mourning edge. I am referring first of all to the Indian question. We have talked about this many times, recently at an impressive round table meeting with people who have experienced a lot in person. I'm about to file a motion on that. I would also like to draw attention to another motion. In the end, the NS wanted to settle for victims of the Jewish, Roma and Sinti communities who were transported by the railways to extermination camps during the Second World War, but did not do so for resistance fighters. I think that's weird. I know that the Secretary of State for Finance is in consultation with the NS and with those involved. I ask the Secretary of State to intervene in this matter as responsible from the cabinet for war victims.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-9.u3	If you have any motions, I'd start with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-9.u4	I have the motion now. That should fit exactly. I therefore call on the Secretary of State to intervene in this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the "backpay scheme" was positively received in the Indian community upon its introduction;]] [[noting, however, that the way in which it has been implemented has led to much disappointment and grief in the same community;]] [[Whereas it would not be in the spirit of the scheme and would be detrimental to the confidence of the Indian community in the Dutch government if people wrongly did not receive benefits;]] [[calls on the Government, within the financial area reserved for that purpose, to make a gesture to those who state that they fall within the scope of the scheme (paid military and civil servants) and whose application has been rejected,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kerstens and Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-20454-151]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-9.u5	Mr. Chairman. Here we are again, I would say, when it comes to the Indian issue. I have two motions on this subject, which I shall begin with. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Indian question has still not been properly resolved;]] [[noting that neither the "Gebaar" nor the "Backpay" scheme has led to the restoration of law of the Indian community;]] [[calls on the Government to set up an independent committee of wise persons who, following the NIOD reports of 2005 and 2006, make a final assessment of how the Dutch State should shape the restoration of the law of the Indian community in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven and Mr Kerstens. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-20454-152]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-9.u6	Then the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Backpay Payment Scheme does not apply to widows of civil servants or military personnel who were employed with the Dutch-Indian Government at the time of the Japanese occupation and were not paid a full or full salary over the period of Japanese occupation;]] [[states that the living widows should also be eligible for this Backpay benefit scheme,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven and Mr Kerstens. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-20454-153]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-9.u7	Mr. Chairman. I would ask the Secretary of State to look very favourably at the last motion, because it is a very fundamental point that, if he accepts it, it will require very little resources. These funds are also available to meet the widows. In conclusion, I would like to endorse Mr Kerstens' comment on the former victims of the resistance...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-9.u8	You need to get to the motion, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-9.u9	The COVVS sent us a letter. I think the Secretary of State has that letter, too. I'd like to hear what he's gonna do with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-9.u10	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Renkema on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-9.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed: 2020, 75 years of liberation, 75 years of freedom. We can look forward to that. At the same time, it is a subject on which there are sides that are still painful for many people. It appears once again in every debate that it is a sensitive subject. The last AO was also an eventful consultation. First of all, I would like to join with the question, or indeed the call, of Mr Kerstens when it comes to the regulation that the NS has adopted. I have a motion on education. If we want to look back together collectively and in full on the Second World War and its aftermath, then I really think that education is extremely important for future generations. As far as I'm concerned, I'm not alone in that lack of an integral view of our history. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands celebrates 75 years of freedom next year, paying particular attention to the occupation of the Netherlands;]] [[noting that the Foundation's Learning Plan for Development concludes that a number of aspects of our history, such as the decolonization of the Dutch East Indies, the Bersiap period and the arrival of Indian Dutch people in our country, are clearly less attention paid to education;]] [[Whereas the history curriculum largely defines our collective memory and hence our national identity;]] [[points out that the recommendation of the Foundation for the Development of Learning Plan (Stichting Leerplan Ontwikkeling) should be followed up as a matter of urgency with regard to the provision of education in the Netherlands-Indies and decolonisation;]] [[invites the Government to consult with educational organisations, schools, teacher training courses and educational material developers on this Recommendation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Renkema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-20454-154]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-9.u12	I've got two minutes, so I'll start right away, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to greatly ease the burden of proof for the back-pay scheme, as this was agreed with the former State Secretary and because Defence states that it was turbulent times, not everything was recorded and not all archives are yet public,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to examine where the 4,777 files of private individuals and traders who have registered in the period 1 May - 1 August 1969 are located under the Wassenaar Traktate and to ensure that they are not destroyed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to abolish the concept of "collective" from the Collective Recognition Square Indian Memory Centre/Sophiahof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-20454-155]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-20454-156]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-20454-157]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-9.u13	Next move. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to engage with, among other things, the Indian Platform 2.0 to ensure that we can celebrate 75 years of freedom together,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-20454-158]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-9.u14	I'm asking the Secretary of State to sit in V.K. because we're moving on to the V.A.O. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-9.u15	Thank you, Mr President. A number of motions have been tabled and a question has been asked about the regulation that the NS is working on. Maybe it's okay if I go into that first. I can say in general that I was addressed to my responsibility on the basis of my portfolio for war victims and war victims. The regulation that the NS is now concluding is very controversial. The latest news is, as you know, that the Ministry of Finance, also shareholder of the NS, has contacted NS, following letters and e-mails that have come to reconsider this case, to see if they are making the right choices. I know that the NS is doing so, on the basis of these contacts, but probably also of its own considerations, because they will also be covered by the requests. That review is under way and I assume that at some point it will lead to new information and that the NS will inform about it, on the basis of the NS' own responsibility. If Mr Kerstens asks if I can take my responsibility there, I say that the Minister of Finance is the first point of contact, because he is a shareholder of the NS. That's the way it went. We're gonna hear some news about that soon, I suppose.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-9.u16	It's clear what the Secretary of State says. I would ask for a little more clarity about a word he used: the request has been made to'rethink'. Is that a request indicating a particular direction? The Secretary of State said that this was done in response to the letters of resistance fighters, among others, who fell outside the scheme, while their fate was the same: taken away by the Railways to extermination camps. Can I understand the term "rethink" of the Secretary of State in such a way that he means that the Dutch State as shareholder considers that the NS should also comply with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-9.u17	It is right that Mr Kerstens should ask for this clarification. The Minister of Finance asked the NS as a major shareholder to respond to these requests. No direction has been indicated because the requests speak for themselves. The fact that attention has been paid to this is of course not an empty question. They are asked to respond to those requests. I believe that we must take account of the responsibilities involved. The NS is an independent organisation in the hands of the government, but an independent organisation has its own responsibilities. Just as we will not address ABN AMRO to the responsibilities of employees' legal status, we will do so at the NS. But that the question has been asked is an important signal from the Empire to the NS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-9.u18	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-9.u19	Finally, Mr President. That's clear. I am sure the Secretary of State will not blame me for coming back to this if this review does not take place in the desired direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-9.u20	You're free to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-9.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. By the way, I think that a shareholder can and sometimes even has to say something to the person he loves the shares from.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-9.u22	That's obvious. Speaking of purity, I would like to suggest to Mr Kerstens that if he wishes to put this on the agenda one more time, he should contact the govern ment who really is about it. That's the shareholder, the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-9.u23	It's also about war victims. So I think it is also a matter for the Secretary of State. It is not for nothing that the resistance fighters have also expressed their concerns towards our committee about the current policy. I would like to see the Secretary of State interfere with this through the cabinet, because of course that is always possible. We're curious about the outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-9.u24	A very brief response to that. You can also assume from us that the cabinet speaks with one voice. If the Minister of Finance, with his weight, brings that to the attention, he will do so on my behalf. What Mr Kerstens and Mr Van Gerven are asking for is perfectly logical: bring it to the attention and couple back what the outcome is. I myself assume that NS will inform you about this itself. If that doesn't happen, we'll have another conversation here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-9.u25	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-9.u26	Then there's the motions. I don't even know if I have them all here, but I'm going through them in the filing order. In the motion in part No. 151 of Mr Kerstens and Mr Van Gerven are asked to use what is left of the reserved financial area to make a gesture to those who have indicated that they fall within the scope of the scheme but whose application has been rejected. I understand that request. I find it very complicated, too, and I'll tell you why. The evaluation of the implementation of the scheme, which we discussed in various consultations, has shown that the way in which the Social Insurance Bank has implemented the scheme has been correct. What turns out is that people are disappointed. We all know that. We all regret that. However, the fact is that the SVB carried out the scheme correctly. In fact, most of the benefits were granted on the basis of automatic decisions. In doing so, the SVB has complied with the necessary coulance at our explicit request. People whose applications have been rejected are simply not included in the scheme. It would be unfair, at least that is my perception of doing something for the people whose application has been rejected and not involving the group that has waived an application because these people thought they were hopeless. I actually think it is a question that should not be asked here in the light of the evaluation we have had. We have had an intense debate on this. In that light, I would like to discourage the motion. Then the motion to part No. 152. It begins with: considering that the Indian question has still not been properly resolved. That is a consideration I cannot accept in the light of what I have just said. We have had a lot of debates with each other on the Indian issue. With regard precisely to the back-pay scheme, the evaluation has shown that it has been properly implemented. We all know that people are disappointed, and we all regret that, but that is a fact. Mr Van Gerven and Mr Kerstens then asked in the motion to put an independent committee to work to see whether you could not make a gesture. I find it very complicated to resume such a general discussion. We discussed it at length at that time and it has led to extremely violent debates on the subject. In my term of general consultation, I quoted my predecessor, Secretary of State Van Rijn. He said: "I am very aware of the fact that everything we invent can never compensate for what people in the Dutch East Indies have experienced." I am also very aware of the suffering and disappointment that many people still feel. So I also understand the idea behind the motion. The cabinet has the line and I believe that a majority of the Chamber also has that line: we have opted for an individual arrangement alongside the collective arrangement and we want to look forward. If we put that committee to work now, I will see to it that we are going to do the whole history again with equal pain and misery. That is why I would advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-9.u27	I'm gonna take a look at Mr. Van Gerven first because it's his motion. Or would you like to say something about another point, Mrs Agema?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-9.u28	I was standing here first. By the way, I am never allowed to sign in from Mr. Van Gerven, but I would have been very happy to do so in this case. Of course, we've had a very turbulent general consultation, which no one can deny in this house. But to put these people away as "disappointed" really ignores all the qualifications that a Secretary of State should give. We have had a hearing that has lasted a whole day in which incredibly many loose ends have been highlighted and which you absolutely cannot qualify as "disappointed." Because of all these loose ends and because of the fact that this Secretary of State wants to celebrate 75 years of freedom next year and of course uses terms like "inclusion," something will have to be done to resolve this impasse. And a committee of wise men could do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-9.u29	No, I'm sorry. You can't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-9.u30	I would like to go along with Mrs Agema in the qualification that 'destruction' is slightly expressed. There is a lot of grief and much, much old very and also very topical. There are wounds. Just, I don't hear Mrs. Agema asking a question. She is in favour of setting up a committee, and I have already responded to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-9.u31	Finally, Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-9.u32	The question I am asking is to set up a committee of wise men and indeed not to put these people away as disappointed and certainly not to rub them in a wound and make them bigger and bigger. Because that's what the Secretary of State does. He's making it worse and worse by keeping the door shut, by always giving zero to the reek. We have had a whole day's hearing in which so many facts have been put forward and so many loose ends have been presented. And then we're dealing with a secretary of state who's just keeping the door shut. And you can't. He wants to celebrate 75 years of freedom next year. I think we're going to do that together with the Indian community.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-9.u33	Last time, I'd say. Are you guys taking it easy up there in the public gallery? I understand very well that this is very emotional and it affects you directly, but it is important to suppress your emotions, however difficult that may be. Secretary of State, would you like to respond to Mrs. Agema?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-9.u34	With all my love, Mr. Chairman. No new question has been asked, and I understand Mrs Agema's point. We're just looking at this differently. In general consultation, I referred to how this was achieved. There's been a long history to settle things. The arrangement established under my predecessor in office, Secretary of State Van Rijn, has had a long history. It was established with the agreement of the Indische Platform and of the House of Representatives. At the time, this arrangement was very much in line with the spirit of the Treaty. After that, there were several debates, including with Secretary of State Van Rijn. In doing so, he has always kept the line: this is it too, this backpaying scheme is it too. That's what he's been saying. Mrs Agema cannot agree with that, but Secretary of State Van Rijn has always said so. And that people don't agree with that... Okay. We have all been aware that Secretary of State Van Rijn has said: we must now look forward. That's why we have the collective scheme. I'll deal with that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-9.u35	I understand that this has been discussed extensively, but you may correct something, Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-9.u36	It's actually wrong. Secretary of State Van Rijn said: "A page has been turned, but the book is not closed." That's completely different from what this Secretary of State is telling us right now. And I'm getting suspicious of this file. Why so rigid?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-9.u37	I want to cast the thought that I want to close the book, really far from me. I really don't think it's a good idea to say that here. My predecessor, Mr Van Rijn, said: 'We are turning our backs'. That is what I have literally quoted in the general consultation. And if Mrs Agema puts other words in my mouth, that is her problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-9.u38	Mr Van Gerven, on the motion, because we are not going to repeat the general discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-9.u39	No, but I filed this motion. It is a motion that looks like two drops of water to a motion a few years ago, with the votes in the House of Representatives virtually cease. It showed how deep the wound is still in the Indian community. We've gone a few years now, and if we look at the Indian community, we have to find that the wound is still there. It's not solved. That is why I think it is very fair to put that motion to the vote again. Can the Secretary of State comment on what the Indian community thinks, and not on what the Chamber has decided or what the Cabinet thinks or what a majority of Parliament thinks? Indeed, in the Indian community, there is still a deeply rooted feeling that they have been wronged. Somehow that has to be sequestered in a good, orderly way, so to speak. We could do that with a committee that's outside both sides.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-9.u40	I would like to continue with the line that my predecessor has spoken. I have always said, and I haven't done any complicated things about it, that that's my line too. We've made arrangements. And when it comes to the individual story, the backpay, we're turning our backs. That is what I have always said, and that is also in line with what my predecessor has said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-9.u41	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-9.u42	There are so many people who would like to close the book, but in an orderly way. I have to say that the Secretary of State has no room for that. In that case, the Chamber will have to give its opinion again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-9.u43	Yeah, that imaging... I understand that Mr Van Gerven seems to be pleasing to paint the picture that I am confused with all the sounds I hear and oppose. I've always told a consistent story. This is also supported by a large majority in the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. I should like to comment on the motion for a resolution on part No. 153. It touches the position of the widows. This point has also been discussed in great detail in general consultations. I would like to draw attention to the history of how the back-pay scheme was created. In 2013, the Indian Platform put its dreams on paper, the so-called ex-gratia scheme, to settle moral debt. On this basis, an impact analysis has been carried out by the Social Insurance Bank. In this impact analysis, a distinction was made between the primary target group and the successors/next, including widows. In 2015, in consultation with the Chamber, it was found that the fulfilment of all the platform's wishes was an extremely complex and costly operation. It was then decided to introduce a contained regime. Then we are talking about the individual backpay scheme from 2015. That had the broad agreement, as I have just said, of the Indische Platform and of the House of Representatives. Then I come to the committee and the point I made just now. We have always taken the view from the cabinet: we are looking to the future...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-9.u44	Shall I just move on, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-9.u45	I think the people are leaving the room. We wait for a moment; then we can continue with this VAO. I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-9.u46	Mr. Chairman. I have made a general comment on the specific position of widows and, in line with the previous cabinet's choice, I said that we want to turn a page and look to the future; we do not want to go into another extension of the regime. So I want to stick to the line chosen in 2015 and continue that line consistently. For that reason, I advise against the motion in part No. 153.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-9.u47	A brief response, Mr. Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-9.u48	It cannot be about money, because it concerns a very limited number of people, when we talk about widows. We were just talking about the NS scheme to accommodate the group of Jews we're talking about. The NS did involve the widows and children of that group. How does the Secretary of State make that difference?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-9.u49	That is indeed a difference. It is a new scheme that has now been designed by the NS, which we can take note of. There is also a great deal of criticism of this, as we have all noted. The backpay scheme we agreed on here, which at the time was very widely supported by Parliament, does not involve the widows separately. As far as I am concerned, there is no new fact that justifies the fact that we are going to do so now. If we were to do that, I would predict that this is the bad thing about it, because we are going to have a huge amount of complicated cases, in which people have to prove that they are next of kin when there are no papers and people just fall outside or just in. This is causing a great deal of unrest, and we want to turn that page around.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-9.u50	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-9.u51	The Secretary of State is creating confusion. The motion says very clearly: the widows of still alive. So that's a very limited, well-identifiable group of people. That's the point I want to make. There is a new fact, namely that the scheme has been implemented and that there is much more money left than was budgeted. There is therefore no financial problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-9.u52	The latter is, of course, questionable. It also depends on how many people would be covered. Complicated is, for example, whether you lay the burden of proof with the widows and widowers concerned or with the execution organisation. There was a lot of ex-cavation in the backpay. We have checked once: a lot of things are about having a marriage, and that is not in the documents available to the SVB. Then we should consult other sources or ask the widows to prove it. We foresee that this will lead to a lot of problems. That is not necessarily a fundamental argument against it. My main argument to discourage the motion is that the backpay is as it is. A derived argument is that I assume that the under-exhaustment of the amount that was reserved for under-exhaustment will not be sufficient to resolve this by far.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-9.u53	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-9.u54	Mr. Chairman. Then there is Mr Renkema's motion to item No. 154, on education. We have also had a lot of discussions on this issue. I think it's a nice thought. In fact, Mr Renkema says: we want the educational offer to be updated to contemporary standards. I think we should separate two responsibilities. That is the responsibility of VWS, who bears responsibility for the benefits of the victims of war, the victims of war. And there's a responsibility of the Ministry of Education. As I have already said in general consultation, I have already indicated in previous consultations that I am doing my best to shape the educational side of the problem from my responsibilities. For example, in the collective scheme, which will be EUR 1 million this year and next year, we will also be giving room to raise educational projects that can serve as good examples to be rolled out in the country. The same is true of educational resources within the framework of 75 years of freedom. There is also separate money reserved for this. In this context, the National Committee 4 and 5 May is carrying out two contemporary education projects on the Dutch East Indies. One of them is called very concrete: the Dutch East Indies in Multivisuary. This is a sustainable digital learning environment to provide teaching materials for secondary education and MBO. I also fund guest classes in schools of people who have experienced the war in the Dutch East Indies. And I can already hear Mr Renkema thinking: these are projects you are doing in the context of the responsibility of VWS. If he says he wants to apply it to the entire education, that is a way of putting the curriculum in place that is quite exciting. In any case, I do not think that the question is well addressed by asking me, but that this question should be put to Education. I would love to talk about it with my colleague from Education, but I absolutely cannot guarantee that he will take over. If Mr Renkema wants to have that debate on how we are going to introduce these new insights into the curriculum, it should take place in the debate on the curriculum. That curriculum will soon be delivered by the Ministry of Education. In that light, I'd like to dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-9.u55	I find it extremely disappointing that this motion is being discouraged. A group of people has just left the public gallery, and soon that generation will not be in our society either. I think it is really essential that all students learn about history, and that this does not happen on the basis of projects and voluntary activities. That's not just my opinion. The motion refers to the SLO. That investigation was carried out a few years ago at the request of VWS. And the recommendation contained in the motion, I would like to put it into practice. I do not understand why the U.S. Secretary of State, whose predecessor has given the order, says: I shall pass that recommendation on to someone else.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-9.u56	Something was done with that a few years ago. At the request of VWS, the National Committee 4 and 5 May and Platform Reminder Second World War contacted the education on that recommendation. That has not led to this being fully translated into the curriculum so far. If that is Mr Renkema's wish, I understand it very well. I think we're both historians. Oh, he's not. Too bad! I think it is a very noble wish, but I think it should be addressed in the direction of the Ministry of Education. So it is not unwilling, but that is where we need to have this discussion about how a discussion takes shape.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-9.u57	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-9.u58	I need to take a look at the numbers of the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-9.u59	You're on the fifth motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-9.u60	That's the motion in part No. 155 by Mrs Agema in which the government is asked to make the criteria for the back-pay scheme considerably more flexible, because that was the way it was agreed. I have already said on this in response to other motions that we have had an evaluation of the backpay scheme. You may disagree with that, but the Chamber has said: that is a good evaluation. The conclusion was that the SVB properly implemented the scheme, i.e. properly. In fact, most of the benefits have been granted on their own initiative, and in doing so, coulance has been applied. In that light, I advise against the motion in part No. 155. Then the motion-Agema in part No. 156, on the files covered by Wassenaar's Tractate. I sent a letter to the Chamber on 1 November. I do not know if Mrs Agema has taken note of this. It says what has been done with the various archives. I would really like to hear from Mrs Agema what she is missing in that letter, but I do not know if that is allowed. If she says 'it is not clear to me on the basis of the letter', I would like to undertake to give further information to the Chamber. So I'd like to hear that from Mrs. Agema, Mr. Chairman. I just find it difficult to put a qualification on the motion. If I may explain the motion in such a way that Mrs Agema means that she wishes to know in detail where the archives have gone, with their names and their back number, when we speak of them, while the letter of 1 November does not provide sufficient clarity, I would like to say that we are still giving that clarity in more detail. As far as I'm concerned, I can even give the motion judgment room. As far as the latter is concerned, I think it is relevant whether Mrs Agema says: the letter of 1 November is not clear enough. Then I shall come to the motion for a resolution by Mr Agenma on part No. 157, on the expiry of the term "collective." That too is a discussion that we have had in general consultation. Of course, I also have my contacts with the Indian community and I know that the term "collective" is sensitive. I just don't have the illusion that if we think of another term for that, the community is satisfied with an alternative term. I think there is a whole world behind this, namely that one also wants individual satisfaction. I also know that an important part of the community recognizes itself in that term. I think it is very important for us to implement this collective arrangement as generously as possible. I would, however, advise against the motion to delete the word 'collective', especially in view of the fact that an important part of the community recognizes itself in it. Finally, Mr President, I should like to say a few words about the motion for a resolution. 158. In fact, I am asked with so many words: please talk to the Indian Platform 2.0. I think Mrs Agema knows that I do so at regular intervals, just like I do with the Indian Platform and also with other interest groups. I would like to understand the request before us, "converse with the Indian Platform 2.0," so that I have regular consultations with them and then I would like to discuss all the things they put on the agenda. I would find it very strange if I had to go round the table fifteen times a year with the Indian Platform 2.0 and much less with the Indian Platform. So I'm willing to start that conversation, but I'm not going to organize all the extra meetings with organizations in a pretty full agenda. If I may explain the motion in this way, perhaps Mrs Agema will agree with me. I would like to give the motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-9.u61	Okay, but I'm gonna ask the Secretary of State to pull out more than three quarters of an hour, which has become a bit of a rule. I'd make it a really good conversation. The President is also involved in this. We all want to celebrate 75 years of freedom next year. Here's what's gonna happen at all these memorial sessions. The Secretary of State shouldn't want that. He's got to stop with that bluntness and that coldness towards the Indian community. That bluntness is as cold as the reception of the repatriates after the war.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-9.u62	In the light of this remark, I have a tendency not to go into this at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-9.u63	The last piece went well, I saw. Anyway, the emotions sometimes play a role, especially in such a file. But I want to thank the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-28-tweedekamer-9.u64	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday.
