ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-12.u1	We are happy to continue with the second term of the Chamber. I would like to give the floor to Mr Hijink, but he is making me very happy because he is abandoning his second term. Mrs. Westerveld, you don't have to, do you? Well, let's do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-12.u2	Mr. Chairman. We've been working on a few things. Article 4.1.9 of the Youth Act states that youth aid providers should allow trusted persons to carry out their duties. Implementing decisions, to which the Minister referred, state the right of trusted persons to access buildings and to young people. The right of young people is not enshrined in the law or in those implementing acts. At least we haven't been able to find that anywhere. I didn't hear the Minister say it in the first term either. We are therefore very curious whether there will be any reaction to this. In any case, we find it crooked that you do regulate the right of institutions and trusters, but not of young people. We like to think along with the Ministry how we can solve this in a good way. Our preference is certainly that we should lay this down in the law. Mr. Chairman. I also have a motion on the annual report of the AKJ. As a result of the change in the law, new trusted people are introduced into the market. However, we believe it is important that we receive an annual report on the number of complaints and the nature of complaints. That's what the next motion for a resolution is about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the AKJ provides an annual overview of the number of complaints and the nature of the complaints in question, and reports thereon to the Ministry of the Interior of VWS;]] [[Whereas this monitoring function may fail when other parties join confidence-building in youth care;]] [[Considers that understanding of the work of trust in youth care provides a good picture of complaints and concerns among young people, parents and foster parents;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the number of complaints submitted and the nature of the complaints in question remains transparent each year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Westerveld. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35070-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-12.u3	Thank you. Then Mrs Bergkamp from the D66 group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-12.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I thank the Minister for his answers. I have two short questions. First of all, I very much welcome the Minister's commitment to engage with interest groups on the bulletin board to see how freedom of choice can be preserved. When can the Minister come back to that and in what form? My second question concerns pricing. I understood from the debate that tariffs would be indexed. But I understand that this is no longer the case from 2017. If that's not the case anymore, how come? Can the Minister give us a little more clarity and colour? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-12.u5	Thank you. Mr. Kerstens of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-12.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am tabling a very short motion because, in the debate with the Minister, it seemed equally unclear what exactly it was about. I have formulated the motion very carefully, so the Minister will be able to read again in a moment whether we have understood each other correctly or not. The motion concerns the identification of the bottlenecks surrounding the interpretation provision in the field of work. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that over time deaf and hearing impaired people are more likely to take up training or further training, work more often as self-employed workers and wish to work and have other functions than those laid down in the rules on interpretation facilities;]] [[Whereas the provision of interpreters in the field of work should contribute to the maximum participation of those involved in education and the labour market, and thus in our society;]] [[invites the Government, together with interest groups and the UWV, to identify the bottlenecks in the current regime, to consider whether and how to address them in a way that will best benefit them,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Christmas. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35070-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-12.u7	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-12.u8	Mr. Chairman. Thank you. I have some motions and some questions and I'm just doing them in order of entry. I shall begin with the Westerveld issue. We have devoted many words to that in the first term. Mrs Westerveld has done her homework and, of course, I have done her homework because there was plenty of time for it, just now. I'd like to try to explain it as best I can. In the first term, I indicated that access to the trusted person is currently regulated at the level of AMvB in the different laws. Mrs Westerveld just quoted that as well. She said that this was about the access of the trusted person to the buildings of the municipality or to the buildings of the youth aid providers or the buildings of the certified institutions, so it also states that the trusted person does not need the permission of third parties to speak with a young person. But what Mrs Westerveld is leaving out is that those provisions must be read in the relevant AMvBs in the light of provisions that are also contained in the law. I'll take the Youth Act, for example. It states that young people, parents or foster parents should be able to rely on independent persons of trust. That's what Article 1 says. It also states that the college informs young people, parents and foster parents in good time about the possibility of using the services of the trusted person. In short, it is a combination of the legal provisions that require the trusted person to be accessible and to ensure that the college informs young people and others about it, and then that is the mirroring clause on the other hand, the AMvB provides for the trusted person himself to have access to the youth, without the consent of third parties. In this context, it is legally well regulated. One more sentence, Mr. Chairman. This is without prejudice to the need to change the AMvB. If Mrs Westerveld says that for the sake of aesthetics she does not want it to be done in different places in the law and in addition in the AMvB, but that she would like to put it in one place, then I can do very well with her making an amendment on that point. Whether Mrs Westerveld is making an amendment or whether we are changing the AMvB, which still needs to be changed, namely on the basis of this bill, it does not in any way matter. We are also very willing to provide legal assistance. I would say, then, that the amendment to item No. 8 really needs to be changed, because it gives too narrow access. For example, there is no Safe Home. By the way, Mr President, this is really the last sentence on the Westerveld issue if we are doing so, perhaps we can include the numbering in it right away. Then we will no longer have to send a letter of amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-12.u9	Fine. We'd like to be in touch with the Ministry about that. I would like to make one more point of substance. The Minister states that it is closed, but in practice that is not the case. If you read the law strictly, that is not the case either, because a young person who, for example, is in a closed institution and who does not have access to his own phone does not always have automatic access to a trusted person. He or she still has to ask for permission from counselors, mentors or a guardian to get in touch. So I understand what the Minister is saying. I understand that you need to be able to read different provisions in conjunction. But the way I read it, it is not always properly regulated in practice and it is not boarded up in the law either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-12.u10	My impression is that the example mentioned by Mrs Westerveld is indeed an example where the current practice may deviate from the legal provisions. If you read the legal provisions in conjunction with each other, then there is no interpretation other than that there is a two-way traffic: 1. the young person has "access to" and 2. the trusted person has "access to" without the consent of third parties. In any case, if Mrs Westerveld is happy to regulate it better in an amendment for the sake of aesthetics, I am fine with that. I'm very good with that. So let's get to work that way. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 9 on the AKJ. I don't have that right now. Oh, here's the motion. It calls on the government to ensure that the number of complaints submitted and the nature of the complaints in question remains clear each year. I'm going to discourage that motion for a number of reasons. The first reason is that I think that makes the work of the trusted person very narrow. It's not just about complaints. It is also about mediation and all kinds of other forms of trust work that occur in practice. Think, for example, of de-escalation. Two. The majority of the trust work will simply continue to be done by the AKJ. They have such a solid legal position they're the only ones that are paid by the government, for example, for the work they do that I expect most of the work to stay with the AKJ. So that means that I can live up to my commitment to you, I believe that I can live up to Mrs Bergkamp by continuing to report on what the AKJ is getting in. That's what I keep doing. That's not where the problem is. But this motion would strictly ensure that I am committed to ensuring that I also know from any other confidential person that they are there, that they are active and what issues they are dealing with. And if they'll just report back to me... I can't have that overview. To be honest, I don't want that either. 'Cause it means someone's gotta be sitting around somewhere. I'd rather not. So I would like to keep the promise that I will simply inform you about what the AKJ is doing, but that we will not involve the other trusted people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-12.u11	I understand that very well and, at the same time, we naturally want to avoid it becoming so fragmented that in a number of years we will not know at all what complaints and other questions come to trust. There I am...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-12.u12	This would mean that I apologise for interrupting you so much that the AKJ is doing less and less of the work on the whole group of trusted people and letting others do more and more. By that time, I think we will have to discuss an issue with each other anyway, because then the question is whether you should give the AKJ that legal status in this way, if there are apparently other trusted people who are being asked more. I therefore think that we can simply report on an annual basis on the basis of AKJ. We can still give a picture in this report, in the vein of: would there be many other trusted people active? Then you can keep an overview of what is coming in every year of requests towards our trusted persons. Again, should the demand for AKJ fall very much, we have a very different issue to discuss with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-12.u13	That last suggestion, to see if we can at least find a way to know if there are a lot of other providers of trust work, I like it. I would therefore like to withdraw my motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-12.u14	This spirit of compromise is very special, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-12.u15	We rarely experience that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-12.u16	Certainly, but also two questions from Mrs Bergkamp. One question is: when can we as a Chamber hear the outcome of the discussion about the bulletin board in relation to freedom of choice and how does the UWV want to deal with it? It must succeed in letting you know within a month, in the form of a letter to your Chamber, your committee. Then there is the question of pricing. It's just being indexed. Last year it was on 1 January and this year it will be on 1 July, on the date that everything will pass. So the indexing just happens. Then the Christmas motion in part No. 10. It has indeed been formulated rather carefully. Mr Kerstens actually felt the same way. I can only say that I agree with that view, albeit that I will have to have contact with Mr Van Ark in the implementation of it, because this is also very much about the field of work. But I think it is very close to the dispute we had in the first term. For that reason, I would like to pass the judgment on to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-12.u17	That is a happy end to a long debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-12.u18	It's beautiful, isn't it? Really nice. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for your leadership.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-12.u19	Always. I'll see if the deaf interpreter's here, but it's gone by now. Otherwise, we could have thanked them. I would certainly like to thank the Minister for his presence today at both the VAOs and this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-07-tweedekamer-12.u20	On Tuesday we shall vote on the law, on the amendment and on the Christmas motion. I'm gonna suspend for a few moments and then we're gonna talk about the VAO Nature.
