ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-4.u1	The next item is the VSO European Council of 21 and 22 March 2019 (21501-20, no. 1417). I welcome the Minister of Defence and give the floor to Mr Verhoeven as the first speaker. Good morning, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the opportunity of this planned debate to table another motion and also thank you to the colleagues who made this possible; it was a little unusual, but it had to be. Last night was of course a fierce evening, but this morning the Prime Minister is already on his way to the European Council to talk about the Brexit. There is a lot going on in the Netherlands in the political field, but so is the United Kingdom. In any case, as the Netherlands, we have a responsibility to ensure that our role in the Council is such that the outcome is as good, as controlled and as positive as possible for our country, for our citizens and for our economy. That is why we are tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the British voted against the May deal, voted against a no-dealbrexit and voted for postponement;]] [[whereas the British Prime Minister is asking the European Council for a postponement;]] [[Whereas situations are conceivable where a generous postponement can help the British to leave the EU under control or possibly stay with the EU;]] [[calls on the Government to open up the option of a long delay to the upcoming European Council without unduly restrictive conditions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Verhoeven, Mr Omtzigt and Mr Leijten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1419]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-4.u3	This motion has been co-signed by Mr Omtzigt and just at the very last moment, but that is a common thread in recent times by Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mrs. Leijten. That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-4.u5	That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-4.u6	Thank you, Mr Verhoeven. I now give the floor to Mrs Leijten on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-4.u7	Speaker. The SP has always said that we have to accept the outcome of the brexirefementum. Democracy is listening to the voice of the people. We warned that the divorce would lead to a divorce. It has been explicitly the choice of the EU-27 to first separate and then talk about the future relationship. And as a result, we are now in the crippling situation that the withdrawal agreement is not accepted because it contains the possibility of that backstop. I have argued in favour of using the postponement to explore precisely that future relationship, which means that you will no longer need that backstop and therefore get such a withdrawal agreement through the House of Commons. I didn't get a response from the Prime Minister; he's in the car now. I hope, however, that if this motion is adopted, which I have signed because I have already tabled a motion to allow for a generous postponement, that is indeed a red line in our position. If it is then, time is actually being used instead of using that postponement again for that ping-pong. It is either the United Kingdom or the EU-27. Then just go around the table like grown-up politicians and get out of it, because this doesn't look like it, I tell the Minister, this politically high game that could end up in a huge drama, a brexident, as I heard it the other day. I hope it doesn't come to that, but I actually think it's the failure of political leaders in Europe that they don't seem to come out of this in a normal, normal way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-4.u8	Thank you very much, Mrs Leijten. I now give the floor to Mr Omtzigt on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-4.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was just reading the cabinet's answers, because reading 35 pages in 15 minutes takes some effort. I see that, especially for the export of live animals, none of the 80 vets to be employed at NVWA are yet available. I am very concerned about that, but I will come back to that later. Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. I have, of course, signed Mr Verhoeven's motion. I hope we get out with the Brexit. Mr Mulder and I went to the Irish/Northern Irish border yesterday and will report on this as soon as possible, also because it gives rise to serious concerns. Mr. Chairman. Two cases. The first concerns the fact that we do not yet have the calculations of Italy in public. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Commission has so far refused to publish the memo of 14 February, in which it gives the calculations on the basis of which Italy's budget has been approved;]] [[invites the Government to formally request the European Commission, with reference to Article 4 (3) of the EU Treaty, to publish this document immediately and to send a copy of the letter and the reply to the Chamber,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt and Mr Verhoeven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1420]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-4.u10	Mr President, then there is a second problem, and that is the WW. A compromise was reached on this subject, with all 26 MEPs in the Netherlands voting against. And there's reason for that. That is why I want the government to clarify quickly what can be done and what effects that has. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Union is on the verge of giving entitlement to an exportable Dutch WW benefit, contrary to the wishes of the Netherlands, after one month, in which this WW is also based on working periods in other EU countries where this WW can still be exported;]] [[noting that it will therefore be possible for a worker to have paid a WW grant in the Netherlands after one month's work and one month's pay in the Netherlands, in the Netherlands, to be entitled to six months' Dutch WW payment at that Dutch level in the home country;]] [[calls on the Dutch Government to inform the Chamber as a matter of urgency how this proposal can be blocked as it is de facto a substantial harmonisation of social security;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Court of Justice within one month of the exact consequences of these measures (in incremental effect and benefits) if this measure were to continue,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1421]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-4.u11	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Anne Mulder on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-4.u12	Mr President, thank you. The summit that starts this afternoon will be dominated by Brexit. I have one question about that. And I hope that the Minister of Defence, who, of course, follows the Brexit from minute to minute, will be able to answer that, just like we in the European Affairs Committee. That's about the next thing. Yesterday, the Prime Minister of Great Britain, Mrs May, proposed to the European Council, Mr Tusk, that Brexit should be postponed. We have had written consultations on this. The cabinet says the council should study this. My question now is whether the cabinet already knows what it thinks of Mrs May's proposal. I can imagine that there are all kinds of hooks and eyes on the proposal, but I am not going to tell the Minister. I am particularly interested in her opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-4.u13	Thank you, Mr. Anne Mulder. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Van der Graaf on behalf of the Christian Union. For Mrs Van der Graaf, is this the last debate today?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-4.u14	I do believe that this will be my final contribution to the House for the time being. I do have a committee debate this afternoon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-4.u15	She'll be back, thank God.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-4.u16	Yeah, thank God. Mr President, thank you for the floor on this day in particular. Indeed, the summit will be mainly in the context of the Brexit. That's what we expect. I agree with the question that has just been asked by Mr Mulder as to how the cabinet assesses Mrs May's proposal. In addition, the Christian Union would like to stress that we support the cabinet in supporting the request for postponement. But the Brexit is not the only issue on the agenda of this European Council. I would like to draw attention to this on behalf of the Christian Union, in particular to the human rights situation, in order to ensure that issues such as relations with China are not snowed down. I have asked a number of questions about this in writing and I now have a motion for a resolution on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the human rights situation in China is under pressure and there is repression of Uighurs and Christians;]] [[calls on the government to draw attention to the human rights situation at the EU-China Summit, in particular the freedom of religion and belief and the position of Uighurs and Christians,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van der Graaf and Mr Omtzigt. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-20-1422]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-4.u17	Thank you, Mrs Van der Graaf. I think the Minister needs a short suspension. About five minutes? Yeah? Then I'll suspend the meeting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-4.u18	I'll give the Secretary of Defense the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-4.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As a number of Members of Parliament have said, I am replacing the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I, like Mr Omtzigt and a number of others, have not yet read all the letters of what you asked for and what has been answered; I would just like to say in advance. I will address the points raised by the Chamber, because it is indeed very relevant, as Mr Verhoeven said, to be able to give a number of things in the direction of our Prime Minister, who is on his way to Brussels. Mr Verhoeven rightly said that it may be a bit of an unusual way, but it is important enough to do so. In the end, it is also your responsibility to give a number of things from the Chamber in the direction of the Prime Minister. The meetings and the subjects on the agenda are important enough. That leads me to discuss the motions. First of all, I come to the motion on part No. 1419 by Mr Verhoeven, who ultimately requests some space. Mrs Leijten has said a few things about this. I have to say that this is the Verhoeven and others motion, because it has also been signed by Mr Omtzigt and Mrs Leijten. I'd like to leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. Indeed, the European Council is meeting today under Article 50. They will, of course, examine and discuss Mrs May's request with attention. We have to wait for that discussion. I will answer Mr Mulder's question in this way. But we have sympathy for your desire to keep the option of longer delay open. We then avoid a no-dealbrexit, and that is also in Dutch interest. But we also need to be realistic. What is now on the table is a request for an extension until 30 June. I would like to say this once again, also in the direction of Mr Verhoeven. If the United Kingdom itself does not ask for further delay, we cannot force the UK to do so. I would also point out that, in the event of a delay beyond 23 May, the United Kingdom should organise elections as an EU Member State. That's a tough condition. If the United Kingdom does not want to comply with this condition, they have said so to date, and they themselves are closing the way for that extension. So we cannot force them, I say in the direction of Mr Verhoeven c.s. But we do agree that it may be useful. In that sense, I would like to leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-4.u20	Do you agree, Mr Verhoeven?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-4.u21	I would like to respond briefly to the Minister and I would like to join her in her reasoning, to reassure her. Last Thursday I was standing here because it seemed a little too much that the cabinet and also we in the Netherlands wanted to rule out the way of a long delay because that might eventually lead to certain other scenarios. And then I thought: the only thing we shouldn't do is anticipate something, but we shouldn't take any road either. This motion is asking very strongly not to rule out the way of further delay. I don't want to go beyond that either, because I know there are a lot of different scenarios.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-4.u22	Clear, Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-4.u23	I have already said that I can leave the ruling on the motion to the Chamber. But I wanted to add that remark. Perhaps now is the best time to answer Mr Mulder's question. Mr. Mulder himself has indicated how we stand now. Prime Minister May asked the EU yesterday to extend the Article 50 deadline. This will be discussed today in the European Council. I was just talking to Mr Verhoeven about it. We're studying the possibilities and we don't rule out anything in that sense. Hence my assessment of the first motion. As we mentioned earlier, we will see whether the request also serves a clear purpose. There must be clear political support for this goal in the United Kingdom. This is important for the assessment by the Netherlands. An important point for us is also that the smooth functioning of EU institutions is guaranteed. The 27 of us will have to assess the request and reach a unanimous decision. These two points are important to us. The cabinet has said it before. I believe that the frameworks within which we assess the request are well known. There is a need for convincing support with a view to a solution. I have just indicated this in the direction of Mr Verhoeven. The duration of the extension shall be proportionate to the purpose of the extension. The smooth functioning of the EU institutions must be ensured. And for the Netherlands, it is also very important to maintain unity in the EU-27. I believe that this position is shared by the other EU Member States. Today's the meeting. The request will be examined, examined and discussed with great attention. We just have to wait and see. I know this is not a debate, but I wanted to give this answer to Mr Mulder's question. Then the motion to part No. 1420 by Mr Omtzigt and Mr Verhoeven on Italy. Mr Omtzigt has spoken about this before. We agree on the substance, but the motion is not helpful at the moment. The request for disclosure is clearly on the retina of the European Commission. It has been produced several times by the Netherlands, including by the Minister of Finance in the Eurogroup of 11 March, as Mr Omtzigt knows as no other. The application was also submitted in writing. The Commission has indicated that it will consider it. In my view, Mr Omtzigt also received the same response to the European PDB request he made. We await that response from the Commission. In our opinion, an additional letter does not add anything to achieving the Dutch commitment. I do not know exactly when Mr Omtzigt made the request for the WOB, but the normal time limit is 15 days by 15 days. We agree, but we don't think this motion adds anything. I would like to qualify the motion as superfluous and would advise against it from there. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 1421 by Mr Omtzigt on social security. The Netherlands is indeed not in favour of adapting the Social Security Coordination Regulation in its present form. I have to say, we haven't got the text yet. An agreement in principle was reached this week in the trialogue between the European Parliament, the Presidency and the Commission. We do not yet know the exact content of the agreement. The force field appears to be unfavourable to the theorem taken by the Netherlands. There does not seem to be a blocking minority at the moment. I would ask you to pass on the information to the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment, Mr Koolmees. The cabinet will pass judgment on the motion to the Chamber. Then I have one more motion, the motion in part number. 1422 by Mrs Van der Graaf, whom I wish from this place on good maternity leave, and Mr Omtzigt. This motion concerns the human rights situation in China. I consider the motion to be a policy support and I can leave it to the Chamber to decide. Calls for respect for human rights must always be an integral part of EU-China policy. Of course, we're not at the table. Tusk and Juncker are at the table. Last Monday, my colleague Mr Blok asked for a new round of EU-China human rights dialogue, preferably before the EU-China Summit. The cabinet will continue to call for a step in this direction. I shall therefore leave this motion to the Chamber. Mr President, I think I have dealt with all the points raised by the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-4.u24	I think so, too. Thank you. Then we have come to the end of this VSO.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-21-tweedekamer-4.u25	We will vote on the motions tabled at the beginning of the afternoon meeting.
