ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u1	The next item is the Act on Temporalisation of the Age of AOW (35223). Once again, I would like to welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u2	I give the floor to Mr Azarkan on behalf of DENK as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u3	Mr President, thank you. In the previous debate, we discussed a great many aspects of the pension agreement. If one thing is clear, then it is that a lot of things still need to be worked out. However, one aspect is very concrete, and that is the legislative proposal we are discussing. Mr. Chairman. The DENK Group naturally supports this proposal and I expect the whole Chamber to do so, but the question for us is, above all, whether this goes far enough. As far as the DENK Group is concerned, that is not the case. The AOW age will be frozen in 2020 and 2021, but then we will go up to 67 in 2024 in three steps and then up further, depending on life expectancy, towards 70 years. I remember very well that on 2 October 2004 300,000 people demonstrated against the antisocial austerity plans of the then Balkenende II cabinet. I also see Mr Koolmees thinking first and now shaking along. He can remember, too. One part of this was the limitation of the VRS, which meant that people had to work longer and longer. The then FNV chairman, Lodewijk de Waal, made a very nasty joke. He said, "We're all gonna have to work together until we're 70." Those 300,000 people didn't take this joke seriously, because that would be an absurdly high age when you can enjoy your retirement. Mr. Chairman. Not much later, fifteen years later, that 70 years is really in sight when life expectancy rises earlier. Given the ever better medical care, this is likely to happen. The DENK Group has always argued that the hysterical increase in the AOW age to 67 years in 2021 should be reversed. That's how we're still in it. As far as DENK is concerned, the retirement age remains at the age of 2018, namely 66 years. On 28 May, a lot of people stood for that. Many others, a large part of the Netherlands, had to overcome all kinds of logistical problems to get to work. Mr. Chairman. I had therefore prepared and tabled an amendment to that effect, but I am honest to say that, after further examination, I would like to withdraw that amendment, because the consequences cannot yet be seen in full by me. That brings me to the end of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u4	The Azarkan amendment (Doc. 7) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u5	Yes, thank you. My speaking time is rapidly deteriorating. That's right, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna keep it shorter than those five minutes anyway. My group will support this proposal, which is the result of the pension agreement and the debate we have had for the rest of this day. That's a temporalization of going to 67 of the AOW age. That happens a few years later. It's going to go to 67 eventually. Afterwards, it will also be linked to the increase in life expectancy. That is important, because we are all getting older and we need to make sure that the AOW remains affordable and we have enough money left for care, education and all the other important things that we as a government have to pay for. Mr. Chairman. I believe that there is a balance between generations in the proposal. Here we are making the reduction in the shorter term for those who are older, who are closer to the AOW age, but at the same time the one-to-one measure, which is one year longer, is no longer a whole year longer work, especially for younger workers and today's young people who are not even working yet. The AOW package is therefore in balance as far as my group is concerned. I think that is a good part of the agreement. Mr. Chairman. It's big money. The cover is found in, among other things, the removal of youth LIV. At the time, on the initiative of my group, however, there are many fathers of that success, the minimum youth wage was raised that was a cover. There's cover measures that I'm gonna let go of, I'll admit. I see Mr Wiersma looking very pathetic. In addition, there is a limitation of the low-income advantage. There is still an evaluation of the effectiveness of what remains there. I'd like a confirmation from the Minister. I also hope to hear about groups for whom this measure is not a step forward. Those may be small groups that are much less in attention than other groups, but it is good if the Minister says something about that, I think. Finally, Mr President. My main point here is that this is all temporary, for people who have not been able to prepare. But what we really need to do is to make sure that people can get their pensions healthy and educated. This calls for investment in sustainable employability. I have already tabled a motion on this in the previous debate, so I will not do so now. However, I would like to quote here the Council of State, which says: "In my opinion, this is something that is often in its infancy. The elaboration of these intentions is essential and success is not guaranteed in advance." And so it is. Lifelong learning has been "leering a lifetime" for far too long, and in practice we are still doing too little to make work less burdensome. Employers have a big job to do in that. I would also like to draw the Minister's attention to this. We are now taking this temporary measure to reduce the AOW to 67, but in the long term we will only be able to shape it in a good way if we are finally going to invest seriously in this. This appeal to employers' and employees' organisations is once again my firmest appeal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u6	Thank you, Mr. Van Weyenberg. I now give the floor to Mr Smeulders, on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is an important law, because many people, for example in heavy professions, do not get their pensions in good health. Recent research has shown that 40% of people feel mugged by, or have difficulty with the accelerated increase in the AOW age. It is therefore very good in the view of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance that this pension agreement is now a step in the right direction. This bill allows almost 1 million people to stop working more than 955,000 people, most of them eight months. That's a big deal. We also deal with laws that have less impact than these. As GroenLinks, we very much welcome the fact that peace is now being offered in order to reach agreements at sectoral level. We want everyone in the Netherlands to be able to reach their AOW age in good health. We see this as a first step, as has already been said by previous speakers. In fact, the pension agreement also agreed that there would be a legislative proposal for heavy-duty professions, and that the one-to-one link with life expectancy would be adjusted. My first question to the Minister is this: when can we expect this bill? We'd like to make haste with that. Then I have a few more questions about the finances. Our financial spokesman Bart Snels just got home, but he'll be proud to have me ask these questions. There is still some work to be done. For example, EUR 234 million will be released in 2020 and 2021, as the measures under the pension agreement will only start later. That is the abolition of the average systematism. How many years has money been earmarked for the abolition of the average systematic system? And does that end date also move two years? Is there, therefore, the same amount of money available for this in the future? EUR 1.5 billion is occasionally covered from the general budget. The question we have here is whether this is at the expense of the EMU balance or whether it leads to a task for other ministries. My final question concerns the 3 billion to be covered by tax measures, half of which are for citizens and half for businesses. I actually thought that was a pretty special cover, to read like that. Could the Minister perhaps be more specific about that? Can he also promise that this should not be at the expense of the lowest incomes? 'Cause they're hard enough already. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u8	Thank you, Mr. Smeulders. I now give the floor to Mr Stoffer, on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u9	Mr. Chairman. I've almost got a clock on it today, so I'll be brief now. We have already said a lot about the pension agreement today. That was mainly about the broad agreement, with all its parts. Fortunately, one part of the agreement has already been worked out in concrete terms; how quickly do you want it? That is also a very important part, namely the AOW age. Let me be clear: the SGP is pleased that the increase in the AOW age is being timed. For many, this really offers a solution, especially in the short term. We also welcome the fact that the cabinet is committed to the sustainable employability of workers, for example by promoting lifelong development and providing sector-specific tailor-made work for certain groups of workers. It is very good that the cabinet has an eye for the workers who, despite this legislative proposal, may still be in trouble. For although the increase in the AOW age is less rapid, this AOW age will continue to rise in the coming years. The SGP considers it very important that this does not affect groups between shore and ship. Mr. Chairman. The costs for the temporalisation of the AOW age are high. Over the next five years alone, it will cost more than EUR 5 billion. That's just a huge amount of money. It is important that the coverage is properly arranged. The explanatory statement states that there will be 100 million burdens for citizens per year and 100 million for businesses as well. In five years' time, that is about EUR 1 billion. That is a significant part of the more than 5 billion I have just spoken about. My question to the Minister is whether he can go a little bit more into the details of this burden increase. What are citizens and businesses actually going to notice of this increase in charges? So far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u10	Thank you, Mr. Stoffer. I now give the floor to Mr Van Kent on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Many people are already not getting the 66 in good health. This is evident from the influx into disability benefits and from the increase in absenteeism among the over 60s. We've discussed this before. Now there is a bill for 66 years in the sense that 66 is going to be 66 years and 4 months. We know that the age will then continue to rise in accordance with the agreements made in the agreement. In that respect, this is not a good legislative proposal. We can see that it is a slight improvement on the current situation, albeit a very slight improvement, a very small mouse step. Anyway, we're gonna have to live with that. We also see that a small group of people are at risk of falling between shore and ship. We've been asking questions about that. That is the group that now has a wage-related benefit, a last-earned benefit. This group sees that the AOW date is brought forward, which can create a period of spectacular income decline. I would like to ask the Minister if he is prepared to meet individuals in obvious distressing cases, so to resolve this problem. In the past, the OBR has been created for this purpose. We know that these kinds of border cases can result in people, for example, really missing two thirds of their income for six months. So I would like to get the promise that there will be a concession for the obvious poignant cases, for example from the OBR or I don't care which game or scheme. We are very enthusiastic about the way in which this bill is covered. This will pave the way for us to make all possible proposals with similar coverage. Then you can just write it down: we're going to pay it out of general funds or we're going to pay it out of the tax increase for companies and people. I agree with the question raised by GroenLinks. What's that gonna look like? Which people are gonna pay what? I will be tabling a motion in the second term, but I can do so now too, in order to bring the age of AOW back to 65. In doing so, I will showcase the same creativity as was used in the coverage for this proposal. Then I have another question that relates to the debate on the AOW age that I had earlier today with Mr Asscher. My question is about the moment 2020. As I understand it, life expectancy will be looked at in 2020. If this life expectancy has increased, it is decided in 2020 that the AOW age will be increased by 2025. In 2025, therefore, the age will be higher than the 67 years it ended on in 2024. The Ministry's table states that age remains 67 in 2025, 2026 and 2027. This led to a misunderstanding: would the AOW age stand at 68 or not for someone who is now 51? If the table published by the Minister is correct, I would like the commitment that it will not be decided by 2020 that that age will rise. I don't see the Minister looking very well. I'll rephrase it. According to the table, the age until 2027 is at least 67 and will not increase on the basis of life expectancy forecasts that will follow in 2020. Because if it is, all the calculation tools that are being used and the sheet that the ministry has published are misleading, in the sense that based on that people expect to get their AOW on 67, but in six months you will be told: you have had bad luck, you are allowed to go through a few months longer. Mr President, as I said, I will table a motion on the AOW age in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u12	Thank you, Mr. Van Kent. I now give the floor to Mr Edgar Mulder on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u13	Mr. Chairman. This AOW legislative proposal is part of a larger agreement, an agreement that makes the pension uncertain, allows more discounts and does not cover 60 billion. It is very simple: the PVV will vote against every part of this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u14	Thank you, Mr. Edgar Mulder. I now give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have had the whole debate this evening, so I will also be brief. Like Mr Stoffer, I was standing here at 11:15 this morning, so we're making a good round of clockwork, but this is an important law. It is a law that will affect a lot of people in the Netherlands who suffer from that much too fast rising AOW age. It is good that social partners, cabinet and many political parties in this Chamber are trying to make up for the mistakes of the past. When the PvdA presented its own AOW plan a year ago, we also said that in the past we have contributed to a much too rapid increase. It is therefore a good thing that for a lot of people who are suffering from this rapidly rising age, we are freezing that age for two years now and then increasing it more slowly. The bill before us tonight does not yet contain the age link, which is also an important part of the agreement. A year longer life means a year longer work, but that goes to eight months. Mr Van Weyenberg said that this is important for the younger generations who saw that retirement age rise. The AOW legislative proposal is balanced for all generations with these two elements. Mr. Chairman. I have two questions. We foresee a problem for the people who have raised their pension and are just before the age of AOW. So they're actually already in a pension setting. The AOW age is frozen for a short time, which causes these people to receive higher benefits. But with that, they're colliding with the Pension Act. Once that benefit has been established, it is difficult to adjust the benefit again. Is the Minister prepared to explore with pension funds and implementation organisations whether this really is a problem and, if so, whether it is possible to restore it for these people? We're doing something good, but for these people, it can't work. Then my second and final question. It's about cover. Part of the LIV is used, among other things. From the trade union movement there has been a lot of comment on LIV, because it would have the wrong effects. We still think that a form of low-income advantage can help, especially in times when it is not economical and you want to keep people at work instead of being sidelined. How will the Minister provide for this? I understand he wants to go to another kind of instrument. We think it is important that the instrument be preserved, just for times when things are not going so well in the Netherlands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u16	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Wiersma on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u17	Mr President, thank you. Mr Klaver made an attempt in the previous debate to hide the fact that I was once active for the FNV. I'd like to fix that. He has put a different name on me, but here is really the only former chairman of FNV Jong. My first day of work, I remember very well. It was May 2, 2011. My contract said May 1st, but that's a holiday. 2 May lasted until 6.30 p.m. the next morning and that was about the pension agreement. There were all kinds of then leading players of the FNV. Mrs. Van Brenk hasn't yet. Pretty soon, she's been daring to get in on it. That's what worked. That was the first victim, Edith Snoey. That pension agreement then did a lot of work, created a lot of wounds, and actually brought no solutions, just a lot of political discussion. How wonderful is it that we are now able to settle this political discussion together with all of us and to put sustainable and future-proof solutions to it! That's the lead. Solidarity is something that applies to young and old. That is in the proposal that we are discussing here today. That is what my group supports. Mr. Chairman. I do, however, have two specific points on which I would like to ask the Minister a question and a question. The first part is about the cover. It has already been mentioned: the youth LIV, low income benefit. That is also mentioned in the text. The Minister says that he will look with the employers to see if the whole set of instruments in the Compensation and Pays Act can come to a first more effective interpretation. I wonder how the Minister sees that. What's that look like? When are we gonna hear about that? When is that supposed to lead to something? Can he give a little more coloration to what's in the text? Mr. Chairman. The second question concerns what Mr Van Weyenberg rightly referred to as sustainable employability. The Council of State is sober about that, and perhaps partly cynical. The Council concludes that a great deal has been expressed in the past in order to improve sustainable employability, and that "it is evidently not possible that the older workers of today have reached the age of AOW in good health." That's sober, but also partly cynical. The Board also makes recommendations. In particular, he says that these ambitions may still be in their infancy. On what basis, the Council asks, can we actually assume that these intentions are now leading to an effective approach? That would also be my question to the Minister. On what basis can we assume that? The Council of State also says: perhaps it would be good if the role of the government could be "mandatory in nature" if necessary. Can the Minister give a little more colour to how he thinks the Council of State means, and how he intends to implement it in the coming period? Finally, Mr President. Longer working is not something that is stimulated everywhere. There are also collective agreements in which there are still agreements that make this difficult. Last week we had a round table in which this was discussed and in which Mrs Van Brenk herself brought it up. So that's a concern. The question is: can the Minister discuss the agreements made in sectors and collective agreements on this issue in the context of sustainable employability and ask the social partners if they are prepared to take further steps there? Mr President, those are the points that my group wanted to make. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u18	Thank you, Mr. Wiersma. I now give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u19	Mr. Chairman. In 1913 a scheme was introduced whereby all disabled persons received a free national allowance. Why do I bring that fact into this debate? That's why: all the disabled were people 70 years of age or older. Anyone who turned 70 was supposed to be disabled. We're talking 1913, a century ago. Half a century later, Drees came with his AOW. In 1947 he introduced it. Ten years later, another minister established it, with the age 65. Since that time, since the existence of the AOW, 60 years later, we see that we are all getting five years older on average and that we can stay healthy for longer longer. What a blessing, looking back on a century of old age schemes. At 70 you were disabled, and now we're thinking about how you can stay healthy for as long as possible. I think it is very nice to note this here and also to see that we are now going to moderate the huge increase in the AOW age that was introduced by the previous cabinet in 2015-2016. That's when it went up really fast. It is a good step, which supports the Christian Union. I just have one question. It's quite an emergency thing, I say to the Minister. Are all risks under control, when they are introduced, but above all when they are implemented? Are the risks under control, is this monitored and does the Minister have sufficient instruments in his hands to adjust when something would go wrong? I'd like that assurance. For the rest, we support this. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u20	Thank you, Mr. Bruins. I now give the floor to Mr Slootweg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to join everyone who says that this has become a sort of courageous agreement between polder and all political parties. We are now here to repair an important gap from the initial increase in the AOW age. Today we urgently arrange for the AOW to be frozen for the first two years and then gradually rise. That is very welcome, because unfortunately there was no transitional arrangement for people with a heavy occupation. As a result, many people are worried about how to survive until retirement. I have three questions. In the document, the Minister himself states that there are also a number of groups affected by this increase. One of the groups mentioned is the group that has to take off age, but would like to work longer. I think that, given the current tight labour market, we should welcome the fact that people want to use their talents. Can the Minister not ensure that I do not know whether it should be by law or whether it is otherwise possible for people to be more stimulated, for blockades to be lifted and for people to continue to work? The second group that I mention and which is somewhat in line with the previous group is the group of people who currently have an invalidity pension with an insurer, where the agreement is that that pension will cease when they receive AOW. I don't know exactly how big this group is. I think it is now the case that if that pension is higher than the AOW and it stops and one receives AOW, then one receives a lower income. Is this true? Is it true that the insurer is actually the laughing third party, who does not have to pay out afterwards? How righteous does the Minister think that is? I agree with the question put by Mr Smeulders and Mr Stoffer as to what the burden is. I hope that more clarification can be given. Can the link also be addressed? It was asked here and there whether it was true that the new two-thirds link instead of one-on-one would have to pay the younger generation a higher burden. I don't quite see that, because I think they'll get AOW sooner. But perhaps the Minister can indicate that it is not the case that this measure places the burden on young people disproportionately. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u22	Thank you, Mr. Slootweg. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With disappointment and a little reluctance I stand in this ultimate "with steam and boiling water" debate. But whoever doesn't honor the little one isn't the big one. And for a really serious reduction in the AOW age, we need a different election result. But freezing for two years is something. And in the meantime, we have elections and the AOW age can just sit in the freezer. After all, delays often occur. Mr. Chairman. They are small steps, but at least they are steps in the right direction. But you can understand that we are concerned about the fall-out of older workers, as we have said before; it has just been mentioned. We are seeing an increase in the number of people who become disabled and who do not reach the age of AOW at all. I understand that the Minister will take a measure to stop working earlier, and that is good, but that measure is not generic. If that were the case, 50PLUS would have been enthusiastic, because now it depends on the employers' wallet. And look, I'm already getting a little less excited, especially when I hear Mr De Boer from VNO-NCW at the presentation saying that it really depends on the economic circumstances. That already sounds like a profit warning. We already see employers barely pulling their wallets for a raise. Are they going to put money into outgoing workers? Three years €19,000, €57,000, a lot of money to invest. I would like to hear how the Minister has confidence in this measure. We became most enthusiastic about another element, although it was only a very short part: after 45 years of work we can stop working and then AOW and retire. Look, that sounds good. There's gonna be an investigation. This is certainly good news for people with a heavy occupation, because they start working very early. But how realistic is this? Or were we made happy for the stage with a dead sparrow to spawn the critical sounds from the supporters of the union? How seriously does this minister take this study and assignment? For 50PLUS, faith would be much more if the freezing of the AOW age had been frozen until the moment the research was completed and implemented. Is the Minister really going to do everything in his power to make this a success? Does he believe in it himself? You hear the suspicion in my voice, don't you? I doubt this is really realistic, so I'd like to be convinced. Now is also the time to make another point and we are looking forward to it. We read in the newspaper that this government intends to remove the possibility of continuing to work from the civil servants' collective agreement after retirement. Is this true? Why? We would like people to have the freedom and the opportunity to continue working. We get letters and e-mails from people who want to keep working, but have to stop from their employer. I admit that these are not all heavy professions. Journalists, judges, they'd like to have the opportunity to continue working. Has it been considered to prohibit or otherwise limit the obligation to stop working from reaching the AOW age arising from various collective agreements? People who are healthy and who want to work longer; we would not want to create obstacles here as far as 50PLUS is concerned. Does the Minister want to reflect on this? Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, we have missed the input of the report. I have four questions about this which have not been asked by other colleagues. I'd like to hand them over to the minister after that. It may also be written. It doesn't necessarily have to be all tonight. They're kind of tricky questions. How many persons are expected to receive AOW earlier than would have been the case without this bill between 1 January 2020 and 1 January 2025? What are the birth years of the target group that are given a lower AOW age according to Table 1? With what motivation are people born after the birth years of the target group excluded from the reduction in the AOW age? Have working conditions in the Netherlands improved significantly at that time? Is the life expectancy of the target group significantly lower than that of those born one or a few years later? Can you make that quantitatively understandable? Can you also indicate how many people are obliged to stop working on the basis of collective agreements per year, while they would prefer to work longer? And on the basis of two or more scenarios, can you explain how a reduction in life expectancy can be reflected in the AOW age from 2020 following the introduction of this bill? Mr. Chairman. We give everyone the space to enjoy a good old age with enough healthy years for all generations. That is why we find it hard for our grandchildren to work towards their 70th birthday. That is why we are eagerly looking forward to the results of the study in order to be able to stop working after 45 years and see these improvements as a first step, but it must and can be much better, only not under this cabinet in this composition. That's obvious. Mr. Chairman. 66 is good, but 65 is better.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u24	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. That also brings us to the end of the first term of office. The Minister needs a suspension of about ten minutes. Then I'll suspend the meeting for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u25	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm not gonna make long introductions. I have five cubes: AOW measures, coupling, costs, cover and other. I'll start with the AOW measure. Mr Van Weyenberg asked: for which groups is this bill not progressing? I also answered that question in the written set that was sent this morning, and also in the direction of Mrs Van Brenk. Between 2020 and 2024 approximately 180,000 to 200,000 people per year reach the AOW age earlier, leading to an income change. About 55% of the people affected by this change, or about 100,000 people per year, work prior to reaching the AOW age. If people had wanted to continue working up to the higher AOW age, for example because they have a pension shortage, but are now forced by the lower AOW age to quit their current job earlier, there is a loss of income. In the case of a wage-related benefit, the benefit is usually above the level of the AOW benefit. Then it's about the WW or the WIA, for example. The reduction in the AOW age would result in a lower income from the AOW age. This may be the case with the WIA, WW and WAO, for example. In the case of assistance, the AOW benefit is, on the contrary, higher than the benefit. Mr Van Kent asked: are you going to compensate for obvious poignant cases that have adverse effects on the temporalisation of the increase in the AOW age? No. The reason why we are now striving for a reasonable transitional period of six months, which is why the procedure in this Chamber must also take place as a matter of urgency, is precisely to have a period until entry into force and publication, so that people have clarity in advance. This also has to do with the proportionality of the measure. We have also stated in the explanatory memorandum that the transitional period does not lead to disproportionate individual burdens which would have to be offset in the light of Article 1 of the first Protocol of the ECHR. For this reason, no further compensation is necessary, also in view of the limited income effects, preparation time and temporary effects. Moreover, it would also be impossible to set up the compensation scheme in a timely manner in order to compensate the very different groups concerned. Mr Slootweg asked: is it true that the disadvantage would be even greater if the AOW age were to be frozen further at 66? In general, the AOW benefit is therefore higher than the social minimum benefits, but in most cases it is lower than the wage-related benefits such as the WW and the WIA. There's a very large spread in the level of those pay-related benefits. The file is just very diverse. There may also be supplementary pensions, which also means that there is a large spread. So the exact consequences are really different per person; we cannot make a general statement about this. However, if the AOW age were 66 years in 2020 and 2021 instead of 66 years and 4 months, people with a wage-related benefit would get AOW even earlier, making the income gap more negative for them. We tried to describe it quantitatively, but it remains very complicated. It's also the time. It's four months from now. It would actually be 66 years and 8 months by 2020, and it's now 66 years and 4 months. Isn't it especially in favour of the elderly when the AOW age is temporarily frozen? In my view, it has also been clearly stated in the first period that, precisely when it comes to the AOW, a very balanced package has been drawn up. It is about time-consuming growth in the short term, but also about the structural adjustment of the one-to-one link, which is in the interests of young people and is also largely covered by the higher employment rate we see in the economy. I therefore believe that this package is balanced across generations. I'm moving to block two, linking the AOW to life expectancy. Mr Smeulders asked: when will this bill come? I just said that. In the autumn of 2019 I will inform the Chamber about the roadmap, the elaboration of the main lines. We are talking about various changes to the regulations, for example the interconnection system of the AOW, but also the legal and fiscal frameworks for the occupational pension scheme, which, of course, also comes from the two-pillar system and the voluntary retirement provision in the third pillar. As of 2022, the Cabinet has the ambition to have a legal framework in place to enable the social partners to prepare the occupational pension for the requirements of the 21st century. That's what the broader discussion we talked about tonight is in there. Mr Van Kent asked, also in relation to the table on which Mr Asscher and Mr Van Kent had a discussion this evening: what does the new system of coupling look like and how does it work technically? The starting point for the new link, which comes not with the current but with the later bill, is the 67 years in 2024, where this bill lands, to say the domestic, and the remaining life expectancy of 65-year-olds in 2024. So the new coupling will start in 2025. In the agreement in principle, it was agreed that if this life expectancy increases by 12 months compared to the 20.63 years, what is the remaining life expectancy that the CBS estimates for someone aged 65 years in 2024, can you still follow? The AOW age then increases by eight months instead of one year. That will then be a different link than is in the current law. The table referred to by Mr Van Kent of the 48-year-old versus the 51-year-old is based on the current life expectancy of the CBS. Indeed, we are announcing 2025 at the end of this year, five years ahead. All years thereafter are based on an estimate of the evolution of life expectancy. Those aren't hard numbers. They are estimates, because from 2025 onwards we are going to link it in a different way to the increase in life expectancy. There is a prognosis of the CBS. That is an indication, but in fact one more year is formally adopted each year. 2025 will be formally adopted at the end of this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u27	This means that on 1 January 2020 it may be announced that by 2025 the AOW age will increase compared to the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u28	Well, technically, that's possible. I'll take a look. Then there must be some very crazy things going on. The estimate we have now runs to 2027 or 2028. It's gonna stay on there. Yeah, there's nodding. This is based on the current life expectancy figures of the CBS. But I do have to say that they can suddenly get away with it. We have also seen the downward movement in recent years. Two heavy flu waves led to the AOW age being 67 years and 3 months in 2022, 2023 and 2024 in the old system. But it's very unlikely. Then cover. Mr Van Weyenberg asks whether I can confirm that there is still an impact measurement for the remainder of the LIV. Yes, the effect of LIV, the low income advantage on employment, is being examined by SEO. That evaluation is still ongoing. As a result, Mr Gijs van Dijk asked what I would do if things were to go down economically and LIV could be useful again. That's why we have SEO investigate that effectiveness. The final results will be announced before the end of this year. I'm going to inform the Chamber about the results. Mr Wiersma asked the following in this context. The pension letter states that employers are developing proposals for more effective use of the remaining budget within the Income Benefits Act, which includes LIV, LKV and Youth LIV. Youth LIV will be abolished in this coverage. The high rate will be halved. The others remain and the remainder of the LIV also remains. During the negotiations on the pension agreement, employers themselves indicated that they wanted to work together with the cabinet to achieve more effective implementation. There is also a thought about this among employers. We didn't exactly negotiate them out in those nightly sessions, but they come up with a proposal on that. I would like to talk to the employers about this, because if it can be done better and better meets the wishes of the employers and is therefore more effective, I am always in favour of it. As soon as the contours are clearer, I'll inform the Chamber. I'm not ready for that right now. Mr Smeulders, Mr Stoffer and Mr Slootweg have asked a question about the charge section. The fact that the AOW is being increased less quickly has an effect on the expenditure side of the budget, namely additional AOW expenditure, but also on the burden side has an effect, because you previously have AOW. That also costs money, because people rather pay the low rate, even domestically said. That is indeed 200 million for those 15 years that we have now used as a cover period for this law. In addition to aligning the second and third pillars, there is also a tax pillar in the overall package of the pension agreement, which we are going to complete in the August decision-making process for the Millions Note. So we are talking about 100 million for employers and 100 million for employees in 15 years. That is also the division between the parties at the table, let us say. The decision on such a measure will, of course, also take into account the impact on purchasing power. Mr Smeulders also asked how many years have been allocated. Two 234 million will be released in the 2020-2021 cover for the reservation for the abolition of the average systematiek. And we have reserved a tax facility for the transition period for abolishing the average. I indicated earlier this evening that it could last five to ten years. This is also part of the detailed work, so it is one of the issues the steering committee is going to address. It is clear that this tax facility needs to be there to make it fiscally possible. We had already entered into the government agreement in 2020, because we were actually under the assumption that we would have a pension agreement by the beginning of 2018. That turned out to be a little late. That's why it's moving. Mr Smeulders further asked about the 1.5 billion from the general budget. So that's 15 years of 100 million from the general budget. There is no mandate in the other ministries; it is room available under the expenditure ceiling of the Minister of Finance. That's what the Cabinet agreed. So it is not a new task, it comes from total expenditure frameworks. I come to a portion of "other." Mr Van Weyenberg and Mr Wiersma asked about sustainable employability. They mentioned an appeal to employers and workers to make real investments in sustainable employability. I very much agree with this call. You can really see we're dealing with a cultural change. This applies to sustainable employability, lifelong development or lifelong learning. Both aspects have been discussed for a long time, but little concrete work has yet been done. At the same time, there have been major developments in the age of exit over the last 15 years. Where around 2000, i.e. before the abolition of the old age pension or pre-pension, the average retirement age was 59, it is now almost 65. And there really still has to be a cultural change in the workplace for employers and employees, hence the kick-start and hence, together with Mrs Van Engelshoven, to develop a lifelong focus. I very much agree with the call that we really need to move forward in order to anchor this policy in order to avoid getting behind the facts every time. Mr Slootweg said that in collective agreements the functional age dismissal still existed and asked what we could do to allow people to work part-time after the AOW. Cao's are, of course, agreements between unions and employers. If a collective agreement lays down that a contract ends at the age of AOW and a worker wishes to continue working, he can report to his employer for consultation on a new contract. In the past, barriers to post-AOW work have been removed. They were, for example, about pay-as-you-go payments in case of illness and about the transition fee. In practice, these were often obstacles for employers to say to those people that they were allowed to continue working. We got rid of them. There are therefore no legal obstacles to continuing work. The AOW doesn't resist that either, because that's just possible. There is no right to continue working. We did have that discussion a few years ago, even in this Chamber. I remember that from when I was a spokesperson. It is therefore up to the social partners and individual employers and employees to make good agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u29	I do not want to make it late or long, but I still have one comment. We've got six months left. I think the Minister will be in regular contact with employers and unions. I think it could be a little bit more, that there might just be a little more incentive to ensure that it is agreed that the group that could get less income from this measure can continue to work up to that age. Then it may not be a right, but it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u30	I'm just thinking if I can make that happen, I say in all honesty, and whether central employers' and employees' parties are also... Can I come back to this in the second term? I need to think about this before I say anything too easy. Mr Gijs van Dijk of the PvdA asked: what can the Minister do for people who have already raised their pension and for whom the benefit has been set? Don't they come into conflict with the Pension Act now? Old age pension does not need to be adjusted at a time when the AOW age for certain groups is earlier than expected. I don't expect any trouble with this. If they occur, we'll solve them in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u31	That's good to hear from the Minister. I do hear concerns about this from different implementation organisations. It is therefore a good thing that the Minister has this on the retina and wants to examine this as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u32	Would you pass those signals on to me, please? What kind of organizations are we talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u33	For APG, or the metal funds.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u34	Okay. I like to be recommended. Mr Slootweg's question and also Mr Wiersma's question on functional age dismissal was somewhat strange. The question was whether we could work longer despite passing the AOW age and whether we could not stimulate it. I have just indicated to Mr Slootweg that these obstacles have been removed. I also see more and more examples, including within my own ministry, of people who simply continue working after the age of AOW, especially given the tight labour market and the fact that people in good health want to be active longer and longer. I'd be happy to bring that to their attention. So there are really good examples of sectors and employers who already like to use them and who are actually using them as a kind of labour market tool, I would almost say. That is certainly true at this time of tightness. But the law isn't there. So that remains a fundamental discussion. Will the Minister impose mandatory measures for sustainable employability if necessary? That's what Mr Wiersma asked. In the second half of this year, I want to fill in the programme on sustainable employability and the 800 million more concrete. I shall also fill in the motions for resolutions which I have given to the House and which you are going to vote on tomorrow, or on Tuesday. I don't know when you're going to vote on the motions. Yeah, that's Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u35	I would like to comment on the previous point and on what Mr Slootweg just said. The minister says he'll think about how he could do this. I actually think the Chamber is just asking an information question. How's that going? How many sectors is that going well? Where are obstacles? Then we have a better idea of that, so that we can discuss the right to continue working on the basis of facts, if that discussion comes about. I need a little more image and sound. That would also be a good start to a discussion with the sectors, because you have to get that information from them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u36	I don't know if that information is there, but it's an interesting question. Maybe the AWVN has that available. They have that collective agreement monitor, don't they? We're gonna go get some grass dunes and see if those appointments are there. I don't think this is in our collective bargaining monitor. No, it's not in there. But maybe that information is available at the AWVN. I think this is interesting for the employers' side. Mrs Van Brenk has asked all kinds of factual questions. If you don't mind, I'd like to answer it in writing. Some of them have already been answered in writing, as Mr Van Kent has already said. That was about the size of the group from 180,000 to 200,000. I gave the list of questions to official support. Half of them have already been answered. I'd be happy to do the other half in writing. I just can't do that anymore, even physically. Mr Bruins of the Christian Union asked if the risks in the implementation are under control. That is a very fair question. In recent months, we have submitted the bill to the SVB, the UWV and the Tax Administration in secret. The SVB has indicated that the legislative proposal is feasible by 2020, provided that the preparatory work can be started in good time. I have therefore already ordered the SVB to start preparations in early May. It was a small guess of mine or it would work, but it worked out well. The UWV and the Tax Administration have indicated in their implementation advice that implementation is possible provided the proposal is final in time and will be published in early July 2019. The pension funds are expected to have sufficient preparation time by six months. Part of it is also a parameter adjustment. The period of preparation for a six-month period corresponds to the time taken at the time for the increase proposals in recent years. All in all that gives comfort, but of course we keep our finger on the wrist, also in terms of signals such as those from Mr.Gijs van Dijk from other versions. Mrs Van Brenk asked me how seriously I take the research on pensions after 45 years of work. Actually, that's about the letter we were talking about earlier tonight, and about the heavy-duty appeal discussion. I take that very seriously. You may also know the chairman of the CNV. He was still sitting here in the bleachers tonight. That's Mr. Eagle of Vineyards. If I don't take this very seriously, I'm gonna have a really big problem with him. He's really big and he's got a big beard. It's pretty firm. So we take that very seriously. The last question, from Mr Wiersma, but also from Mrs Van Brenk, was about sustainable employability, whether lawyers are doing everything and whether this is finally being taken seriously. That was also a question from Mr Van Weyenberg. Yes, we are doing everything we can to take a step forward in cooperation with employers and employees. The difference now is that we have agreed with the social partners on the linking of the AOW age to life expectancy. I think that's a good thing, too. This also makes it clear that investment in sustainable employability is necessary. Even though the rate of increase in the AOW age is falling, the working life is getting longer. The length of the pension also increases. That is the reality and we must set ourselves in good time. By the way, what I still think is a very good example is the career skills. That is a subsidy scheme that we have opened up for people to think about at the age of 45: can I keep my profession healthy until my retirement age or do I really have to do something else? These were, as far as I could write it down, the first-term questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u37	Thank you. Let us now move on to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg. No? I shall look at Mr Smeulders. Not even? Then I look at Mr Stoffer. No? That's good. But Mr. Van Kent does. I give the floor to Mr Van Kent on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u38	Yes, Mr. Chairman, we're just gonna keep working. I'd already announced a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to reduce the age of AOW to 65 years and to use the same creativity to this end as in this legislative proposal on coverage,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr. Van Kent. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35223-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u39	I also asked some questions about the cover. Is it true that opposition parties can also, on occasion, cover proposals in this way? I am very curious to hear the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u40	Thank you, Mr. Van Kent. Then I'll go to Mr. Gijs van Dijk. No? Mr. Wiersma? No, I didn't. Mr. Bruins. No? Mr. Slootweg. Yes, Mr. Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u41	If you don't mind me doing it like that, at the interrupting microphone? In the second term, the Minister would return to my question. As far as I am concerned, it is also good for him to do so in writing and see what is possible. I don't know if that's a road.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u42	About working longer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u43	Yes, personally, I do not think that collective age dismissal is really any longer of this time. I would like to see how we can use that six months to remove blockades for this group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u44	Thank you. Finally, Mrs Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u45	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. One motion is because I'd really like a freeze until the investigation is complete. That's why this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the Prime Minister called the extreme increase in the AOW age by the second Rutte cabinet hysterical;]] [[calls on the government to reduce the age of AOW to 66 in 2020, in accordance with the terms of the first Rutte cabinet's government agreement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Brenn and Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35223-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u46	Mr. Chairman. It has already been debated with colleagues, but we would really like to see an extension for those who want to continue working. I'm having a whole discussion with a medical reporter. He has a lot of expertise and he would very much like to continue working, but his employer absolutely does not want to cooperate. I think that's a shame. That's why this motion. I hope the Minister will consider how this can be designed. It's really a cry for help. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the explanatory memorandum of the Law on Temporalisation explicitly states that it may be possible to "continue working after the AOW age under the collective agreement only in specific cases";]] [[Whereas, at a time of ageing and labour market shortages, the unilateral pursuit of "rejuvenation" should be structurally challenged;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how compulsory retirement age can be replaced by customisation when reaching the AOW age generically,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35223-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u47	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u48	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. I saw the minister write with me. The third motion is now being copied and distributed. We'll wait a few moments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u49	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u50	Thank you, Madam President. There are three motions. By the motion in part No. 8 by Mr Van Kent, I do not know exactly where I am at with the SP. It was 66, now 65. I hope you'll agree to the bill, but it'll be something else. Here's another 65. Last week I read in the newspaper that 66 was acceptable. But it saves a few billion and I am now, around twelve o'clock, slowly wondering what the position of the SP is. For the rest, I would advise against the motion, you understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u51	The latter is a pity, but I would like to take a long time to answer this question. Thank you for that! Our election program says 65. We've been working together recently with, among other things, the FNV under the flag of securing at 66. We have just tabled, during the debate before this, a motion which was in line with the demands we had in common. That was to freeze at 66, to index for each generation and to retire for everyone. This amendment is in line with our electoral programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u52	This motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u53	This motion. Excuse me. This motion fits with our election program. This is in favour of an AOW age of 65. In other words, this 66 was a compromise for us to be able to move together, including with GroenLinks, the Labour Party and the FNV. If you have any more questions about that, I'd like to hear them, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u54	Is it true that you have tabled two different motions this evening, one in 65 and another in 66?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u55	In any case, it is true that I have tabled two separate motions. One motion saw the compromise that we supported, because it allowed cooperation with the Labour Party, GroenLinks and the FNV. This motion is an expression and implementation of our electoral programme.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u56	I find it confusing, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u57	Any more questions from the Minister to Mr Van Kent?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u58	I don't know...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u59	I think we have been able to compromise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u60	With yourself? Well, I don't think so, because 65 or 66 is still not crystallized.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u61	We've made a compromise on those 66. We've also been sitting at your table seriously to talk about that. Until the last moment, the stakes were: freezing 66, indexing for all generations and a pension for all. We have seen in the previous debate that this has not been the outcome of this consultation and that it has not been included in the agreement either. That was also the reason why we did not support the agreement. This means that we support every step in the direction of those 65. I have been called on to carry out our election programme. That 66 was a big step. The bill you're presenting here is a mouse step. In my opinion, only the PVV does not support the mouse step, but we will support every step in the right direction, even if it is a very small step. So you can sleep in peace tonight. We shall vote in favour of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u62	Good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u63	I thought that the latter was a clear argument in itself. You're not allowed to ask any more questions, are you? I'm gonna dissuade the motion anyway. I hope it's not 64 next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u64	He's doing it anyway! Mr Van Kent went to the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u65	Mr Van Kent, you can no longer ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u66	He's walking back. In the Van Brenk/Azarkan motion on item No. 9 is requested to bring the AOW age back to 66 years. In itself, I think that is a consistent line of Mrs Van Brenk. Or maybe not, because your election program included 65. I'm dissuading the motion. The motion in part No. I must also advise against 10 for the following reason. What I have just promised Mr Wiersma, I am going to do. I'm just gonna see what's going on about the mandatory retirement. The point is, it's already customized. All legal barriers have been removed. It's really about agreements at collective bargaining tables. That's where the arrangements are made. Following questions from Mr Wiersma, I am going to try to find out how many collective agreements that is in and what the considerations are. But the legal barrier has been removed. That's why I don't recommend the motion. Mrs Van Brenk, the spirit of the motion, the theme, is addressed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u67	The minister says it's addressed. When can we get more information as soon as possible? And are you going to push the social partners a little bit?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u68	Yes. It's gonna be after the summer. Oh, yeah. The business there is all done with this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u69	Then I'll withdraw the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u70	Except Mrs. Van Gessel.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u71	Since the Van Brenn motion (No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u72	We will vote on this bill and the motions tabled tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u73	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-19-tweedekamer-11.u74	I would like to thank the Minister very much. I would also like to thank Members of Parliament, stenographers, officials, messengers, clerks and everyone who has followed this debate in one way or another.
