ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-5.u1	The last question is from Mrs Van den Hul on behalf of the PvdA Group. It shall appoint it to the Minister for Defence, who shall replace the Minister for Foreign Trade and Development Cooperation. The question is about the message that at least 29 children died from hypothermia in a camp in Syria. I call Mrs van den Hul.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In recent weeks, at least 29 children have died, including newborn babies. They died in the harsh winter cold in the Al-Hol refugee camp in Syria. According to UNHCR, at the moment 33,000 people are still in acute need in the same camp. It's not the only camp where there's trouble. International organisations also ring the bell in camps such as Ain Issa and Rukban. The conditions are deteriorating by the day and the number of refugees is increasing. They are camps in regions that this cabinet says it is committed to perspective. Camps that fit into a strategy of this cabinet, which says: reception in the region is the ultimate answer to deal with the refugee crisis. Camps where kids are freezing to death right now. My question to the Minister is: did you know that the situation was so serious and have you been in contact with the UNCHR and/or the WHO, the World Health Organisation? Has the cabinet been in contact with international aid organisations, such as the Red Cross? Have you been in contact with EU colleagues or Kurdish authorities to see what can be done to support UNHCR in reception and to obtain full access to the camp from aid organisations? Mr. Chairman. My underlying question is: what about the promised perspective for people in need in the region?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-5.u3	I now give the floor to the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-5.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am indeed taking over Mr Kaag here. I have, of course, also taken note of the article to which Mrs Van den Hul refers. You are quite right that it is a very poignant situation in many places in Syria, including in North-East Syria. Many of the people in the camps are Syrians who of course fled the war and have been displaced many times. There's very heavy winter weather right now. The continuing fights also ensure that Syrians are actually in inhumane conditions. As far as we are concerned, it is unacceptable for children to die because of it. Humanitarian organisations are working very hard to scale up capacity in and around the camps and to ensure that they can provide adequate assistance. But the biggest challenge is now in transport to the camp in Al-Hol. There are people from the Hajin pocket who need to be taken to Al-Hol. That happens in open cars, under very terrible conditions. It is important that the screening procedures, which are also referred to in the article, be adapted quickly and that the time required for this is reduced. Now that's been arranged by the SDF as well. There's progress in that. Humanitarian aid workers still do not have access to the screening sites of the SDF. That's all for security reasons. Of course, we support the call for unhindered access to the needy for aid workers, so that they can really do something there. There is, of course, the need to protect all citizens, especially women and children. We carry that out everywhere. We also provide financial aid to this. My foreign minister is now on his way to the ministerial meeting of the anti-ISIS coalition. There he will stress to the coalition partners the importance of better access to those in need. I myself will do so next week, again at an anti-ISIS meeting. We will also appeal to the UN to scale up its capacity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-5.u5	The same camps we are talking about are currently also home to Dutch women and children. For one of them, that help came too late, that's how we read last week. The cabinet has since long refused to help them fortunately changed its mind when it comes to bringing these people back and into safety. So I would now like to hear what the cabinet is going to do in the short term to bring the Dutch children in those camps to safety. My second question is this. It's about perspectiveal care in the region. I hear the Minister saying that it is about access for aid organisations and transport, but at the moment we have to note that none of this is there. Those conditions are not met. So how are we going to check on this reception in the region, which the cabinet says is the solution to the refugee crisis?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-5.u6	Before I give the floor to the Minister of Defense: bringing women and children back really falls under the jurisdiction of the Justice Department. Everything has to do with everything, I learned here, but it is a different subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-5.u7	Yeah, but those women and kids are in the same camps we're reading these reports about right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-5.u8	Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-5.u9	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would also have liked to say that this falls within the competence of the Member of the Court of Justice. I have, of course, seen that there were also oral questions on this subject which are not on the agenda today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-5.u10	That's why I'm saying it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-5.u11	I know that there are also a number of debates on this; I do not know when exactly, but somewhere in the next week. I can only say what the Prime Minister and Mr Grapperhaus have said. We are now looking very strongly at what we can do, but it is a very dangerous area. I can say something about it where it is not so easy to bring people back. That is why we are looking so explicitly at what is in that judgment. Of course, we will do everything we can to provide people with perspective. We have worked hard on this in recent years. There is also a lot of financial support for the Syrians sitting there. Last year alone, we put $27 million into that. As a whole, I have looked at this once again for the answer to the questions that have been put to me, and more than 400 million have already gone to Syria to make sure that something is actually done there. We're among the top donors, you might say. So what we can do about it, we'll do about it. But as horrible as it may be, we cannot break iron with our hands, because we have to operate in very horrible, horrible conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-5.u12	We must never accept that, as we read in messages, 29 children and newborn babies freeze to death. And the WHO warns that this also threatens 33,000 people. We can never accept that either. When I hear the Minister talking about offering perspective, I wonder: what perspective do you offer people if they are not sure of their lives, if even the most basic condition for survival is not met? I would therefore like to urge the Minister to remain in dialogue with the international aid organisations. They are an important link in this. Right now, they're not getting access. This requires not only diplomatic pressure, but also good contacts and talks with these international aid organisations. I stick to my question: how do we test this reception in the region if it turns out that even survival is a challenge?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-5.u13	On the first point, I would like to say the following. In my first reply, I said that we are talking to the organisations in the region and that we are doing everything we can to get them access to the camps so that they can provide assistance. That is why we are contributing to UN organisations and to the Red Cross. Then they can see where their commitment is most needed and help ends up with the people as best they can. But it is still a very complicated situation and Mrs van den Hul and I agree because it is an unsafe area. The best perspective is, of course, that a safe, stable situation will eventually be created in the region, which will ultimately enable us to return to normal development in the country. The majority of them are Syrians themselves, who have partly ended up there and who must have a perspective in their own country. That's what we're committed to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-tweedekamer-5.u14	Thank you. Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Hul. This brings us to the end of this oral Question Time. I shall suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. Then we'll vote.
