ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the commemoration of Mr J.J.G. Tonnaer. I ask the Members to stand up. Today we commemorate Jacques Tonnaer, who died on 14 June last at the age of 87. He was a member of the First Chamber from 16 September 1969 until 17 September 1974 for the PPR. Jan Jacob Gerard Tonnaer was born on 4 February 1932 in Hoensbroek. After the HBS he went to the Roman Catholic culture school in Heerlen, where he was trained as a teacher in two years. He then studied as a head teacher in Roermond, which he successfully completed in 1954. In the meantime, he had started as a teacher in primary education in 1952. Five years later, he switched to industrial education. He stayed there for only one year because he was asked to be alderman in his hometown Hoensbroek. In 1965 he briefly returned to education, this time as teacher of teachers: he became a teacher at the teaching academy. In the 1950s, Tonnaer had become politically active for the Catholic People's Party (KVP), including as chairman of the KVP youths in Heerlen. 1958 was the year in which he started working for the KVP as an elected representative. In that year, Jacques Tonnaer became a member of the Provincial States of Limburg, with 26 years of age, the youngest State member of the Netherlands, a member of the municipal council of Hoensbroek and alderman in that municipality. Ten years later, in 1968, Tonnaer traditionally put politics in Limburg with a large KVP majority on his head by switching to the new Political Party Radikalen (PPR), of which he was co-founder. He was mayor of Schinveld for a year and was dissatisfied with the conservative course of his party, the KVP. The PPR had to be the green and progressive alternative to the KVP. From June 1970 to November 1971, Tonnaer was party chairman. In 1991 the party joined GroenLinks. When the PPR entered the First Chamber in 1969, Tonnaer became chairman of the one-man group. Even when the group grew in 1971 and 1974, Tonnaer remained chairman of the political group. At the same time, he was mayor of Schinveld, the only of the PPR in the Netherlands, and member of Provincial States. In 1975 Tonnaer was appointed mayor of Sittard, or "Zitterd," as is customary in Limburg. In the First Chamber, Mr Tonnaer, as chairman of the political group, participated annually in the General Political Reviews, in 1969 for the first time. In his extensive introductory speech he discussed the way in which the Chamber was elected. Tonnaer called the stepped-up right to vote "out of time." When asked by a colleague whether he did not think that "this Chamber is completely out of time," Tonnier diplomatically replied: "Now that I am only a member of this Chamber for two and a half months, I do not want to judge it at this time." 50 years later, this discussion is equally topical. In 1983 Mr Tonnaer was appointed Officer of the Order of Orange-Nassau and in 1995 he received the Meritkreuz 1. Class des Verdienstordens der Bundesrepublik Deutschland. He was also appointed Officer in the Order of the Crown of Belgium and Knight in the Order of the Holy Gregory the Great. In addition to his social and political career, and up to a very old age, Jacques Tonnaer was particularly active as a director. At the age of 80, he said, "I've never seen the infamous black hole inside. My guns? Get out the door and meet as many people as possible." He was a member of the Regional Board for the Labour Services of South Limburg, a member of the Board of the Social Historical Centre for Limburg and of the Sittard Rosa Lima Foundation. He was also a member of the board of supervision of the care farm Ophowerhof in Sittard and honorary chairman of Sittards Mannenkoor Si-Tard. Jacques Tonnaer was known as a mild radical, as broad-speaking as diplomatic, tireless and aimabl. He loved music and reading. "Unreading a day was not a day for me," he said to newspaper De Limburger in 2011. May our respect for his person and his merits for society and Dutch parliamentary democracy be to the support of his family and friends. I ask everyone to observe a moment's silence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-24-eerstekamer-3.u2	Thank you.
