ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u1	The next item is the 30-member debate on the dangers of wood burning. I welcome the Secretary of State, the Members, the people in the public gallery, and anyone who follows this debate at home in a crackling fire. As the first speaker from the Chamber, I give the floor to Mrs Teunissen of the Animal Party, whose colleague has requested today's debate. She is therefore the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Many people think, under the influence of subsidies and advertising, that firewood is a sustainable alternative to the burning of natural gas. This is why more and more people are buying pellet stoves and biomass boilers, subsidised by the government. But the fact that wood sticks can be clean is a soot black myth. Wood burning releases considerably more CO than natural gas. In addition, wood stinging is harmful to health. Fine dust, soot, benzene, carbon monoxide and packs are carcinogenic and harmful to the heart and blood vessels and the airways. It's inconceivable to avoid unhealthy particles entering your body as an assassin. 12,000 Dutch people die prematurely from the effects of soot and fine dust. The most vulnerable groups in our society, such as young children and lung patients, are hit hardest. Wood smoke in their neighborhood forces many people with lung problems to stay in or even move in daily. Of course, there are differences between fireplaces, wood and pellet stoves and biomass boilers, but they are all harmful to climate and health. Even the Ecodesign heaters, which become mandatory from 2022 onwards, are anything but clean compared to sun, wind and heat pumps. In practice, they emit ten times as much as in the lab. Do we get the shuffle milk achel after the shuffle diesel? Will the Secretary of State intervene? The Health Council and the Long Fund strongly ask for active discouragement of private firewood, but the Cabinet does the opposite; it subsidises pellet stoves and biomass boilers for €500 and €2,500 respectively, and promotes them as renewable energy sources. Last year, more than 11,000 pellet stoves and 2,000 biomass boilers received subsidies. This grant is a powerful incentive towards more harmful air and more CO emissions. Promoting air pollution and selling as a sustainable alternative is simply not in order and misleading the consumer. Mr. Chairman. The subsidy and the promotion of wood stoves should stop as soon as possible. Is the Secretary of State prepared to abolish this subsidy? The savings that this brings can then benefit energy savings or heat pumps; a simple, free measure that is clearly effective and should not be reviewed. The subsidy shows that the voice of the most vulnerable, the people with lung problems and young children, needs to be taken more seriously into account in dealing with firewood. Finally, I would like to ask the Secretary of State's commitment to tackling the so-called bonfires, which lead to less and less joy and more nuisance, including for the airways. Will the Secretary of State, after Scheveningen, consult with the VNG to see how this blazing tradition can be contained as soon as possible? Because that gives air to the vulnerable people and animals; a glimmer of light in the dark days. I like to get a reaction to that, especially because the Easter fires are about to come again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u3	Thank you. As a second speaker from the Chamber, I give the floor to Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u4	Thank you, Madam President. We still do not comply with the legal standards for air quality, and even within those standards tens of thousands of people suffer health damage every year. Fortunately, we can see that cars, trucks and factories are slowly getting cleaner. In ten years, the last diesel car will be sold, so the outlook is positive. But that doesn't apply to wood stoves. They are a source of pollution, which is becoming relatively important. There are virtually no rules for firewood and when there are, the assessment is rarely unambiguous and is not maintained. Wood smoke leads locally to unacceptable nuisance and health damage. Especially people who are sensitive, such as lung patients, can suffer from their burning neighbors. We really need to take this problem very seriously. The existing rules and arrangements are not sufficient for this. It is unnecessary inconvenience that we do to each other, because there is much to be done about it. The difference in emissions between a good and a bad stove, between good wood or waste wood burning, between favourable and unfavourable weather is enormous. That is what good rules and hard agreements are about and ensure that they are complied with will be of great interest. The Wood Smoke and Health Platform makes sensible proposals, about information, good rules and measurement methods to maintain, health effects studies, strict requirements on stoves and chimneys, and not stoking in adverse weather. The Secretary of State states that he will further investigate many of the recommendations, whether they will be translated into policy. For example, I am very pleased with the decision to bring into force the European Ecodesign rules in the Netherlands two years earlier. That's a good idea. However, nothing has yet been arranged for existing heaters and fireplaces. What will the Secretary of State do with all those old heaters, a substantial part of which is very polluting? Is there going to be a minimum requirement for existing plants, a ban on combustion as a nuisance to old plants and a failure to comply with new rules? Will there also be a ban on the disposal of chemically processed waste wood? I also have questions about the heating advice and the possibility of maintaining it. These rules are now very vague, which means that many municipalities do nothing. Smoke nuisance is always local and very time-bound. In the event of nuisance, therefore, a rapid check must be carried out. A enforcer must therefore be able to intervene. What resources do municipalities get and have for that? Finally, I would like to see structural policy on this. We need to monitor how effective the new rules are. Are they maintained, or is there a need for more or other policies? Please include in the Air Quality Action Plan, with an annual review of progress. Let me turn to the question of subsidies for certain forms of wood-burning or biomass in a broader sense. I believe that there should be much clearer sustainability criteria for this. I will discuss this with the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy in particular. There are now things being subsidised that we really should not subsidise anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u5	Mr. Van der Lee, Mrs. Van Eijs of D66 has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u6	Mr Van der Lee raises an interesting point about the simply burning of chemically processed wood. As far as I know, you're only supposed to burn firewood that's supposed to be fuel for heaters. I think it's good to raise awareness of that. In addition, he talks about enforcement. I wonder how GroenLinks sees enforcement. D66 seems like something you should look at very locally. If your neighbor is burning, we in The Hague can't do that very much about it. How does GroenLinks see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u7	I agree with you. That needs to be filled in locally. You should be there soon. There must therefore be capacity of enforcers to act against it. That means a lot. You can't just walk in the front door. I guess you'll have to look at sample forms. In a municipality you have to see where wood is fired occasionally what type of wood is being sprayed. I think you should build that enforcement process very carefully, because it is quite a transition from the current situation. You can't immediately send a enforcer on every report. It is important that people know that the municipality also supervises the type of wood that is being sprayed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u8	I think I agree with GroenLinks that this is a local thing. Mr Van der Lee also mentioned policy. The same applies, of course, to policies. We can, of course, have a lot of nice policies in The Hague. If someone's really upset and calls the city, it's possible he's not gonna find any answer there. That's where there's supposed to be a policy. Does Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks agree with me that there should be a serious local debate on the policy of heating pollution?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u9	I agree with Mrs Van Eijs. That does not relieve us as a parliament and government of the duty to lay down clear rules. We also need to be very precise about what we actually mean by chemically processed wood. What's allowed and what's not allowed? We also need to look at whether municipalities currently have sufficient instruments and capacity to maintain them and if necessary to make local complementary policies. I do not want to enter into this freedom, but at a national level we have to set frameworks for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u10	You were ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u11	Yeah, I was done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u12	All right, that's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u13	I have time left, but I would like to give it to the next speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u14	Look. Then that's what we're gonna do. Then you'll have ten more seconds, Mr. Laçin of the SP. I heard you say "thank you."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. The burning of wood is not sustainable. Many harmful substances, such as particulate matter and benzene, are released. This results in air pollution, health damage and odour nuisance. However, the number of wood stoves in the Netherlands is increasing. Especially people with lung diseases suffer a lot from this. I am getting more and more messages from people who have to keep their windows closed and barely come out, especially in the winter months, because they are getting stuffy from the wood smoke. We're dealing with a national problem here. I am therefore surprised that the Minister, in her letter yesterday, first of all refers to a local problem as a nuisance caused by wood smoke. Air pollution and health risks are national problems and also demand national direction, especially because we know that more than 10,000 people die prematurely from air pollution every year, and the Secretary of State is preparing the Clean Air Agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u16	Mr von Martels of the CDA has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u17	Mr Laçin was already a bit further in his speech, but I would like to return to the fact that he said that there are more and more wood stoves in the Netherlands. I've heard very different messages. All I've heard is that there's been a decrease in the sale of wood stoves. So my question is: what sources do you draw?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u18	From the messages I received, for example from the Long Fund. It contains clear figures showing that, for example, the number of wood stoves, pallet heaters, has increased enormously in recent years. We also believe that pallet heaters are not durable. That is why I refer to this as an increase in the number of wood stoves.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u19	Six months ago, I put the same question to the Secretary of State. He then replied in writing and said: the sale of woodburning stoves stagnates and even decreases something. Perhaps the Secretary of State will be able to supplement this later, because we need to rely on the right figures and the right input.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u20	Agreed. According to the messages I've read, it's increasing. I wonder what the Secretary of State will have to say about that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u21	Mr Ziengs of the VVD also has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u22	Yeah, at the same time. I also heard those numbers. I think: yes, it's wonderful that we're here to announce that news to the Dutch public, but I do have figures here that show that in 2006 there were almost 1.3 million fireplaces and stoves and that in 2018 it was only 841,000. So there's not a little bit of a drop in that, but quite a drop. We can make a nice story here, but the numbers have to be right, I guess. In my opinion, these things are also endorsed by the Dutch Haarden and Stove Industry Foundation. He did the same research that CBS even looked forward to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u23	I therefore also deliberately name the pallet heaters. There's a huge increase in numbers. I very much agree with the Party for Animals that selling pallet heaters as sustainable is also misleading. In that sense, there is certainly an increase in the number of pallet heaters. There are now over 11,000 to 12,000, while there were only 1,000 years ago. That has indeed to do with the subsidy that stands for it. I will come back to that later in my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u24	Mr Ziengs has a second interruption first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u25	Indeed, I understand from Mr Laçin's reply that he does name the pallet heaters. I also see in the figures that they have had a turnout, with 48,000 of them. But even then, we will not be able to achieve a great increase in its totality. I'm just gonna give that to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u26	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u27	I would like to make a number of specific points, starting with information. The Secretary of State says she wants to improve current information. In her letter yesterday, she mainly points to the way of burning and the time of burning, while in our opinion information should focus on air pollution and its impact on environment and health. As far as we are concerned, wood-burning must therefore be discouraged. Does the Secretary of State agree with the SP? And if we want to discourage firewood, it goes without saying that we are going to end the subsidy on pallet heaters as soon as possible. On the one hand, discouragement and, on the other hand, the granting of subsidies is totally unbelievable. As far as we are concerned, research into the desirability of subsidies for small installations is therefore superfluous. I'd like to advise the Secretary of State as soon as possible. Information should focus not only on current wood producers, but above all on the general public. Because we know that when the energy bill goes up, there is a refuge on wood stoves. And what account goes up because of government policy? Indeed: the energy bill. The high-energy bill hotline that the SP launched on Monday is red-hot, I can report to you. Is the Secretary of State prepared to focus information also on the general public and not just on the stokers of today? Mr. Chairman. Germany and Belgium already have stricter requirements for wood stoves. In order to prevent wood stoves that will not be used in our neighbouring countries from coming to the Netherlands, the Secretary of State will also introduce the Ecodesign Directive in the Netherlands by 1 January 2020 at the latest, she writes. But the question is, of course, Mr Van der Lee also asked this question: what happens to the heaters that are already being used, those older, more polluting heaters that can still be purchased this year? What do we do about it? The Ecodesign Directive has not yet solved this problem. Does the Secretary of State agree with us? Finally, Mr President, I come to enforcement. There are rules regarding nuisance in the neighborhood. But how are they maintained? What rights does someone who experiences nuisance, went to the neighbors and got zero on the record? A report to the municipality and, with luck, someone who comes to check in, is not enough. Maintaining a national problem must also be regulated nationally. We need to outline frameworks so that there are no differences between the municipalities. Is the Secretary of State prepared to look into this? As far as we are concerned, direction by the Secretary of State and setting up frameworks are necessary, including with the Clean Air Agreement, which is now being drawn up. Is the Secretary of State prepared to include wood stumps in them and set enforceable targets in them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u28	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Van Aalst of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Maybe I should light this fire. It's weird. What we're doing here doesn't make any sense. A thirty-member debate on the great danger called "woodburning stove." Since the beginning of humanity we have been burning fires with wood, but now the environmental fetishists have declared war on it. Mr. Chairman. The efforts of the Party for Animals to restrict or even ban the burning of wood are patronizing. How do they manage to ruin the fun and cosiness of a woodburning stove for a large part of the Netherlands? Do they want to ban the barbecue soon? At least they've already started with the meat. Mr. Chairman. This is hypocritical, because precisely the Party for Animals, which puts this issue on the agenda, is the party whose leader of the political group makes the most use of fine dust emission aircraft. For a vegetarian convention in Los Angeles, she can fly up and down for a day. And a climate summit in Mexico is worth a plane ride. A nice conference in Georgia will also take her for a while. It's not a problem for the Party for Animals. But if you're at home reading a book for the fireplace, they'll turn you into an environmental criminal. Mr. Chairman. The impact on the environment will be limited if wood-burning is controlled.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u30	Mr Van Aalst, I think Mrs Teunissen of the Party for Animals has another question on the previous subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u31	I think so too, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u32	Every year it is estimated that about 750 to 2,500 people die prematurely from wood smoke. Does Mr Van Aalst find that patronizing?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u33	You have to put the context in the RIVM figures. Some people would indeed have aged without all kinds of conditions in the Netherlands in terms of air quality. Just watching sec and saying someone dies from a woodburning stove is bullshit, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u34	In any case, wood smoke causes a lot of emissions of particulate matter and other carcinogenic substances. Then I wonder what Mr Van Aalst is going to do to help those suffering from these harmful substances, those suffering from lung problems, those even having to stay inside, those who are distressed or even have to move because of those harmful emissions. I am very curious to see what solutions Mr Van Aalst has to deal with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u35	Let me start by saying that it is very patronizing to then ban the fireplace and the wood stoves. That's not gonna solve the problem. That's what we do with other things to improve air quality. We have also discussed this many times in other debates. Only a ban on wood stoves is really not going to improve air quality. In any case, let us say that the amount of fine dust has decreased by as much as 50% in recent years. We have just heard that the number of wood stoves is decreasing. So the urgency of abolishing all these woodburning stoves from today to tomorrow is simply unnecessary and unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u36	I would like to conclude with a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u37	I am curious to see the solution that Mr Van Aalst has. He says the ban on wood stoves is not a solution. Then what is the solution to combat specifically wood smoke?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u38	I don't see any problem dealing with wood smoke. Maybe people who buy a new stove in the coming years, for example, switch to a pallet stove or whatever kind of stove that emits much less. If I were to give an opinion to the Lady of the Party of Animals, I would say that she should at least start the flight hobby in her own party. 'Cause it's a little hypocritical to lecture us now, when you're the biggest extortionist.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u39	I have a question from Mr Van Aalst. Who are you actually addressing right now? 'Cause I haven't pronounced a total ban on firewood yet. I won't bring that up later either. So are you focusing on the Animal Party in particular?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u40	Yes, indeed, I am focusing in particular on the applicant for the debate. 'Cause it's total shit to do this. We see a number of proposals coming along. You may wonder to what extent the Chamber is about burning wood. Believe me, people with fireplaces there are a few here tonight. They really know what kind of wood they have to put in the stove. They're not gonna put weird painted wood in their stove. And indeed, we just shouldn't do that to each other. But believe me, people who really do deal with a fireplace and have warmth and cosiness, really know which oak or beechwood should be in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u41	For the second part of your speech, I can indeed imagine that you will continue to focus on the Animal Party. So I don't have to listen anymore? Or can I expect any useful tips from you in the second half of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u42	In any case, I would suggest that we listen carefully to all my speeches, because I am sure you will be able to learn some of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u43	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u44	Mr. Chairman. Nihil! The impact on the environment will be limited if wood-burning is controlled. Where the small woodburning stove of the common man is soon forbidden, they are building hundreds of new coal plants on the other side of the world. What do all these parties think they're gonna do with this now? Mr President, one more point. Listen carefully, Mr. von Martels, because that will be important to you. This is impossible. How will this ban or restrictions on wood-burning be maintained in due course? Is there gonna be a fireplace cop who's gonna have to rip out smoke from the chimney every time they report it? Will the stove police be knocked hard on the door when the family sits together around the woodburning stove in the winter? Is Daddy gonna be handcuffed off because he had an illegal pile of wood in his shed? Mr President, don't! That's the opinion of the PVV. Knock it off with this madness and this endless whining! Leave our wood stoves and fireplaces in the Netherlands alone. Just let us chop wood when we feel like it and let us enjoy the delicious smell of our self-fired fire. People in the Netherlands do have other concerns at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u45	As far as enforcement is concerned, I know the PVV and Mr Van Aalst: good enforcement is important. And no, we don't need a stove cop on the SP. But we do have the ILT and the municipal environmental services that are also on enforcement. Does the PVV not agree with us that we need to outline national frameworks here, also in order to avoid arbitrariness within the municipalities? Then there can be a clear response to reports of nuisance, so that people who are suffering, such as lung patients and young children, are served. They shouldn't be pushed aside. Doesn't the PVV think that's important?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u46	Sure, you have to take every complaint seriously. But you also know how understaffed the ILT is. On a regular basis, the SP has supported our motions to boost the ILT, but at the moment we have to conclude that the ILT has absolutely no manpower to maintain it. I can imagine that the ILT has a different priority at the moment than restricting those woodburning stoves.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u47	As far as we are concerned, the argument put forward by the PVV, namely no capacity, is a non-argument. We're fighting together for more capacity at the ILT. That is something we can arrange here with the support of the coalition, hopefully in the short term. The question is whether the PVV thinks that at the moment of nuisance, so if people are affected by this and keep their windows closed all winter long, something must happen. Or does the PVV say: those people piss, let them stay inside and we're not gonna do anything with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u48	No, trouble must always be taken seriously. If a complaint is made to a municipality, I do indeed think that the municipality should just take it up nicely. But to have a big debate on this tonight seems a little unnecessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u49	You were done with your contribution. Thank you, Mrs Van Eijs of D66 has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u50	Mr. Chairman. Where there's smoke, there's fire. Woodburning stoves are cozy and provide a homely atmosphere, but if you use them wrongly, for example by burning your painted building waste or old furniture, or if you don't take the wind direction into account, it can cause a lot of nuisance to your neighborhood, and you may even break the law. D66 is for smarter and more responsible stoking, which reduces nuisance. That is why I want to talk about awareness, resource policy and effective enforcement. 'Cause whoever's legally burning must be on the blisters. It is very important that wood-burning stove owners become aware of their responsibility to their neighbours. We must prevent stokers from burning chemically processed wood, which is prohibited, or from burning it under inappropriate weather conditions. The Secretary of State places the responsibility for information mainly on the municipalities, but is it not wiser in this case to launch a campaign with the heating industry and other interested parties during the heating season? In addition, a fire alarm is being developed on behalf of the State Secretary. How's this gonna look? Will it become accessible and user-friendly with attention to local differences, so that people know when better not to stoke and take account of each other? Then there's the source policy. D66 welcomes the accelerated introduction of the Ecodesign Directive. This means that new heaters will produce more heat and release less fine dust. A level European playing field is of great importance and a good example is a good example. The ecodesign is a step in the right direction, but in what ways can the wood stove be further improved? When we talk about best practices, perhaps the German example can be followed by introducing certification of chimney sweepers and by encouraging periodic testing of wood stoves, as with central heating boilers. Is the Secretary of State prepared to investigate in what ways, for example through certification or the use of improved soot filters or disposal, it can contribute to better combustion and less nuisance? Mr. Chairman. My final point is enforcement. Enforcement must take place at municipal level and for this, municipalities must take heating nuisance seriously, formulate policies and include rules on burning in their APV. In the event of repeated violations, municipalities may impose heating bans. TNO develops a useful method for measuring nuisance. After all, measuring is knowing. It is essential to be able to tackle troublemakers and to maintain them effectively. Does the Secretary of State know what percentage of the APV's rules on stoking are included in? In what way is woodburning stove nuisance addressed by municipalities? How can you deal with pertinent and conscious offenders? How will the fight against woodburning nuisance be reflected in the Clean Air Agreement? That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u51	Mr Laçin has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u52	Let me just say a few words about maintaining it. Many APVs have already included rules on the reduction of nuisances. We read in the Secretary of State's letter that argumenting nuisance, which can lead to no more burning, is hardly happening. Does D66 therefore agree with us that national frameworks should be outlined, so that local enforcers have a little more guidance and can go further in their policies?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u53	As I indicated in my contribution, I think that the municipalities are particularly in need of handles in order to be able to really determine what is nuisance and what is not a nuisance. Municipalities have doubts about imposing a ban on combustion if they can't enforce it and if that doesn't last in court. National frameworks will sometimes not meet and are sometimes too strict for local conditions and are therefore not the optimal solution. We really need a way of measuring how we can ask RIVM, for example, what is a good standard to apply. Now it is very difficult to say definitively: this is a nuisance and this is not a nuisance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u54	Once with D66, Chairman. I call it rural frameworks, D66 calls it handles. I think we agree that there should be frameworks. They may be measurement methods, they may be national frameworks, but D66 and SP agree that more is needed to maintain them properly. I'm happy about that in itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u55	Okay, you were done. Then I give the floor to Mr von Martels of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Hopefully it is merely a coincidence that we are having this debate this evening, between Scheveningen's still after-molding bonfire in political terms and the discussions about Easter fires which will undoubtedly flare up again in the near future. I am happy to make a contribution on these issues, but in view of the limited speaking time, I will focus only on one subject, including this evening's subject: woodburning stoves. Thanks to the letter from the Secretary of State we received yesterday, many questions have been answered and concerns removed. We wholeheartedly support the Secretary of State's line that there should be no general ban on wood stoves. We can improve air quality even further without having to take such rigorous measures. However, we are in favour of a fire alarm system and we are also in favour of bringing forward the new ecological Ecodesign Directive. Mr. Chairman. During the Air Quality AO last July, I indicated that we consider it important that there should not be a uniform national policy, but that municipalities should be able to take action if necessary if the situation so requires. In densely populated areas woodburning stoves can cause more nuisance for neighbours than in the outside area. Customisation should therefore be possible. Can the Secretary of State indicate what measures municipalities can already take and what additional measures it is considering under the Clean Air Agreement, in relation to the aforementioned measurement protocol? Mr. Chairman. Then there's the question of how big the problem is. Before numbers and numbers start living their own lives, we want to know from the Secretary of State exactly what we are talking about and how many people are experiencing nuisances. In her letter, the Secretary of State states that a fifth, 20%, of the people have a fireplace or a fireplace and half of the people suffer from wood smoke. These seem stigmatizing figures and it also seems misleading, because the Platform Wood Smoke and Health shows more sense of reality, because the letter from the Platform Wood Smoke and Health states that about 14% of people have wood-fired installations and only 10% are affected. So I'd like an explanation for that difference. And then, well-burning is a trade. No, it's not a trade, it's a craft. It is therefore positive to see that in more and more places where stoves are sold there is boiler lesson in the package. With policy learning, it is also important to become aware of the circumstances in which neighbors may suffer from unwanted combustion behaviour. Smoke development can, for example, be countered by not burning wet wood.......................................................................................................................................................... And then I have another great concern about woodcracking, namely that there are still about 2,000 chimney fires every year. I was rather shocked by this number and therefore I think it is important that we not only look at the heaters but also at the installation around them. How can we ensure that people can also safely stoke and these numbers go down? Does the Secretary of State recognise this problem and what solutions does it see? Three seconds, I see.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u57	And an interruption. So maybe you can get those three seconds... You're done with your input?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u58	I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u59	I shall then give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u60	I have also found that in many places where you can buy stoves, heating advice is also given. But I do have two questions. That happens, as far as I know, by the stove industry but not by all the construction markets where stoves are sold. My second question is: how are we going to reach all those people who already have a wood stove? They throw in a lot of things, even though that's not always the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u61	I had hoped that you would also ask what the Swiss stack method looks like, but you did not. So I can't do that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u62	I would be happy to explain this Swiss method of stacking again, but perhaps Mrs Teunissen's question is aimed at that. Maybe. How do we achieve everyone and how do we ensure that everyone burns wood in a good way and that there is only untreated wood? But I think the most important thing, and I think the Secretary of State wants to go along with that, is that only approved installers place stoves. That also means that there's some advice on how to get started. Actually, I'd like to get a little rid of the fact that there are random and even online heaters that can be purchased. So that recognition for a good stove must be attached to it. I mean a kind of label to ensure that good heaters are fired.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u63	I find that a very interesting thought and I wonder how the Secretary of State looks at it. One element that I haven't seen in the pieces yet, but that I do hear back, is that heaters are often bought too large by people. They often just have a terraced house or a two-under-one-hood house. There are few people who have a large detached house where they can stoke. The heaters are generally quite heavy. If you buy a too large stove for your living space, you don't burn efficiently, and that gives you more emissions et cetera. How can we solve this problem? I would like to bring it to the debate deliberately, because if you put it down in the wood-burning industry, it will appear that it wants to sell a large stove; at least I assume that, but perhaps I am too suspicious. You really should buy a stove that fits the volume of the space you're burning. How are we gonna fix this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u64	I'm glad you're asking the question, because I didn't say for nothing that I was worried about the chimney fires. These are often caused by the fact that the smoke canal is not adapted to the size of the stove. It also has to do with the misfire. So we have to try to take the profit at the front by working with recognized installers who look at the whole package, so both the good heating and the stove as well as the smoke canal. So I think we're on the same page.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u65	Mrs Teunissen also has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u66	An interesting point that Mr von Martels raises is that of the number of people affected by the emissions of wood smoke. He mentioned that 10%. Of course, these figures are relevant to this debate, but does Mr von Martels not think it is more relevant what kind of people they are? They are mostly precisely the most vulnerable groups in the district, think of people with lung problems who belong to that 10%. When we talk about numbers, doesn't Mr von Martels think it's much more important that we look at how we can protect the most vulnerable groups? Or do we have to wait for 80% of the people to suffer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u67	I do not want to show with my input that I would like to trivialize figures, quite the contrary. In any case, I would like to hear from the Secretary of State why she has such high percentage numbers. What matters to me is to make a profit. At the beginning of my speech I also said that I want air quality to be improved. That is what I see in the three strokes I have just mentioned: good heating, a good stove and a good installation around it. By making a profit on the front, I want to bring the percentages down. I don't want to take action until the consequences are unseen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u68	I am very pleased that Mr von Martels also wants to make a profit and that he also wants to tackle that wood smoke. In this context, I am curious to see how Mr von Martels looks at subsidies on pellet stoves and on bio-boiler heating. How does he look at that? Thousands of euros go there every time. The pellet stoves emit more fine dust than, for example, gas heating. So shouldn't we just get rid of these subsidies? Can't we put that money much better in really sustainable heating, like heat pumps?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u69	I have not yet experienced that there is a subsidy on the use of pellets for the wood stove, I have to say honestly. I know, however, that there are still possibilities for subsidies for the larger combustion plants. I believe that this is a debate that should be held separately to see to what extent that is still desired and what consequences it all has. I know that the Netherlands will soon become one of the largest importers of pellets. So it is time to see how we are going to deal with it in the long term. This is a point to be discussed together, including with the policy spokesmen: how should we deal with it in the future? But for the time being, as far as I know, there is still that possibility for the large combustion plants. I haven't experienced that it applies to the wood stove myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u70	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u71	I am glad that Mr von Martels is open to taking a good look at these subsidies. It is indeed very important, even for this debate, because these subsidies really go to private combustion plants: the private pellet stoves €500 subsidy; the bioboilers €2,500 grant. It's really a big deal. Eleven thousand grants were paid in the last year. So we can put that much better into real, sustainable heat solutions like heat pumps. I hope that Mr von Martels will take a look at this with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u72	That's the first one for sure. If we come to a certain conclusion, we can always see what the next step will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u73	That ISDE grant is just there. We'd like to get rid of that for those pellet heaters too. But my question is about enforcement. I hear Mr von Martels bringing in an interesting idea. Those heaters are also sold at the hardware store. The question then is how we are going to maintain on the installation of those heaters that are simply sold at the construction market. GroenLinks just said it's hard to maintain behind the front door. The heaters are simply sold at the construction markets, so how are we going to ensure that those heaters behind the front door, at home with people, are installed by an approved installer? Does Mr von Martels have any ideas about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u74	Sure. Then you have to work with certification. That means you can only use heaters that have a certain quality mark. The same applies to the installers. They must, of course, also comply with the directives that are being drawn up. That includes the whole package, as I said. That includes the information. Only by serving the consumer with the whole package can you ensure in the future that the nuisance will be kept to a minimum. But then the whole package must be well connected. That way, I see opportunities for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u75	I can't quite get an answer to my question. I'll go to the hardware store tomorrow, get a wood stove and take it home. You can work with approved heaters with a certificate and with approved installers, but if I don't go to an installer and install it at home, who will stop me and how do we maintain it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u76	I have already put the question you are asking to the Secretary of State. That's where the network has to shut down. I am honest and sincere in saying that we need standards to ensure that we do not have to impose a total ban, but that we can make a profit on the front. This can only be done if the stove is correctly placed, if we know that there is a correct reflection between the smoke canal and the stove itself and if you are told how to stove exactly. Then the Swiss method comes up again, which will be put forward every time. That's how I want to make a profit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u77	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u78	In my view, then, all we have to do is send a maintainer after everyone who buys a woodburning stove at the hardware store. That takes a lot of capacity. Finally, I would like to ask another question very briefly. In my view, we come to the conclusion that wood burning is not sustainable and that it releases harmful substances. Does the CDA agree with the SP that we should focus the information campaigns, which the Secretary of State wants to improve, mainly on discouragement and not on better firing and at the moment? We can do that, but shouldn't we focus on discouragement so that we can get rid of it in the long run?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u79	Finally, Mr von Martels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u80	No, you don't have to discourage that. The accent must be placed in a proper way. In addition, we have been able to experience once again that sales have been adjusted downwards for years, from 1.3 million to 800,000 heaters. I want to put the accent in a good way of burning. There really is no need for a maintainer to act with every purchase. It concerns in particular those cases where there is real nuisance. Then you can ask if you have an approved installation and if it is placed in a good way. This can be done in a very simple and efficient way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u81	Mr. Von Martels is a fast learner. Last night we talked for a moment and then I told him about the Swiss combustion method. Apparently, he took over quickly. Too bad I'm the last speaker, otherwise I would have used it for a while. He was on my list. If I get any questions about it, I'm sure I'll give you an answer. The question I have to Mr von Martels is a very different one. I hear every time behind the speaker chair a plea for certified heaters, for certified installers who have to do all that. I wonder what we are all doing together. I just googled and it turns out that you also buy a stove at a hardware store with a nice instruction, a safety instruction and even a wood-burning instruction. In that respect, that market can also participate in the sale of those heaters. Of course, I have also seen the lobby coming across me from the heaters with a so-called certificate. Doesn't Mr von Martels agree with me that with this he is obliging the professional hobbyist, who is quite capable of crafting and putting together such a business and who lives somewhere in the countryside, 500 meters away from his next neighbors, to simply hire an installer to do this at an hourly rate?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u82	What I have put forward is that we see for a reason that there are 2,000 chimney fires every year. So if you pretend it's all going so well, there's no question of that. There are actual accidents. Those numbers can go back. In addition, we must also note that a lot of people are affected by these heaters. So all I'm putting forward right now is to prevent that in the future, and to ensure that we burn in a healthy way. I would therefore ask you to try to follow my plea to close the whole chain. Then people can burn in a professional way, but they can be justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u83	Does Mr von Martels also know that insurance companies simply make demands on those who have such a stove to sweep the chimney? Does Mr von Martels know that if there is a chimney fire that did not happen, the insured person concerned has a problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u84	Mr Ziengs asks a lot of questions. He just found out I'm a fast learner. The answer to his questions is "yes."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u85	Look. A final word? No, I'm done. Mr Van Aalst.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u86	Nice of you and Mr Ziengs to sit by the fireplace yesterday to review the Swiss combustion model. You probably threw some good cubes on the fire. Mr von Martels said at the beginning of his speech that he was sorry that he had little speaking time. I'm curious. You're a farmer. Farmers often have a nice fireplace around their yard to stir up some things. But of course there is also the great tradition in the east of the country, which you are also part of, of the Easter fires. I thought I'd give you a chance to find some of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u87	What do you think of the Easter fires?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u88	It's great to take advantage of one of those moments. I've always been a supporter of the Easter fires. I therefore believe that last year I asked very critical questions when RIVM considered it necessary to keep all kinds of samples to see how much particulate matter was released. Then I immediately asked questions to say that I really didn't need to. Traditions must be maintained. So I'm not an opponent of the Easter fires, if that's what you might think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u89	Okay. So as regards the tradition of Easter fires, having a fireplace and a woodburning stove, we as a PVV think at least the CDA on our side that at least these people need not worry for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u90	Not for the Easter fire, no. Definitely not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u91	Thank you. That would have brought you to the end of your speech. Then I will go to Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There are many Dutch people who are bothered by woodburning stoves. Let me not deal with Mr von Martels in terms of percentages. I would also like to hear an explanation from the Minister. Because the CBS is talking about 10%, but I do also see the platforms of interested citizens, where 50% is mentioned. I'd like a response to that. Both the Long Fund and the GGD have been warning about the negative health effects of wood smoke for some time. The Long Fund calls wood smoke a serious pollution of the air and according to the GGD run in houses where the fireplace regularly burns especially children additional risk of respiratory problems such as bronchitis, asthma and pneumonia. Woodburn also has negative effects on the environment. In the case of wood smoke, fine dust, soot and other harmful substances enter the atmosphere. In short, woodcutter always has a negative impact on the environment and on our living environment. But much can be avoided by firing well. With the Secretary of State, we note that many stokers are unaware of important knowledge about stoking. They have insufficient knowledge of the health effects of burning but also of when wood is better or not to be fired. How will the Secretary of State ensure that people are properly informed when purchasing? Is knowledge really taken to heart by the wood-burning citizen? Is there going to be an evaluation? How do we reach the citizens who already have a wood stove or a fireplace? The Secretary of State, together with the KNMI and the RIVM, is now shaping a general fire alarm that warns citizens of adverse weather conditions and is advised not to fire. I think that's good. We already have a heating pointer and it is visited 1,000 times a month. That seems a lot, but considering that 20% of households have a wood stove or a fireplace, that's really very little. So I think a fire alarm is very good. I have a few more questions. In Belgium, as far as we were able to find out within our group, a fire alarm was introduced in 2016. What are the experiences with our southern neighbours? What does the Secretary of State think of a ban on local or non-local combustion in the event of wind-silent and foggy weather, as is the case in Germany? How does the Secretary of State view the introduction of wood-smoke-free neighborhoods? In Germany, in addition to mandatory sustainable certification for new old wood stoves, they are phased out, unless a soot filter is installed. Enforcement is carried out by certified chimney sweepers. Is the Minister prepared to have all existing wood stoves, burners and fireplaces fitted with soot filters or replaced by a newer, relatively cleaner alternative, according to German example? The VNG has noted that in practice the maintenance of nuisance caused by wood smoke lacks not only a good method, but also clear standards on when wood smoke is harmful. This cannot be maintained in practice on the basis of the Building Decision. My question is whether the Secretary of State is prepared to set clear standards for annoying wood smoke, possibly taking into account weather and living conditions. Or is this something that needs to be done locally because of the large differences between municipalities? In any case, I note that standards are lacking and that enforcement is difficult. My last second I want to spend on the pellet stoves and the subsidy on them. That is a perverse incentive and I hope that the evaluation will show that we can stop doing so from 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u93	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Ziengs of the VVD. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u94	Thank you, Mr President. We live in a beautiful country and if you sit by your fireplace in the evening, by your wood stove, feet for the fire, glass and perhaps also a cigar, you think: what can we have together? However, there is also a category of people who do suffer from wood smoke and we should not neglect that. So we have to pay attention to that, but you can also pay attention to this through the measures proposed by the Secretary of State at the moment, i.e. focusing on information, ensuring that we can simply measure properly, is there really a nuisance? And perhaps the heating warnings, so that people who don't really know how to fire know that maybe they shouldn't do it for a while. In addition, you can also just go and talk to your neighbor or neighbor. If you find out it's bothering you, speak to them. You can generally see that a solution can best be found there. So we're following the Secretary of State's recommendations. I just have the question to the Secretary of State as to how this consultation with the heating industry took place in relation to the advance of the year 2022 to the year 2020. I hear fluctuating noises from the industry. It is also stated that many of the trading stocks that are currently available will become unsaleable. We have to take that into account. Then there's the question of how many people end up going. How many people are affected by that wood smoke? Well, that's important. We have seen a lot of facts come across here, but also a lot of facts that were actually lied to by other figures that were also passed by us, whether it was about numbers of heaters or numbers of people who are affected by them. If we want to determine something like that, let's take the right figures. "Stoken, together you'll get out," that's how I wrote down here on my paper. I now see Mr Laçin standing in for an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u95	And I'll give it an opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to keep going on those numbers. Mr Ziengs interrupted me on that and now I'm going to do it back, because I've also been looking for it. I wonder if Mr Ziengs knows the Knowledge Document Houtstook in the Netherlands from the RVO. This concludes on the basis of figures from the CBS that in 2010 we were still below the million free-standing stoves and pellet heaters and that we are now above that million in 2019. The question is whether Mr Ziengs knows those figures and is going to check his own figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u97	I also asked the Secretary of State because we have different figures here. The figures I have on my desk seem to differ from Mr Laçin's figures. So I think it is good that we get clear, but also reliable figures. It can only be that Mr Laçin's figures are not correct. But it could also be that the figures I have been given are not correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u98	In any case, that is a good conclusion from Mr Ziengs. I think we have debates here very often on the basis of CBS figures. In my contribution I included the CBS figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u99	Yeah, clear. That was clear, but I responded to it. We visit festivals where there are fire baskets, we participate in a barbecue, we love burning, we love fires, we enjoy that with each other. I'm sure you'll get out together. Finally, I have some tips. I have already indicated to Mr von Martels that the Swiss model simply means that you are building from low to high. The highest is just dry wood, block on top, ready. It's gonna burn solid instantly, and it's not gonna cause any smoke nuisance. It's the first tip you ever get. That tip was given by Mr von Martels, but he didn't quite explain it. He hoped, of course, that people would ask what it means. This is the way you can stoke. I have one last question for the Secretary of State. What about the insurance companies? How is that arranged when it comes to setting heaters? Do they have things in their terms that can now ensure that they at least give you a better quality? And that means that we do not have to take any further action? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u100	I have a question for Mr Ziengs: do you have a wood stove?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u101	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u102	How do you feel about tonight's debate? Do you often suffer from neighbors coming to you complaining about nuisances? How do you burn? And what do you think is the best way out of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u103	My neighbors all have a stove, too, so that's okay. It's very simple: we don't complain about each other's stove. I'm sure we'll work it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u104	Forgive me for taking a little ideological trip. Mr Ziengs is a liberal. Isaiah Berlin has indicated that there is such a thing as positive and negative freedom. We all want positive freedom: do what we like. But that has an impact on others. It is also important that a liberal protects negative freedom; that others do not suffer from the choices you make. Then I think it's a little too easy to say: together we'll figure it out. We can see that this often does not work locally. My curiosity is triggered when Mr Ziengs asks about the number of people who are suffering. Do I have to conclude that if the number is greater, he also finds it more proportionate to take tougher measures to better protect the freedom of these people who suffer from it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u105	Let's start with the first thing: the numbers. When it came to number of heaters, different numbers came along. When it came to numbers of people suffering from it, different figures came along. I think it is important that we at least have the right figures. When it comes to solutions, we are not in favour of a ban on heating. We are simply in favour of solutions that are already available. I just indicated: better heating, a good stove and a good drain. That has nothing to do with certification, but that simply has to do with a good disposition by anyone. That is what we are looking for solutions in. The great thing was that you started with Isaiah Berlin. I remember once taking a course at the VVD and he was quoted there. I figured that name sounds familiar. So I've been paying attention there, but I also know that you can explain that differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u106	I have one follow-up question on that. I understand your answer, the measures you want and the support for the proposals of the Secretary of State. But on another point: how are we going to maintain that? That's what you're from, isn't it? Mr Ziengs is a party to enforcement, I often hear in commercials. How is this going to happen in this area?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u107	Quite simply: it is unworkable and not enforceable. That would be my first answer. But I understand very well that there can be a solution in the end, and in the next form. If there is a complaint to the municipality about wood smoke, then the measures indicated by the Secretary of State are quite simple to check whether there is indeed a nuisance from that wood smoke, because it can be measured. In any case, that is the solution proposed by the Secretary of State. At that time it can also be investigated whether there is an incorrect stove. We have seen the videos of De Rijdenende Jug in which it was found that there was a valve not good in the stove, or that the one who fired just dirty or wet wood or wood with paint in it. In this respect, there are pretty well-ready solutions. If there's a complaint, that way you could find out afterwards that you're going to check, but not in a broad sense. We're not waiting for a stove cop.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u108	I just had a question about the 2,000 chimney fires that take place every year. What solution does Mr Ziengs see to bring down those numbers?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u109	I think those who have a stove should just put a metal pipe in their chimney and wipe it once a year, because that's what the insurers say. If you boil well, have a good pipe and don't cook parts of the wood, then nothing happens. Then it'll be all right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u110	That is precisely what this is about, because most people are not aware of it. They don't know exactly how to do it. How do you get these people to understand how to heat up in a good way and have the right installation? In my opinion, we still differ on how to ensure that people are aware of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u111	The average citizen now has the Internet. If you enter it, try it yourself; I've just done it. You'll come across the tips in a row. So it can't be that hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u112	So it is that difficult, otherwise those numbers would not occur over and over again. In 2018, there were almost 2,000 chimney fires. You expect everyone to take all your advice to heart in 2019, starting tonight, so that we don't have any chimney fires this year? I can't imagine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u113	I mean, this is kind of a like-dan question, isn't it? Quite simply: if the installation of the fireplace is neatly enough, you have the right pipe in it and you burn properly, then you don't get a chimney fire. That's an issue that used to occur very often in concrete or brick chimney channels where you had those fireplaces in it. Those chimney fires are still happening, but as I said just now: if you just put it right and neatly, there's nothing going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u114	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. The Secretary of State has asked for ten minutes of preparation before she can answer the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u115	I am happy to give the floor to the Secretary of State for the first-term reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It turns out again this evening: woodcracking is a subject that continues to concern the moods. There are people who like it and enjoy it, but there are also people who suffer from it. Everyone smells another stove once, but there is also a group of about 10% of the Dutch who really indicate that they suffer from wood smoke. This nuisance often appears to be caused by bad burning, for example with wet wood, or at times when there is no wind or it is foggy. This leads to high levels of particulate matter in the air, and there are indeed people who, for example, have lung disease and are then affected by it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u117	Mr. Von Martels, I'd like to give the Secretary of State the opportunity to speak her opening words. I think she's still working on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u118	That's right, Mr. Chairman. Then you come to the question of whether you should categorically ban wood stings. I've heard very few members of your Chamber say that. I note that there is a great deal of attention to efforts to reduce the nuisance, but I therefore do not think that we should categorically ban it. However, I believe that we should provide good information and ensure that new heaters meet the strictest requirements. Municipalities have an important role to play. They can determine where and when this real nuisance takes place, and then take very targeted measures to protect the people who need it. So I am thinking of good information, strict requirements for new heaters and also a heating system and sufficient instruments for municipalities. At present, the amount of particulate matter in the air is on average about 5% from the private wood stove in the Netherlands. With the Clean Air Agreement, I focus on achieving ever cleaner air. So I am also looking critically at the emissions of wood stoves and how we can effectively reduce the nuisance experienced. You have to be pragmatic in that too. Following the advice of the Wood Smoke and Health Platform, I thank them for the balanced report they have written. I therefore immediately took up some of their recommendations. Of the other recommendations, I asked the platform to provide further advice. As I have told you before, I am now working on resource policy. That is why I announced yesterday that I am working on speeding up the implementation of the Ecodesign Directive in order to prevent us from getting some kind of parallel imports of old heaters from countries around us. I am working very strongly on better information. I think there's really a lot of profit to be made there. Not all owners of a fireplace or a stove are aware of the environmental and health effects or of when and when you need to burn. That you shouldn't put a creosote in your stove, I think the average Dutchman knows that. But what exactly is the deal with the wind and the fog? That really is something where we still have a lot of profit to gain. That is why we are now working on the development of educational material and also on a heating system. Then I'll come to the trouble management. There are sometimes specific situations where there is real nuisance. Local authorities are primarily responsible for tackling this problem. Many of you asked in different terms whether the municipalities for that purpose I would like to sum up myself with the right instruments. Can they actually determine when there is a nuisance now? That's a lot of trouble, isn't it? Therefore, it was often difficult for municipalities to maintain. But for me TNO is now developing an instrument that can help municipalities. That's not a rural setting, because it really matters whether you live in a terraced house in a crowded, densely built urban environment or when you live in a very rural environment. If, for example, you use the same concentration, you do not have the same nuisance and the point is that we can address these nuisance situations in a targeted way. There are also a number of things to be said about enforcement, Mr President. I should like to say a few words about the figures: what are we actually talking about? On resource policy, on better information and dealing with nuisances and the role of the municipalities. Mr. Chairman. The first questions were about the figures: is the number of heaters increasing or decreasing? What about those numbers? We are indeed using the CBS figures at the moment. The CBS is currently in consultation with the stove industry because they have also seen that the stove industry's figures are slightly different and possibly even more accurate, because this concerns a more specific investigation. The CBS and the stove industry are therefore in consultation with each other on the figures. I suggest that I light up my light for a moment, for a change, at the CBS to see where these talks are and that I inform your Chamber of the latest figures on which we can base ourselves. Then there is the demand for the number of heaters. Is that gonna happen or is that gonna happen? You were also right: the total number of heaters is decreasing and the number of pellet heaters is increasing, but in total the stove park, to talk about it, becomes cleaner. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the block of information. No, actually, I'd like to start with the source policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u119	Mr Laçin has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u120	The Secretary of State just said that 10% of the nuisance is caused by bad fires. I wonder where the Secretary of State gets that from, what her source is for that. She also mentions 50% in her own letter. I would therefore like to give a further explanation of how she got those figures and why they are so far apart.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u121	Exactly 50% of people say they've been bothered by wood smoke. That's the 50%. I'm one of them myself. I live in a neighborhood and my neighbors happen to have a stove and I sometimes smell that stove. Is that what's bothering me? I've had a lot of trouble with that. Is that why I think my neighbors should close the stove? No, because I don't mind either. That's what happens when you live with a lot of people close to each other. I sometimes have a teenage party in my neighborhood, but that's why I don't think we should stop all of that. On the question "do you ever suffer from wood smoke?" So 50% of the people said yes. If you ask what conclusions people draw and whether measures really need to be taken, only 10% of people are in favour of them. That's where the numbers come from.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u122	The Secretary of State has said that the total number of heaters is falling and the number of pellet stoves is increasing, but because there is a total reduction, emissions are also decreasing. What is she basing the latter on? We see that these pellet stoves are increasingly being purchased by the Empire through subsidies, also as an alternative to natural gas. This can also make sure that you are going to stoke much more than before, because it is really an alternative to your gas heating. So instead of having a nice one-night fireplace, you're just going to use it as a standard heater, which could increase the fine dust emissions on balance. I am therefore very curious to see what the State Secretary's conclusion is that 'the number of stoves is falling, the number of pellet stoves is increasing, so we have reduced emissions altogether'. The fear is that emissions may increase as pellet stoves become more and more an alternative to gas.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u123	That wasn't my ruling either. I told him the stove park was getting cleaner. And, of course, emissions are related to the extent to which they are fired.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u124	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u125	Mr. Chairman. Then I'll go to the source policy. Questions have been asked about this by D66, the VVD, GroenLinks, the SP; in fact, almost everyone of you has asked questions about this. A question from D66 was in which ways heaters can be further improved, next to Ecodesign. It's good to stoke and not to stoke at the wrong time. There are still varying experiences with filters at the moment. Mrs Van Eijs made specific reference to this. They can also be very expensive. In the context in which we try to keep people's energy bills from running out unnecessarily, you should also ask yourself whether the mandatory installation of a very expensive filter is proportional to the profit you make with it. But I think we should check it out. In the context of the Clean Air Agreement, we will, of course, also look at points of reference: what points do we consider to be cost-effective in achieving further improvements in air quality? TNO sets out the options for me; that report will come in the spring. I will therefore involve that knowledge again in the design of the Clean Air Agreement. Mr Ziengs asked how consultations with the industry had taken place. There have been several contacts. The industry itself has indicated that there is no problem in these trade stocks. Leaving this in effect by 2020 also means that there is another year to sell the already purchased stock under the old rules. The industry has indicated in a press release that it is also positive about this proposal. As regards minimum requirements for an existing installation: heaters that are already in use shall be replaced over time. By tightening the rules, they are replaced by cleaner heaters. Mrs Van Eijs asked whether we are also learning from neighbouring countries. Germany has a specific measure for this purpose. I will request, inform and evaluate that information to see if that would be a cost-effective measure. A number of members asked about installation requirements. That is one of the fifteen solutions that the Platform Houtstook and Health has sent to us. This is one of the solutions where I asked the platform to come up with further advice. We will then, of course, look at what it delivers, whether it is feasible and whether it is cost-effective. These are matters that must always be taken into account in each of these measures. Any adjustments should be made to the building regulations of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. So I'm gonna get some information first. After that, I may have a discussion with the Minister for Foreign Affairs. A number of parties asked whether the subsidy on small pellet stoves could not be prohibited. In the draft climate agreement, we agreed that in 2019 we will evaluate the ISDE grant on small boilers. That's what my colleague from EZK is doing. It has been indicated that the effects on air quality will also be explicitly taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u126	Those pellet stoves have long been known to emit a lot of fine dust and too much CO more CO than if we heat on gas. There are much more important destinations for wood. In the circular economy, for example, we can use wood very well for new products. There is also a shortage of wood pellets. It's all clear. Then why does the government still want to assess whether these subsidies should be continued? Why doesn't the Secretary of State just say: we're gonna stop it, we're gonna go for really sustainable resources and we're gonna put our money into it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u127	Because I think you should carefully evaluate before you make or change policies. We're gonna do that evaluation now. I have indicated that air quality is part of that. I agree with Mrs Teunissen that it is important to use biomass in a high quality manner. These are all aspects that we take with us when the evaluation is carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u128	So I understand that these are all new studies, that the previous studies are unnecessary or not included in this respect, or that at least they are not enough to say that we are going to put these subsidies into real renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u129	Mrs Teunissen creates a black-and-white posture. I don't think that contradiction is so black and white. It is important to examine independently the effects that Mrs Teunissen is undoubtedly presenting. In addition, we need to consider, for example, the extent to which this subsidy will replace older, dirtier heaters with stoves with less fine dust emissions. Or is it the effect of more combustion that fine dust emissions remain the same and are there perhaps effects on other parts of the emissions? So I really think we should carefully evaluate this. That's what we're gonna do. The report will be available in mid 2019. That is, therefore, in the foreseeable future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u130	A brief final remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u131	Then perhaps a little step forward. The Ministry's website says that wood pellets are climate-friendly, while it has long been shown that that is not true. Its production is more polluting than fossil fuel production. Is the Secretary of State prepared to at least take a look at this and ensure that the promotion of wood pellets as climate-friendly is removed from communication in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u132	Also there I really think that you can't say that this is by definition the case. It really matters whether your wood pellets make up, for example, of residual wood that is left over from cutting works of State Forest Management. I think it's interesting to compare that to oil produced from tar sands. Perhaps that comparison is different from what Mrs Teunissen is saying here. So I think we really need to be careful with these kind of black and white scenarios. We must always look carefully at the real effects and, on the basis of them, conduct sensible policies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u133	I agree with the interruptions, but I would like to return to one of the previous points made by the Secretary of State under the heading of source policy. She indicated that she is quite willing to look at soot filters and an investigation into them, as Germany does. That's very nice to hear. But she also mentioned people's energy bill. I've been chewing on it for a while, but actually I'm a little surprised, because most people don't use a wood stove for their heat supply, but just as a luxury product. For most people we are not talking about heating in homes, but just really about a fireplace. My question to the Secretary of State is: does she also want to be involved in the research that in many cases it is not primarily about the heat supply for people, but really about additional requirements that we are going to be able to impose on something that is a luxury product anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u134	Of course we are taking that with us, but we do see that is actually Mrs Teunissen's point that some people are doing this specifically for heating. There could be good reasons for that, too. I also think that we should weigh that carefully. My point was that, at the moment, we are right, I think, to look very carefully at the burdens that we are imposing on households through the measures we are taking, and that you should always look at what is proportional, even when it comes to the profits that you are making. Sometimes the installation of a filter comes into an existing situation, where it is also a stove that is not often fired because it is an atmosphere stove, perhaps not as proportional good from the bus. That's actually what I wanted to report with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u135	I have a curious question on Mrs Dik-Faber's question. It is also true that you can buy 100 year old heaters at the moment. Then it's important to know how those old heaters are used. If it is indeed occasionally for the atmosphere, then it has a very different impact than if someone really uses it as a primary source of heat. Shouldn't that mean that enforcement also looks more strongly at this in the case of complaints? If someone uses such an old device almost daily, shouldn't you impose more stringent requirements on its quality?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u136	I think that Mr Van der Lee and I agree that it is important to be able to take measures where there really is structural nuisance. That is why I think it is important that we also allow municipalities to establish that there is a real nuisance. They can't right now. If they can, they also have an instrument with which they can then see in the local situation what it is about. Because not everything 100 years old is by definition bad. Then it can be carefully examined whether the fact that there is so much structural nuisance is due to the stove, to the combustion behaviour or to the material being fired. This will enable us to look very closely at how this nuisance can be dealt with. Of course, it doesn't matter to the people who suffer from it how this nuisance is dealt with, as long as it is dealt with.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u137	Good. That also affects the source policy, because you have the stove, but you also have the wood. Even today we see ads on Marketplace in which wood is offered of poor quality. Then you are talking about pallets, not the granules, but those things that are used in logistics in the Netherlands, which are offered to citizens to hide in the stove. This is also about processed waste wood. Is it not important to pursue stricter resource policies in this area and actively counteract the provision of this type of wood?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u138	Two things about that. First of all, in the Netherlands you are only allowed to burn raw wood. That's already legally anchored. The fact that this is difficult to enforce is also a reality; that is simply true. But the law is here. But in addition to that, I think that this information is so important that many people are not sufficiently aware of what it means, how unhealthy it is, for yourself, for the children who play around you and perhaps also your own children, and for your neighbors, when you put treated wood in your stove. A third aspect is that even good wood that you then leave in the rain for a few weeks has become bad wood. And last but not least, if you have good wood, but you have it wrong, if you don't know the Swiss method, you might be able to cause even more emissions. It is therefore complex to deal with the problem of pollution and to reduce emissions. If this really is a structural issue, then as a municipality you really have to look in the local situation at what exactly is going on and what it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u139	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u140	I couldn't agree more. Only, my suggestion is that it is also good, from the point of view of information and from the point of view of the awareness that only dry raw wood can be used, to actively act against people who offer wrong wood. That helps to raise awareness, that makes it visible and that also makes people less tempted. So that seems to me a very sensible additional element in the approach we are advocating.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u141	Then we get a little bit on a wood police or a fire police. Then what do you bet the available enforcement capacity on? The ILT conducts risk-based supervision. There is a rule in the Environmental Management Act, but the ILT will consider whether that is what it should use in particular its inspection capacity or that there are other aspects, with a higher social risk. We really have a lot to gain here through information, I think. That goes for a lot of people, if they are aware that it is also at the expense of their own health if they put shit in the stove. For example, through the Environment Centre, we should let you know much more about this. In doing so, we should look at the quality of what you are heating up. Then it's not only about when you burn, but also about what you literally breathe in when you put something in the stove. We must pay particular attention to this. I agree with Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u142	I was, in a manner of speaking, shot out of my chair by what the Secretary of State just said in her reply to Mr Van der Lee. On the one hand, we have given the fact that 60% of the more than 1.2 million lung patients show that they are under the pressure of wood smoke. We also have legislation that says you can't stoke processed wood. Then the Secretary of State says: it is also a reality that enforcement is difficult, complicated. I am thinking, especially of all those lung patients who suffer from it: what are we going to do to make that enforcement possible and what ideas and opportunities will the Secretary of State create to ensure that enforcement takes place? Because what is legislation if there is no enforcement?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u143	Legislation is also normative. What are we gonna do about it? Look, you can't drive through the red light either, but there are people who do. A campaign on road safety and the risks you run when you do that, I think it's more effective than standing at a crossroads somewhere and hoping to catch someone. You have to do both. But this is a dossier about which the industry, the Platform Houtrook and Health itself says: by providing good information about when and what to burn, there is an enormous profit to be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u144	I shall go through the example of road safety. In these debates too, we constantly stress that information is important, but that a notorious offender is not going to change his behaviour because of the MONO campaign, which is currently taking place. The same goes for wood smoke. Information is important. That is why I have also proposed to broaden information to the general public and to discourage it. That's what the Secretary of State's gonna come up with, I think. However, I believe that enforcement is essential to tackle those who do not change their behaviour or who continue to do what cannot or cannot be done. That's not happening right now. I am also curious to see that part of the Secretary of State's reply, about actually linking something of capacity or possibilities to it. Otherwise we will only have information campaigns and we will have to hope that the behaviour will change by itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u145	Mr Laçin and I agree more with each other than he suggests. Only the question is: do you have to maintain nationally or do you have to maintain locally? He's talking about the notorious offenders. That's the one you have to deal with. But you'll only find them locally. In fact, you can smell them like that. That must be done locally. In order to enable municipalities to do so locally in a way that lasts, I have TNO develop the criteria that a municipality can use to really tackle those notorious nuisances, which you probably do not reach with just information. You're gonna discover it locally, and you're gonna take it locally. I will then make sure that municipalities have sufficient tools to do so. The conclusion was: they're actually too few. That's why TNO is now developing that systematic for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u146	Finally, Mr Laçin, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u147	With these words I can confirm that we are more in agreement than it seemed. I'm not saying we have to put the ILT on it. I am merely saying that we need to outline frameworks here so that the various municipalities are involved, because if a local problem is spread across the country, it may become a national problem, but it may have the same means of dealing with the nuisance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u148	Yeah, we do share that. Mr President, I would like to continue with the information and what we are going to do. Mrs Van Eijs also asks to look at the countries around us. Indeed, I think it is very important to take advantage of those experiences. On 30 January there will be a consultation between the experts from my department and colleagues from the Benelux countries and North Rhine-Westphalia. That's where we see what they do abroad. Are there things we can learn and take with us? How's the fire alarm coming out? That was developed by KNMI and RIVM. Tonight, they're testing it on a residential panel. An alert is thought to be similar to the weather alarm or the smog alarm, so that it not only reaches people with wood smoke, but also the people with the heaters. That is the purpose of the report. The Christian Union is asking whether there will be an evaluation. In the development of the educational material, pilots are carried out in Utrecht and Amersfoort. So we are trying to test in advance how the message lands with citizens and what it does with the information. With the results of the pilots, we will continue to sharpen the message and ensure that it is well available for the next heating season. Of course, it is important to evaluate at some point how it worked. We'll take that into the monitoring. Do we include the industry in information? Yes, we do. We do this not only through the industry, but also through the industry. The information campaign focuses on awareness. Then we start by informing people about what wood smoke does to people's health and their environment. With this we hope to create awareness in a wider audience. In fact, I have already come to the enforcement role of the municipalities. In fact, I come to a part that I have just spoken to Mr Laçin about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u149	Mr Laçin had asked not only about 'information on how' but also about 'discourage'. That's probably his follow-up question. Maybe the Secretary of State can still respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u150	The President fully understood that, indeed. Awareness is important. Should the government and the local authorities use the public funds they use to make stokers and also potential stokers aware of the effects on health and the environment, because that environmental damage is also not used to discourage forest fires rather than just to raise awareness?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u151	The biggest effect on reducing emissions is to discourage people from making mistakes. There's the biggest profit to be made, I think. That is what we should focus primarily on information, and that is where we have the greatest health gain.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u152	Yes, but good combustion also causes environmental damage. Fine dust is emitted. Carbon monoxide is emitted, also with good combustion. That is why I believe that, especially at this time when we consider air pollution to be important and want to tackle it, the Clean Air Agreement will have to be put to the test of discouragement. Don't do that! There are much more sustainable options. Do this rather than say: do not burn it and do not burn it, especially at these moments and especially at those moments. I think that's a weird way to spend public money, because we know it's just not sustainable. So again the question: is not discouragement in these campaigns better than just awareness?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u153	Yes, but if Mr Laçin's reasoning is followed, you should actually ban the heaters. Because every stove that still burns gives that effect. Does the SP think it should be banned? Is the SP part of that 10%?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u154	That's a question back.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u155	I'm not supposed to, but if you feel free to answer, you can do it very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u156	If I had been in favour of a ban, I would have said so in particular. That's not what I'm here for. However, I do think that the government should primarily bet the money on "no wood-burning"............................................................................................................................................................................................. That is a conscious approach to say from the government: this is not sustainable and there are more sustainable alternatives. Let us phase this out in the longer term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u157	I hear Mr Laçin say that he accepts some damage from those heaters, because he does not want to ban them. Then, of course, the question is whether you think you should continue indefinitely. We are currently evaluating and taking air quality into account. Then it is also a question of whether you should continue to grant extra subsidies to these heaters over the next few years. We covered those two sides with that. There are people who have such a stove. If you're going to have a policy of discouragement for people who are now using such a stove for heating, you're actually going to say to those people: warm your house a little less. I think that's a complicated message. On the other hand, you have to keep looking at what's proportional. With providing good information about what it means when you heat your stove and what it means when you burn your stove badly, we're going to discourage people from creating an environmental impact that we can prevent. That is why I am particularly committed to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u158	I'll let the Secretary of State continue her argument, Mr. Laçin. You've had your interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u159	I would like to correct something very briefly. I am not saying that people should start to burn less, I say: look at more sustainable alternatives. If there are, you have to use it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u160	You've made it clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u161	If Mr Laçin says 'we have to discourage people who already have a stove', then I can only read it as a complicated message for people who use such a stove as heating, unless you want people to switch completely to a different kind of heating. That's why we're evaluating now. Maybe you should add new things. Mr Laçin whispered the word 'gas', but I think we are also carrying out whole debates on the Netherlands. We see each other that in the future we have to do this differently. I do not think Mr Laçin's intention is to encourage people to return to gas.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u162	We're not doing anything outside the microphone. Mr Laçin knows that very well. You don't have to respond to that, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u163	I'm just saying it's a complicated discussion. The CDA asked about chimney fires. How do people burn safely? There is a ladder of responsibility. Of course, people are primarily responsible for having their chimney wiped properly when they burn a stove in their home. You also need to install the stove properly, otherwise there will be risks. It is important that people receive good advice when buying a stove and that the stove is properly installed. It is also important that people know that a fireplace is better than a fireplace in that respect. There is indeed also a link with fire insurance. It requires you to have your chimney wiped once a year; that's what I had myself in a previous house. This allows you to avoid some problems, but it is really important that people make sure that the stove is properly installed according to the right instructions. That's not even a question of whether you do it yourself or let an installer do it. I told you, that's part of the investigation. The proper sweeping of the chimney is really very important. Many insurers therefore have this in the terms and conditions. Mr Ziengs asked for it. If something goes wrong, you have to be able to prove that you've had your chimney wiped. What does the Secretary of State think about the introduction of a wood-free neighborhood? That's what Mrs. Dik-Faber asked. The province of Utrecht has included this as a pilot in the implementation programme of the clean air agenda. I'd like to follow the results of that investigation. Municipalities can do this local. The municipality of Utrecht is doing it. The pilot will be evaluated by the end of 2020. That is the possibility for municipalities and the province of Utrecht does it. The CDA has asked what measures municipalities can already take. The Building Decree prohibits residents from spreading smoke and soot in an annoying or harmful way. The municipality is authorized to maintain this, but then I'll come back to the beginning. It's still hard to measure. That is why it is so important that we use TNO's measurement method to give municipalities an instrument to maintain this. I'm taking this with me in the Clean Air Agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u164	There is a question for you on this point from Mrs Dik-Faber, who is coming from behind the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u165	Measuring is of course very good, but you have to have a standard on the basis of which you can determine whether what you measure is a exceedance or a failure. So are standards being developed, too? And should it be rural or should it be local, because a city is something other than a rural community?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u166	I'm asking TNO to work that out. I also said earlier that you cannot apply one national standard, because it is quite different when you are in a densely built environment rather than in a rural community. So the question I asked TNO is how to give a municipality a handle to actually determine whether or not there is a nuisance. I await TNO's answer to that, but I understand that Mrs Dik-Faber says: it must be manageable for the municipalities, otherwise they will have little use for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u167	That is indeed my call. I read in several places, including the Secretary of State's letter, that there must be measuring instruments. Of course, that is very important, but you do want to have standards, because without standards, you cannot properly interpret what you measure. I now understand from the Secretary of State that TNO is mainly working with this standard and with the measuring instruments. In my view, this is the overall package with which municipalities can move forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u168	The point is that what TNO is now developing is going to give an indication of how you can determine "that's the question that we have asked "if there is any odour nuisance'. This may be different in a rural municipality, for example because the distance between the houses is different from that in a densely inhabited urban environment. TNO is therefore in the process of answering that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u169	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u170	What means do municipalities have to maintain? What can be done under the APV? In the APV, municipalities may include measures to limit wood smoke. Municipalities have a choice of their own; they are not obliged to do so, but they can do so. I understand by now that in almost all APV's there was also the question of how many APV's it would be then, something about wood smoke has been included. However, what the municipalities include must fall within the scope of the APV. In short, it is about what people and companies can and cannot do in their environment because of public order and security. That is what can be done in the APV and that is why connection to that TNO research is so important. How many rules can be set was indeed a question from D66. Not everything can be within the APV. That is also true, but I think that by determining when there is a nuisance, we have a good way of getting to work in the places where it is a notorious problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u171	It is good to hear that in many APVs there are in any case brackets to maintain if there is later a measurement method and possibly a standard. I'm still wondering. If a resident calls because he's a nuisance, will someone like that get a serious help? Ultimately, of course, it is generally a matter of people reporting because their neighbor or neighbor is burning. Of course, such a person must be taken seriously and D66 wonders if there is any insight into whether there is really serious policy for it in municipalities. For example, is there consultation with the VNG to see if it is high on the list among municipalities to take this seriously?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u172	This will probably vary from one municipality to another, because the problem varies from one municipality to another. In all reality, it will thus differ by municipality. As soon as we develop this methodology and give municipalities an additional tool to assess whether or not there is a real nuisance, we are going to help municipalities. And that is another time for municipalities to get it higher on the agenda. In that respect, I share Mrs Van Eijs' concern. People who are really in a nuisance situation want to know that the government is there for them. In this case, that is primarily the local government, but I share with Mrs Van Eijs the importance that there is at least a listening ear to that government for the problem that people sometimes struggle with every day.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u173	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u174	In my view, I have given most of the answers to questions about municipalities. Another question was asked about the bonfires. It is really a local consideration whether the municipality believes that this can be allowed or not from the point of view of public order and security and the protection of the living and living environment. The APV is indeed the place where this is or is not allowed. That discussion is also really a local discussion. Mr. Chairman. Then there are a number of almost other questions, so to speak. I could indeed have mentioned, as I did at the beginning, that only untreated wood should be burned and that is laid down in the Environmental Management Act. As far as biomass is concerned, I do think it is important that we realise that the amount of biomass available is limited and that we should also set good sustainability criteria for the biomass we use. As part of the draft climate agreement, it has been announced that we are setting sustainability criteria for biomass. I would also like to look together with the industry at how this can be applied to wood in wood stoves. The sustainability of biomass is therefore absolutely a focus. Then the Clean Air Agreement. This debate was requested a year ago. A number of steps have already been taken. That is of course also because I am always taking stock of what we can do as part of the Clean Air Agreement. You have received a sneak preview, so to speak, of the measures that will come back to you. Then you will tell me: you have already announced that. Then I'm going to say, yes, you would have asked before I came up with the Clean Air Agreement. I also expect further advice from the platform, as I said at the beginning. I also want to be able to look at those opinions and see if there are any parts in them that we can include in the Clean Air Agreement. When assessing these opinions, they are always impact, effectiveness and acceptance criteria that are important to me. Mr President, I think I have come to the end of the reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u175	I'll take a look at the Chamber to see if that's true. That's right. I was thinking about a number of subjects, such as certification, but I probably missed that. I shall then give the floor to Mrs Teunissen as the first speaker in the second term for her questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u176	Mr. Chairman. Even for the VVD, ISDE subsidies on heaters must be unsustainable, because even if you like a fire, it must be top-shelf liberals to waste thousands of euros of subsidies on unsustainable and unhealthy heaters. A very simple measure is to discourage firewood or at least not to encourage it with public money and not to promote it as a state government anymore. That's why I'm filing the next motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a variety of harmful and/or carcinogenic substances are released from wood stutter;]] [[noting that the Health Council and the Long Fund are calling for active discouragement of private forest fires;]] [[Whereas the subsidy for the purchase of pellet stoves and biomass boilers is therefore no longer desirable;]] [[calls on the Government to abolish subsidies for pellet stoves and biomass boilers as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that on the government website the burning of wood pellets is considered "climate-friendly";]] [[Whereas the combustion of wood pellets releases more CO than fossil fuels;]] [[Whereas, in the case of wood pellets, fine dust is also released;]] [[Whereas the burning of wood pellets can lead to deforestation and loss of biodiversity;]] [[calls on the government no longer to regard the burning of wood pellets in the communication of the government as climate-friendly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Teunissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28089-100]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Teunissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28089-101]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u177	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u178	Thank you. Mr Van der Lee van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u179	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for replying. I wish her every success. I do have a few additional wishes, but there will be more times to discuss them, especially if this motion receives a positive opinion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Government intends to combat and take action to combat nuisance and health damage caused by wood smoke;]] [[calls on the Government to make these measures a structural part of air quality policy and to evaluate its effectiveness annually and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van der Lee. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28089-102]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u180	Then the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that burning in stoves and fireplaces of painted or preserved waste wood still occurs, that this type of wood is also presented as cheap fuel and that many toxic substances are released into the air;]] [[calls on the Government to develop effective regulations prohibiting and preventing the sale and use of unsuitable wood as fuel,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van der Lee. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28089-103]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u181	We have already debated this through interruptions. I imagine you'd think of offering wrong wood as an economic crime. Then you have a different form of enforcement than at local level. I'd like that looked at. I think it is important to act against this, but also that it could play an important role in raising awareness and providing information if this were to happen. I hope to receive a ruling from the Chamber on that too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u182	Thank you. As the third speaker, I give the floor to Mr Laçin of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u183	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. One thing that will not surprise you is the approach to information campaigns. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Secretary of State wishes to improve information on the health aspects of wood smoke;]] [[noting that this will indicate better ways of burning and weather conditions that will cause smoke to linger;]] [[Whereas the energy account for households is increasing and the sale of woodburning stoves will therefore increase;]] [[Whereas wood-burning wood is not sustainable and is accompanied by air pollution and health damage;]] [[calls on the Government to focus on the discouragement of wood-burning in information campaigns;]] [[calls on the Government to focus information campaigns not only on current owners of woodburning stoves, but also on potential buyers of woodburning stoves and the general public,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28089-104]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u184	Then there's the second motion. The Chamber, heard the debate, noting that emissions from woodburning stoves are a national problem; noting that many general local regulations provide that the cause of nuisance by fire baskets, for example, should not be allowed; noting that many municipalities have difficulty in underpinning the concept of "obstacle" which makes it difficult to impose a ban; Whereas the current form of supervision and enforcement is not working; Whereas it is undesirable that supervision and enforcement vary from one municipality to another in the case of a national problem; calls on the government to examine, together with local authorities and ILT, which national measures can help to develop an enforcement method that does work, and goes to the order of the day. The President shall: This motion was tabled by Mr Laçin. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She's getting No. 105 (, 30175).
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u185	Finally, I would like to make a comment. In the debate, as far as I am concerned, a number of parties have shown that they do not take this problem very seriously. Let's face it, there's no such thing as sustainable burning. Either way, it's polluting. As a government, let's start to discourage that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u186	Thank you. Mr Van Aalst does not need a second term. Mrs Van Eijs of D66 did.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u187	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for her reply. I am pleased to hear that various measures are being taken in the field of resource policy, but I would like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the emissions of woodburning stoves cause nuisance;]] [[Whereas resource policy is an effective means of tackling nuisances in the areas of water, air and noise;]] [[Whereas source policies such as filtering and regular maintenance, sometimes required abroad, seem to contribute to reducing nuisance;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate and experiment with how and to what extent nuisances of wood stoves, fireplaces and all-purpose burners can be reduced by means of source policy and to include examples from abroad,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Eijs and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-28089-106]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u188	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for replying. There's one more topic that still bothers me a little bit, and that's the large number of chimney fires. I have considered tabling a motion, but in fact I would like to leave it with a request to the Secretary of State to take action to reduce that number. I ask the Secretary of State for creativity in the way in which she does this and at least to contact the industry, so that at some point we can come up with a sound plan of action to reduce these chimney fires. There must be a whole package of measures, we all know that. There must be prevention at the front. The Secretary of State has already said that this will also be her commitment. So my request is a whole package of measures to at least reduce chimney fires, some 2,000 a year. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u189	Thank you. Mrs Dik-Faber does not need a second term, nor does Mr Ziengs. Then I propose to suspend ten minutes, until 10:45 p.m., so that the Secretary of State can give the motions an appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u190	I'll resume the meeting. The Secretary of State is back a little early, but I see the members are already inside and so we can just get to work. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. Mrs Teunissen's 100 is ahead of the evaluation I have already announced, so I would advise against that motion. Then the motion to part No. 101. I have had an extensive exchange of views with Mrs Teunissen on adapting communication and I have also indicated to her that I do not see it as black and white. So I'm also dissuading the motion in part No. 101. Then the motion to part No. 102 by Mr Van der Lee on structural monitoring and evaluation. I am also, of course, curious about the effects of the policy, so I will leave this motion to the House. We're going to include it in the regular reports, but of course we'll include this as well. I have already indicated to you that the measures will also come back in the Clean Air Agreement, and then you will want to monitor what that results in. So the motion in part No. 102 is Judgment Room. The motion in part No. 103 calls for effective regulation prohibiting the sale and use of unsuitable wood as a fuel. I understand what Mr. Van der Lee is referring to and it's triggering me. Right now, we have a legal provision that focuses on the one who burns. Somehow that also feels uncomfortable when you consider that garbage is offered everywhere and people may not know it. I see only major problems in maintaining what Mr Van der Lee is asking here. So I have to dissuade this motion, but it has triggered me and I am going to think about whether we can think of something that is effective, enforceable and so on, in order to prevent people who are actually benevolent from being offered shit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u192	Thank you, Secretary of State. What if I replace the word "develop" with "research"?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u193	No, because I don't know at all whether it really needs to be the regulation or where exactly we need to find the point of reference. But this point has triggered me. Perhaps Mr Van der Lee can also say that he is holding the motion. I'm fine with that, too. I'm gonna take a look at it, but I can't promise it's gonna be regulation. Of course, we're also looking at other things. Anyway, I was triggered and that's why I didn't just want to dissuade the motion. I thought that was a little bald, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u194	Then I advise her or, no, I arrest her. It's a little late, but I'll take this motion. Then I'll wait for the Secretary of State's work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u195	At the request of Mr Van der Lee, I propose his motion (28089, 30175, No. 103). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u196	Thank you. I am glad that my work is not discouraged by Mr Van der Lee. That would be a shame, wouldn't it? Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 104 by Mr Laçin. I think we have exchanged this extensively, whether we should really focus on discouraging. I do not agree with Mr Laçin. His second request is to focus the information campaign not only on the current owner, but also on potential buyers and the wider public. I'm gonna do that anyway. I do not recommend this motion, but on the second request Mr Laçin and I wholeheartedly agree. I would also like to say to him that we will make sure that he sees that in the campaigns we are going to do. He's got a point right there. Then the motion to part No. 105 by Mr Laçin. I'm working on a measurement method, and that's step one. I'd like to bet in the SLA on exchange of best practices. The Wood Smoke and Health Platform can also participate in this. I dissuade the motion as defined, but I have already indicated what I intend to do and I want to work that out first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u197	Mr Laçin, for a clarification question on his motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u198	Yeah, about the first motion of my hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u199	That's the one in part No. 104.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u200	Yeah, my motion to part number one. 104. I find it strange that we do not discourage a form of burning that is not sustainable as a government and that we simply do not make a conscious choice. This means, for example, that we use campaigns that we are or are going to conduct, information campaigns, only to raise awareness and not to discourage them. I find that a very strange approach, especially from this greenest cabinet ever.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u201	That debate has taken place. What is your question regarding this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u202	I would ask the Secretary of State to look at this differently and still discourage what is not sustainable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u203	I think I have had this debate and I stand by my judgment. The motion in part No. I did not recommend Mr Laçin's 105. Then I come to the motion on part No. 106 by Mrs Van Eijs, in which the government is invited to investigate and experiment with how and to what extent nuisances caused by wood stoves, fireplaces and all-purpose burners can be reduced by means of a source policy and also by looking abroad. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. Then Mr von Martels asked me a question. He really raised something: the 2,000 chimney fires. He is right to ask for action and to see if we can reduce that number. That is not only with me, but we also need to talk to, for example, the fire department, the industry and the Platform Houtrook. So I say to Mr von Martels that I will talk to my colleague from BZK about this. Building regulations could also play a role. I understand his ambition to bring that number down and I am willing to discuss it with the various parties. I will come back to the Chamber on that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u204	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u205	Mr President, that brings me to the end of the reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u206	That concludes the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-16-tweedekamer-7.u207	Voting on motions for resolutions will take place next Tuesday, 22 January. I wish everyone a good night.
