ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u1	Let us now turn to Mr Wassenberg's question on behalf of the Animal Party to the Secretary of State for Infrastructure and Water Management about the report that Chemours must recover tonnes of GenX waste from Italy after an environmental scandal. We wait for a moment, because the fishermen in the public gallery are going back home. Lots of good luck. It was a unique experience that fishermen were present at oral Question Time. Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u2	Mr President, I have been able to use this time by adjusting the seat to my height, because Mr Weverling is a few inches longer than I am. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, we have to talk about Chemours and GenX again. I will praise the day that GenX and Chemours will not be in the news every day or every week because of the poisoning of the environment, the water, the air, but for the time being it is hit again every few weeks. Now the company's in the news because of the pushing with 15,000 kilos of GenX contaminated waste. That waste was supposed to go to Italy, but it didn't go through because of the bankruptcy of the waste processor. That company went bankrupt after an environmental scandal with a damage account of 136 million euros. Then you'll see about which partners Chemours does business with. But we also read that the waste is not allowed in America, where Chemours also has a factory. If the mess can't go anywhere, it goes to the dumpster and that's, unfortunately, I have to say, again Dordrecht, at the company itself. Province and inspection permit storage in a residential area. Residents are incredibly worried. My first question to the Secretary of State is: can it prevent or prohibit storage in a residential area? On what basis does the county and the inspection base themselves when they say that storage can be without risk? Because there isn't even a definitive agreement on those GenX exposure standards. The emissions of GenX by Chemours now occupy several municipalities and provinces and now Italy. The United States has a role to play, because the waste cannot or cannot go there. It is now a global problem. How can the Secretary of State insist that this is primarily a provincial matter? What can the Secretary of State do to prevent us from being back here in a few weeks?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u3	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I share Mr Wassenberg's view that I will praise the day when we no longer have to talk about Chemours, but until then, I think, it is good that we are keen on each other. It is good to be clear where we stand on the subject of the article. The recovery of the GenX waste from Italy is a mandatory act under EVOA legislation. Chemours is no longer able to recycle the waste stream in Italy and must therefore look for a different way of processing. The waste stream to the US written about in the media is another waste stream, with a different composition, but both streams have always been subject to an ILT licensing pathway, in accordance with the EVOA rules. So now that it can no longer be sent to Italy to be processed there, the company must, according to the rules, take back this amount of waste and look for a new treatment. For this there is, for a time, no choice but to give the company the opportunity to store it somewhere. There's a permit for that. DCMR and the province of Zuid-Holland are the competent authorities. They have, of course, carefully examined the conditions under which and for what time you will then allow that company to find a new processing path. There are different processing paths. The transport to the United States is a path followed by the company and otherwise there is also the path of combustion in Antwerp. So there are different paths. Now that this company has gone bankrupt, a situation has arisen in which a new path has simply to be sought. A global problem? I believe that we need to ensure that these substances are handled carefully worldwide. The Netherlands is also actively committed to this. That is what we do in the Netherlands, and that is what we do in the European context, where we ask for attention to be paid to those worrying substances. But now it's actually about a stream that's well documented and where we're on top of each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u5	The Secretary of State is not going to answer all my questions, because one of the issues that I am very concerned about and which the residents are very much concerned about is that we are talking about a very worrying matter. Officially, he is not yet on the official list of very worrying substances, but on the list of potentially very worrying substances, because everyone can actually feel with a little chemical knowledge on his clogs that this substance is not right and that it is only a matter of time before he is on the final list. It is now going to be stored in Dordrecht, in the middle of a residential area, while that substance is still on that potentially very worrying list of substances. But what happens when it's decided, which I can just imagine, that it's a very worrying substance? What about those exposure standards? Does the Secretary of State understand that the residents and the surroundings are extremely concerned about this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u6	But Mr Wassenberg pretends that only the waste will bring this substance to justice there. Of course, that's not true. This company processes those substances and this waste is also released. That is why it is right that we are all on top of it, and that is why we have managed to bring these emissions down, because we are now very keen on them together. But it's not because of that garbage that that dust now ends up in that place. This company is also under close attention. Once again, there is every reason to do so, and we have regular discussions about this. Conditions for the storage of these substances are also laid down by the Province and DCMR, the competent authority. The intention is, of course, to put an end to the fact that waste must be stored there, which can actually be incinerated or recycled elsewhere, so that incineration or landfill is not necessary. And on the subject of the ZZS, I apologize, Mr Wassenberg is very well aware that we have talked about this on a regular basis and that I am committed to getting this substance recognised as ZZS. That is what we are doing in Europe; the Netherlands has a dossier for this in preparation. Mr President, so Mr Wassenberg knows that I am very keen on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u7	My criticism is also that this substance should not be included in the list of potentially very worrying substances. It could happen that it will be on the list of very worrying substances within the next few months and a few months. What about the storage unit? What about any exposure standards? Indeed, the emissions of GenX have been reduced by Chemours, but we are talking about the unplanned storage of 15,000 kilos of waste in a residential area. I haven't had an answer to that. I also wanted to ask the Secretary of State because the problems with storage, transport and processing are increasing. Is it possible that the Netherlands bans the production of GenX as long as there are no good structural solutions, for example, when it comes to the storage or treatment of GenX, or the waste product in any case?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u8	Indeed, the fact that the factory in Italy, where this product would be processed, went bankrupt is an unforeseen circumstance. That is why an unforeseen permit is needed to store this material somewhere temporarily, because the Netherlands is obliged to take it back. So the bankruptcy of that Italian company is indeed an unforeseen circumstance. The permit will carefully examine the conditions under which this can be stored safely temporarily. The possibility offered to a company to find an alternative solution is also subject to a time limit. Mr. Chairman. Mr Wassenberg knows that it is still a potential ZZS at the moment, and that I am making sure that we also identify all kinds of risks for these potential ZZS. This is precisely to give the competent authority, even if the substance is only on the list of potential ZZS, every opportunity to lay down conditions in the permits. So to the fact that it is on that list, I am actually proud in that sense, because that means that we are keen on it and that through the inclusion on that list we also give the competent authority opportunities to impose additional conditions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u9	Before you finish, Mr. Wassenberg, it's incredibly noisy here. I can hardly follow anything, so the request is to sit a little still. I call Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u10	Then let me ask my very last question. The Secretary of State and I share our concern about GenX and we both want it to be included on the list of very worrying substances as soon as possible. The residents in Dordrecht don't get very much out of it. They see now that there's gonna be 15,000 kilos of garbage in their neighborhood. What can the Secretary of State do to guarantee those residents that their health is not compromised by the storage of that waste contaminated with GenX in their residential area?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u11	The conditions set out in the DCMR permit must ensure this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u12	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Wassenberg. Mrs Kröger has a question on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u13	We really share the concerns about the fact that there is again a fuss about the production of GenX and around Chemours, and about the fact that there is now no conclusive waste management plan. We are talking about a potentially very worrying substance and there is an incredible amount of unrest in Dordrecht and surroundings. My question to the Secretary of State is twofold. On the one hand, I would like to ask whether she can inform the Court of Justice of how we are going to arrive at a genuinely close management plan for those waste streams, where recycling is at the heart of the matter, and not incineration. Secondly, I would like to ask whether the Secretary of State agrees that she is talking to the province to make this waste management plan a condition for a permit for the production of GenX.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u14	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u15	It can't be that your GenX, a potentially worrying...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u16	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u17	...to produce dust without having a plan on how to deal with waste.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u18	Mrs. Kröger, everyone has 30 seconds and everyone gets over it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The bankruptcy of that Italian company is not something you can directly charge Chemours yourself. But this has created a problem for which a final solution has indeed to be found. It is therefore up to the province as competent authority to impose conditions on the extent to which such waste may be temporarily stored on that site. They also set a time limit for this. But I would be happy to provide further information to the Chamber together with the province.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-4.u20	Thank you.
