ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-3.u1	We now turn to Mr Weverling on behalf of the VVD for his question to the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality about a possible total ban on pulse fishing. I would like to welcome the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's a black week for Dutch fishermen. Day in, day out, they go out to the sea to do their job. It is hard work, hard work that we Dutch people traditionally do and what we are also good at. The fish we have on our plate, that harinch by the cart or those mussels at a beach tent; they are all taken out of the sea by these heroes. Many of us are sitting in the gallery today. Our fishermen provide not only fresh fish but also prosperity. Money is simply being made for the Netherlands. Like I said, we're good at that, so good that we've developed a wonderful new way of fishing. The pulse technique is a Dutch invention. I'm proud of that. It is not only effective but also extremely sustainable, but Brussels is showing itself on its worst side. Tomorrow, most likely, the canvas will fall for pulse fishing. Dutch fisherman men and women get a blow in the face as a thank you for their hard work. Mr. Chairman. At the request of the Chamber, Mr Veerman has spent the last few months trying to save what was to be saved. Or, as it has been mentioned in the press in recent days, the worst lobby ever. This when it was so necessary. It was difficult to fight against all the lies of environmental organisation Bloom and the anti-innovation mentality of other European countries. My question to the Minister is: how could things have gone so wrong? An outsider might think: what made it possible for both the Minister and Mr Veerman to make a dent in a packet of butter? This is the time to stand alongside the fishermen and not against them. I would like to ask the Minister to give us the latest state of play on the decision that is likely to fall tomorrow. Can the Minister offer the Dutch fishermen hope? Can it also specifically address what else can be arranged for Dutch fishermen, for example by means of a transitional period? What's the Minister's campaign plan? How is she going to ensure that innovative Dutch fishermen can continue to fish in the future? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you. Then I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the Members of your Chamber for giving me the opportunity to speak about something that has awakened many families lately. Some of those people are also here in the gallery. I have also spoken with some of them on a regular basis over the past period. I know there's this uncertainty and it's making a big change for all those families. I understand that very well, because it is not easy to understand what is happening now. Mr Weverling asks: what is the state of affairs now? The state of affairs is that a so-called trilogue will take place tomorrow. In Europe, the European Parliament, the Commission and the Council are discussing a legislative proposal which includes pulse fishing. I cannot, of course, anticipate what will be decided tomorrow; I do not know yet. Only, I have to be realistic too: it doesn't look good. It does not look good in the sense that there is the possibility of a ban on pulse fishing. Let me put it this way: I, and not just myself but the entire cabinet, would find it extremely regrettable if that were to happen. Because why did we do this? Pulse fishing was a technique that actually brought together the best of both worlds. It was durable... It is sustainable, it is good for the soil, it is good for selective fishing and it also reduces emissions. The fishermen can also make a good living from it. That was also the reason why the Netherlands believed in the technique and still believes in the technique and that many fishermen started using the technique. I think that's a good thing too. Mr Weverling asks: what is the plan now for the campaign? I must, of course, formally wait and see what happens tomorrow. I just know that we don't let the fishermen down. We will stand around the fishermen. I have just spoken to a few young people. I loved that incredibly. They were here while their father was working. They were here for their own future, and their future is also our future. The cabinet will remain around the fishermen. We will look at ways of achieving a transitional period if there is a ban. But we will also make innovation resources available to ensure that the next step is rethought. Because I know one thing, Mr President, and that is that fishermen have often had to overcome very high waves. They can. They did. They have done so in the past, they do so now, and they will do so in the future, with our help.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-3.u5	Thank you for the answers. It is frustrating and I also hear that frustration from the Minister. But isn't it unthinkable that something that is so durable should be levelled to the ground? I just can't imagine. Surely we cannot withdraw these 84 permits and let the fishermen go back from the pulse technique to the beam trawl technique, which is just bad for the subsurface and for the climate? We have a lot of discussions and this would be wiped off the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-3.u6	The fact that it is a very sustainable method of fishing is also reflected in the research carried out by ICES, the institute which always conducts research into TACs, among other things, but also on innovations and sustainability. ICES has indicated in the interim report that pulse fishing is a sustainable innovation. I have to deal with reality, too. The Netherlands will not just throw their heads in the lap, but at the same time I have to look ahead. I have seen in the past that almost the entire Chamber and the Cabinet were actually side by side with this method of fishing. We must continue to explore these possibilities in the future. We will. We will provide support for this from the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-3.u7	But then we are faced with a fulfilled fact, at least, that opportunity is very big tomorrow. What could have been better after that? Where else would we have done it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-3.u8	I think we can still have very big debates here on how things have gone in the past and in the more recent past and on what should have gone differently. I believe that there is also a request for a debate on this matter. What matters to me now is that we are now also showing each other to the fishermen that this cannot be the end of Dutch fishing and that we are standing there shoulder to shoulder to shoulder to avoid that. Indeed, we can all look back on what should have gone differently and how all this has come about. That will undoubtedly happen, but I think it is particularly important now to show that they are not alone and that we are also looking together for opportunities for the future for their industry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-3.u9	It is good to note that we are side by side with the fishermen. But it cannot be that we must invest immediately, so to speak, in order to destroy pulse fishing and return to beam trawling.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-3.u10	We will therefore also take several steps, first of all to see whether it is possible to achieve a transitional period for fishermen so that they can continue to do so. In the meantime, we look at the possibilities for other techniques, because we have to move forward. It's not like we have to go back in time in everything there is. There is a risk that this decision will result, but that is not the attitude of the fishermen. I know that, however difficult, they want to look forward. They can do that if we stand next to it and we also make innovation money available for it. One thing: Dutch fishermen have always been incredibly innovative. They have shown that in the past, they have shown that in the recent past, and they will be in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-3.u11	The Minister says we have to move forward. But apparently we just have to step back two more steps first. It is already such an uncertain time for fishermen: the Brexit, the landing obligation, the pulse fishing and the possible windmills in the North Sea. That's a lot of files that create a lot of uncertainty. We have to move forward, but we are just ahead in Europe and we are actually getting a slap in the face.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-3.u12	Nor was it my idea to limit or ban pulse fishing. There are different views on this in Europe. That, of course, is why we are here today and why fishermen have been in this uncertainty for so long. Again, let us show as the Netherlands that what we have always done, namely, are innovative, perhaps more innovative than the rest, will continue to do in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-3.u13	So we must once again show that we are the best boy in the class; that is what the minister says.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-3.u14	We must once again show that sustainability and a good earning capacity for fishermen can go hand in hand. We can show you that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-3.u15	Thank you, Mr. Weverling. Then I'll go to the Geurts on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-3.u16	There is a lot of talk in this Chamber about energy saving. Now we have about a hundred fishermen doing what we are talking about here. I really only have one specific question for the Minister. After the KLM, our swan, our pulse fishermen are now in danger of being turned upside down. I know that the Minister for Fisheries, Minister Schouten, is doing her utmost and is making extreme efforts, but I do have questions about the role of Prime Minister Rutte. Could Minister Schouten indicate what Rutte has done to his fellow minister in France in recent days to reverse this tide?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-3.u17	This discussion is, of course, not from the last week. More than a year ago, of course, the European Parliament voted in favour of a ban on pulse fishing. We came a long way then, because when the European Parliament agrees, you have to make a lot of efforts to make sure that you do something about it. I myself have spoken with incredible numbers of colleagues in Europe, with several Members of the Commission and also with Members of the European Parliament who were spokesmen for fisheries. Of course, these kinds of conversations often take place in the background. They're all not equal audiences. That goes for the whole cabinet. So this was not just a private matter for me. As a cabinet, we support the pulse fishermen, and this applies in broad terms.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-3.u18	Your second question, Mr. Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-3.u19	My group felt that this was so important that, exceptionally, I was given a second question. This shows the importance the CDA Group attaches to fishing. I asked the question: has the Prime Minister taken action in recent days, for example towards Macron? I can't get an answer to that. I think the Minister for Fisheries really knows what the Prime Minister did on her file. So once again, has the Prime Minister contacted France in recent days to ensure that this tide is reversed? 'Cause there it is. And if I may, Mr President, we also have a Commissioner, Mr Timmermans, from the PvdA House. Did the Minister have any contact with that? And what did he do?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-3.u20	As I have just said, I have spoken to a great many people on several occasions and have had contact with Mr Timmermans, our Commissioner in Europe. But if it is a fact that a majority of the EP, the European Parliament, and also a majority of the Council, i.e. the Member States, for political reasons, reject a method that is clearly more sustainable, we do not think that it is alone; that is also established in independent research, then those are discussions that you do not win equally. I have indicated that we have not been having this discussion since the last week; it has been going on for over a year, and several members of the cabinet have been working on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-3.u21	In fact, it is a shame that we must stand here defending the interests of our country, the interests of our fishermen, against the European Union, which, with a strange, strange, unmotivated decision, is threatening to destroy pulse trawling. As the Minister himself rightly pointed out, the EU is against the advice of ICES, an opinion usually followed by the European Commission. It's weird that that happens. My question is: what does the Minister now think of the EU's attitude and the sections of the EU? And doesn't this EU behavior in its assessment undermine confidence in the EU?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-3.u22	In a situation where, as I have just pointed out, a method of fishing is prohibited not on the basis of actual data but on the basis of political considerations, I cannot escape the impression that this does not increase the support for everything that is happening in Europe. That is a situation that is also occurring. I understand very well that the fishermen are going to do so, and perhaps that is true not only for the fishermen, but also for the larger ones, rather than asking why this is happening in this way, on the basis of political considerations. I cannot escape the impression that this does not increase the level of support for Europe.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-3.u23	Mr Bishop, second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-3.u24	In my question was also the element of a request to the Minister to give a qualification of the EU's action in this matter. I would add my second question. The Netherlands is a self-employed entity and has a self-employed responsibility. What happens if the Netherlands refuses to implement the decision in this form or if the fishermen refuse to obey the decision in this form?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-3.u25	Mr Bishop is now asking me to anticipate decisions that have not yet been taken. I think that's a complicated one, because tomorrow's conversation will take place. I'll study the outcome of that trilogue carefully. I will inform the Chamber of what I think of that, but I will not do that until I know what is going on and what we can put on the other side. But it cannot be unclear, I think, that I find it extremely disappointing when it comes to a total ban.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-3.u26	That information from the Chamber could take place this week?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-3.u27	I think it's gonna be early next week. We're gonna need a minute. It is a bit technical, Mr President, but there is also a Coreper on Friday. So there are some steps in the process, but I will send you your room at the beginning of next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-3.u28	I went to Urk on Friday and saw the despair of the fishermen. I talked to them. My group also considers it an incomprehensible decision if the pulse is to be banned. I think it is very nice to see this minister standing shoulder to shoulder with the fishermen and with the community on Urk. I know she goes there regularly to start the conversation. These fishermen can survive storms. I also hope that the House will be shoulder-to-shoulder with fishermen when they adopt our motion for a good transitional period. My question to the Minister concerns this. We have made innovation money available for the fisheries sector in the coalition agreement. When will the Chamber receive information about this? When can the fishermen make use of this money, because that is what it is all about in the end, so that there will be a new perspective for them?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-3.u29	Indeed, I have spoken regularly with fishermen from different fishing places. I will be on Urk myself tomorrow to go to the fishermen myself. Some of them have now come here. Then I find it a little difficult to go to them at least if there is a day when the tension can and will be great in the families. The concrete question about innovation money: it is true that the government agreement includes money for innovations. If I send the letter with the appreciation, my appreciation or my reflections on the decision that may be taken tomorrow, I will also inform the Chamber about how we deal with the innovation money and when it can become available.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-3.u30	The Netherlands is one of the largest net contributors to the European Union. This decision to ban pulse fishing, which may be taken tomorrow, is also totally unacceptable. What we should do is send out a very clear signal and say: if that ban comes, we will not implement it and if the Netherlands is fined, the Dutch State will pay it. You must stand up for the Dutch fishermen. You're gonna have to put your fist on the table and send a signal like that. That is the only language they listen to in Brussels. Maybe Rutte won't get his job anymore, but that's too bad for him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-3.u31	No, the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-3.u32	I have done nothing but stand in front of the fishermen for the past year. There's no light in there. In this sense, there is no light whatsoever between what most of this Chamber has asked the cabinet and what the cabinet itself thinks. There are not so many files on which you stand side by side as Chamber and Cabinet. It's been here for a while. I can't anticipate what's coming. I did say that we are not just gonna drop those fishermen. I didn't, and I won't in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-3.u33	Secondly, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-3.u34	The problem is they're all words. You say you stand up for the fishermen, but you are not prepared to make any real consequences of what you want. That consequence would be simply to say: "The Netherlands does not accept this. We are the largest net contributor to the EU. We are paying all these subsidies to southern Europe, and now southern Europe is going to kill our fishermen. We're just not gonna accept that. We're not implementing that ban. If there is a fine, the Netherlands will pay it if necessary. We then deduct them from everything we pay too much to the EU anyway." You have to say that. Then you stand up for the fishermen and not just go there and say: I am doing my best, I am doing my best. If there are no threats associated with your attitude, nothing will change.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-3.u35	I'd like to go through the chairman. So not to address the Minister with "you" but to speak through the President. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-3.u36	Mr. Chairman. We have made it very clear to Europe how we feel about this. There is really no ambiguity about what the Netherlands thinks of a possible ban on pulses. I have indicated that the fishermen can really count on our support. That's true at any time. This applies not only now, but also later when a new situation may arise. We have also made it very clear to Europe that this does not contribute to confidence in Europe, which is causing damage. We can understand that people find it incomprehensible what is about to happen here. There is no difference of opinion between what your Chamber may think of it or what the Cabinet thinks of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-3.u37	Mr Madlener on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-3.u38	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is making a complete fool of itself. I warned about the French several times a year ago. If the French want something in Europe, it happens. That's what I told the Minister. I said send Rutte, bet high, go connect files. Say, "We won't pay another dime if you go through with this." The Minister refused to listen to me. That's why I filed a motion in the Chamber. I said put Rutte on this file, make this chefsache because that works in Europe. No one supported me. None of the government parties who are now crying for the fishermen supported me at that time. They drop the fishermen hard and come here with fine words. There's no point in being the nicest boy in the classroom in Brussels. All those countries that say we can't do this are fooling themselves with European rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-3.u39	And now the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-3.u40	How can the Minister say that she did her best? Will Rutte be at the trilogue in Brussels tomorrow? Did he do his best?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-3.u41	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-3.u42	Mr. Chairman. The trilogue is not with Heads of Government, but with the representatives of Parliament, the Commission and the Council of Ministers. I just indicated that this really isn't a file... I have some difficult files, but I know one thing, namely that we have made an incredible amount of effort on this dossier. That is what the fishermen should expect from me. Let me be clear about that. I'll keep doing that. So there's no light between what the Chamber asks and the government's commitment. I have just indicated that this does not only apply to me, but that it is also shared more widely in the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-3.u43	Second question, Mr. Madlener.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-3.u44	Mr. Chairman. I will say it again: Brussels does not work that way. You gotta bet high. You gotta put your fist on the table. You need to bet the Prime Minister on this. The Minister knew that. Beautiful words won't get you anywhere! The Prime Minister has not taken any action at all. He has done nothing, and the Netherlands is sitting back and waiting for Europe to decide. All these countries don't do that. Do you think the French are so good to sit and wait for us? No, they'll take care of it themselves. You should have put your fist on the table and the government parties should have supported my motion to use this high. That was not the case, and that is why the government is dropping the fishermen as hard as they can.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-3.u45	This is the second time. I understand very well that this subject affects you directly, but it is really not the intention to applaud or otherwise show your approval or disapproval. Then I will go to Mr De Groot on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-3.u46	Mr. Chairman. This is a bizarre file with a bizarre twist: a beautiful tool that replaces the beam trawl is now suddenly banned. I believe that the Minister has done a great deal, but I am not getting the answer from the Minister as to what exactly happened. We want to plan a debate on this next week. The VVD will request this and we will support it. D66 would just like a factual account. How did Frans Timmermans work? How did the Prime Minister work? What activities have been undertaken to save this? And also the question: have we, the previous Cabinets, not been too creative with Brussels in the past? Because it is very easy to blame Europe here, and perhaps we ourselves have a little splinter in our eye.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-3.u47	To go into that last point, because I hear that more often: the European Commission knows and knows exactly how many permits we have issued. We just passed that on. That wasn't something we did in secret. At the same time, the Chamber itself has always called for opportunities to use pulses more widely, because it is a technique in which the best of both worlds come together, as I just said. Think of the sustainability side, but also of an economic future for our fishermen. So this is something that a large part of the Chamber, not everyone, has to admit, if the cabinet has gone for it, precisely in the interests of those fishermen, because we believe in it. I also hear Mr De Groot saying that he still believes in this technique. He's asking for a factual account. We can give facts, but I would also like to point out that there are not always discussions before the stage, so that you can have some effect. I'd like to give as much information as possible to the Chamber. That is not a problem at all, but with this limitation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-3.u48	50PLUS has been to Urk, has spoken with mayor and fishermen and has heard how many families this affects. The Minister talks about overcoming high waves over shoulder to shoulder, but those fishermen do not eat bread from them. Is the government going to compensate these fishermen for the damage they've suffered?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-3.u49	I've just indicated the tracks we're following. Should there be a ban... Again, I cannot anticipate it, although I want to be realistic in it. On the one hand, we are committed to a transitional period for fishermen as long as possible. Then we can also use that time to realise innovations, which will enable them to cope with that future. The cabinet also makes money available for this. I have just indicated that in the letter I will send to the Chamber at the beginning of next week, I will give more clarity about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-3.u50	I'm a little surprised at the words that are being used now. Mr De Groot says that this is a bizarre turn of events. The minister says it wasn't her idea to ban pulse fishing. But she knew that Europe was not here, let me put it mildly, and that pulse fishing was forbidden. The Dutch Cabinets have equipped dozens of fishermen with research permits. So the minister knew this was coming. Does the Minister recognise that the government simply dropped the fishermen by equiping them with permits that are not really good? Because they weren't research ships, it was just commercial fishing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-3.u51	These licences were issued with the knowledge of the European Commission. There's research going on. I have also referred to a study that we have produced which stresses the importance of sustainability and sustainable innovation, and which states that pulse is. ICES has concluded that. So there is research going on. I must admit that the Party for Animals has always been against pulse, but the Cabinet and a large part of the Chamber still see the benefits of this. I understand that very well, because this is a very innovative method of fishing. Mr Wassenberg says that the cabinet could have known that these permits would be withdrawn. A good year ago, the European Parliament voted for this, but the Commission had not indicated that it was illegal or that it should not. That was out of the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-3.u52	Second question. Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-3.u53	Well, let me just focus on that alleged investigation. I recently read a report from 2005, 14 years ago. That was also about the research into pulse kor. It was said that some cod break their backs through that pulse trawl, but we do not yet know exactly how often this occurs. Those questions have still not been answered in 2019. Fourteen years of research with dozens of ships: I would argue that this is mainly commercial fishing. That research is not that big a deal, because the research questions of 14, 15 years ago are still before us. Can the Minister respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-3.u54	That research is taking place, and it is still taking place, because we want to gain more insight into it. That was the condition for the permits, and that is what we are complying with.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-3.u55	In my view, we have to recognise that pulse trawling is good for the fish. I therefore believe that the Animal Party should also be very enthusiastic about this. I support the request for a factual account made by Mr De Groot of D66, and I would like us to get it as soon as possible before the debate we are going to have next week as far as I am concerned. It is important to learn from the mistakes that have been made. Maybe I shouldn't say "mistakes" but "wrong interpretations." It is all scientifically substantiated, we have good, legitimate permits, but yet Europe is turning against us. We are an innovative country, so we need to learn from this to do better in the future. Can you take what has been done in that factual account so that before the debate we know what the lessons are learned and we can talk about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-3.u56	I have just said that I am prepared to send some kind of factual account to the Chamber, with the limitation I have just indicated. So I think I've already agreed to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-12-tweedekamer-3.u57	Thank you.
