ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-3.u1	I now give the floor to Mrs Tellegen, on behalf of the VVD, for her question to the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport, whom I would also like to welcome, on the report that the Minister is in breach of the law on sperm donors. I call Mrs Tellegen on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. You'll only be a 16-year-old teenager. You're in the most vulnerable phase of your life. You're happy in the family you grew up in, but still the interest in your biological father, your donor father, is starting to grow. You want information about him. Maybe you really want to know who he is, what he looks like, where he lives. So that way you understand a lot better who you are. Your self-image might be complete that way. And so you consult the registry where all the donor fathers can be found. You're gonna find your real father, but you're not gonna find him. You have a right to know who he is, but you can't trace him. How bad is it for a child when that happens? You just don't want to put a teenager through that uncertainty. Not for nothing therefore we have the Donor Data Act artificial fertilization. It is not for nothing that we have established the child's right to always be able to trace his or her biological father. Now, the second evaluation of that law shows that a few things are going badly wrong. The conclusions of the report are not easy. It is not certain that all donor children will receive information about their donor, which they are entitled to under the law. It is not checked whether the donor data registry is complete and whether the data is correct. The possibility for traceable sperm donors prior to 2004 to become anonymous goes against this law. The main conclusion is therefore that Minister De Jonge is acting in violation of the law. As a result, it is completely uncertain whether all children entitled to it will actually receive the information. Just a few questions. The Minister indicated that he would come forward with a response after the summer. How is the Minister going to ensure that the law is not violated as soon as possible and that the register is put in order and complete? Does the Minister have a picture of how many children are actually involved? Have all children or their parents been informed by the Ministry that this legal uncertainty has arisen? And more importantly, how is he going to make sure that the men who donated their sperm, but on second thought wish to remain anonymous, become traceable, so that those children can find their possible father?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-3.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr President. It is right that Mrs Tellegen stresses in particular the importance for everyone to know who he is and how necessary it is to remove the uncertainty that can exist in children, for example when they become 16 years old. That was the background to the 2004 Donor Data Act. The second evaluation shows a mixed picture. On the one hand, a number of things are improving, but there are also a few spicy conclusions which Mrs Tellegen also mentions. On two points it appears that this is not in accordance with the law, says the Committee of Inquiry. The first is on confidentiality. Even if a non-disclosure declaration has been signed, the donor's personal identity data must be recorded. This makes control and supervision more possible. The second point is actually the most fundamental one. This concerns the question of whether donors prior to 2004 who have indicated that they want to be known and are now being asked to disclose their data, would indeed have the opportunity to switch from known to anonymous. The committee says that this seems contrary to the spirit of the law, and the minister should consider this issue. I am indeed prepared to reconsider this issue. I would point out, however, that there has, of course, been a debate on this point earlier, and it is also part of a lawsuit that is currently under way, and that this interpretation of the law has been deliberately chosen, because the law, in the opinion of the Cabinet, so far makes no distinction between known and anonymous donors in the transitional regime. At the same time, of course, I understand how great frustration can be as a donor who has not previously signed a non-disclosure agreement and is approached with the question "would you like to make yourself known?', At that point, he says, "Well, I'd rather not." This may be allowed on the basis of the law, but is extremely undesirable in the context of the scope of that law. The fact that the committee has reached this conclusion gives me cause for legal advice on this matter once again. I want to do so by having my independent legal advice and using that advice in the policy response I will give to the Chamber after the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-3.u5	Evaluations are not just there; we carry them out to see whether a law is working or not. This is the second evaluation. The first evaluation of this law was already quite firm. A lot of recommendations from that initial evaluation have not been taken on board. Now we find here a second evaluation, which again draws rather firm conclusions. I understand that the Minister has a nuanced answer to that, but for a lot of children there is currently uncertainty as to whether they can find their father in the register at all. That register is apparently incomplete; that is the first problem. The second is that a lot of fathers were initially willing to be registered in that register by name and by name, but on second thought they would prefer to remain anonymous. The whole purpose of the law is precisely to give these children security. I would therefore like to call on the Minister to come to the Chamber with a response sooner than this autumn in which he indicates how he is going to provide more certainty and answers to those children who do not know what the situation is at present.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-3.u6	Kids who don't know what's going on can just apply to the foundation. The foundation has the task of getting the data up at the fertility clinic as soon as possible. The issue that Mrs Tellegen rightly points out is that there is a transitional regime in the law. That transitional arrangement does not distinguish between known and anonymous donors prior to 2004. From a legal point of view, it is not easy to overrule that situation. The donors of that time have become donors in the knowledge that it would remain anonymous, under those conditions. If you broke that, you'd actually change that legal situation with retroactive effect. Therefore, until now, the solution has been to approach all donors with that request. In fact, it has occurred a number of times that donors who had taken on their own had not signed a non-disclosure agreement for 2004 at the time when the request came, indicated that they wanted to remain anonymous. That's what's wrong, of course. That is contrary to the intention of the law, namely to break anonymity. Of course, that is painful for those who are concerned, but as I have interpreted the law so far, it is as the law explains. But the committee does not advise for nothing that this seems to be contrary to the intention of the law. That is why I think it would be good if I just followed the committee's recommendation on this point. The committee does not say: change that; change the law. No, the committee says: consider this matter again. That's exactly what I want to do. I would like to reconsider this issue in order to see whether we can bring implementation practice more into line with the intention of the law. There's a lawsuit going on, but it's taking too long. I will therefore have to reconsider this more quickly. For that, I will need independent legal advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-3.u7	You said that, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-3.u8	That is also why I did not react immediately with a policy response, but postponed it until after the summer. I think I really need that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-3.u9	I understand the minister, but I don't understand him either. Because this evaluation has not just been made; it has been asked for. And it is now the second critical evaluation. I understand that legal advice must be sought independently; it will all be so. But right now, for a lot of kids who might want to find their dad in that register, there's uncertainty about what's going on. How is the Minister going to make a gesture to these children in the shorter term than just this autumn: listen, I'm working on it, it's so many cases and this is what I plan to do? I want more action and I want faster action, because on the one hand I understand that this is a complex issue, but on the other hand I do not think that this evaluation is so softly written that you say: well, I am going to think about it again. No, it's very clear what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-3.u10	I would venture to doubt whether this can be said with certainty on the basis of this evaluation report. It says it seems to be contrary to the spirit of the law. I understand that, too; I just explained that. The recommendation is that I reconsider this matter. Imagine if I were to say to you this afternoon: fine, then we'll make all that data public. This also leads to court cases, in which the donor may be put in the right place, creating a new disappointment. Of course, the data should be on the table as soon as possible. Every child has the opportunity to check his pedigree. That's what the foundation is for; that's her job and it's doing it as soon as possible. That's what happens. But for this difficult issue of donors before 2004, I really need a little time to reconsider this issue. In doing so, I follow exactly what the committee recommends to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-3.u11	I would like to wholeheartedly support Mrs Tellegen on this point. This needs to be clarified as soon as possible. The Minister said "after the summer" but not exactly when. When can we expect it to look like this at least? And if it were to remain a twilight zone, even after independent legal research, would it not be a good thing, given the scope of the law, to choose for the benefit of the donor children?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-3.u12	I'm inclined to say yes to that question. I think I have just made that clear in the direction of Mrs Tellegen. Yes, I am indeed inclined to choose in line with the spirit of the law, namely breaking anonymity. That's what the law was meant for. At the same time, the transitional provision currently in the law does not distinguish between anonymous or known donors prior to 2004. In short, the authorisation requirement applies to all donors prior to 2004. The moment you break that, of course, you're risking lawsuits, and those lawsuits can have a disappointing outcome. What I do understand from you, and certainly from Mrs Tellegen, is that you say: do not spend months studying it; do so as quickly as possible and clarify it as quickly as possible. I want to do that too, but I also want to do it well and thoroughly, because a legal advice that you cannot then stand on and that does not stand up in court leads to further disappointment. So I want to do it carefully, but I'm not going to think about it for a day longer than is strictly necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-3.u13	I, too, stress the importance of speed and care. The Minister spoke about the transitional period. Donors then indicated that they wanted to be anonymous, where they hadn't reported it before. That was the situation around 2004. Even now, it is possible for donors to indicate for serious reasons why they still want to become anonymous. No one knows what these serious reasons are and no one knows who will find them. I find that extremely complicated. Isn't there anything more important than the importance of the donor children? That is my question to the Minister: does he want to put the importance of the donor children at the top of his response to this evaluation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-3.u14	The Minister. Concrete question, concrete answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-3.u15	Of course, I would like to say, because that was the aim of the whole law. The recommendations of the evaluation committee are certainly aimed at this. Of course, I want to take that as a guideline, precisely in my policy response. I will be glad to do so at the point you mention, namely what these serious reasons might actually be and what is more serious than the importance of a young person to know who he is descended from.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-3.u16	Kids just have a right to know where they come from. This requires a reliable register. In any case, it is a good thing that the Minister is going to look again at the legal weighting. However, it also appears that data is often not checked. In any case, that means that the register is not reliable. Englishmen would say: rubbish in is rubbish out. How is the Minister going to ensure that you can rely on the data that is being entered, and that you don't still have a problem 16 years later?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-3.u17	The evaluation committee points out one point, namely that confidentiality certificates are currently being registered without any person-identifying data, as it is called. In order to better organise the monitoring of the adequacy of confidentiality statements, the Committee believes that it is necessary to register the person-sidentifying data also in the case of confidentiality. Otherwise, your supervision will not be easy. The committee says that this point must be brought into line with the law. So that's where I have action to take. It will also, as I predict, be found in the policy response of the cabinet that we have a correction to make. By the way, a fertility clinic is naturally subject to investigation by the inspection.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-3.u18	The right to pedigree data is important. I don't think there's any discussion about that. But I understand that the Minister says that care is important and that what is possible should also be looked at. I therefore agree with the fine question of the Christian Union that speed is important, but should not be at the expense of care. I do have a question for the Minister. If he comes up with a reaction, probably after the summer, will he also look at the international experiences? The situation is of course very Dutch, but there are many countries engaged in making a battle from anonymous to non-anonymous donors. Maybe we can learn something from that. And perhaps the Minister is willing to include, for example, adolescents, who often have the need to know from whom they are descended, because also in the Netherlands there are distance parents and distance children. Can the Minister include this in his reflection?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-3.u19	Yeah, I'm sure I'd like to take international experiences with me. If you look at how the Netherlands relates to abroad, you can see that this is still not settled in a number of European countries. Can you check it out? But there will undoubtedly also be a number of international examples that we can learn from. That's what I'm happy to do. In the case of adoption, the FIOM is involved in the pedigree examination or assistance. That's the same organization involved in pedigree research in donation and donation histories. In short, I would certainly like to include that. Although it is on its own a different file, pedigree is the red line for this theme.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-3.u20	I hear the Minister taking responsibility for the deliberate nature of the law. I think there is a lot of thought in that, but I understand that he wants to think about it for a while. But not too long. However, the Minister is also responsible for the body that manages the register and implements the law. When I read the evaluation report, it scares me a lot. There's hardly any supervision and a lot of things don't happen. What is the Minister going to do to ensure that the foundation concerned complies with the law, as it is already in force? And are there any consequences of the fact that it's actually a bit of a slant, just to put it in English?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-3.u21	The evaluation committee is indeed also critical of the foundation, the implementation by the foundation and the supervision of the foundation. This means that, as Mrs Tielen says, we have to consult with the Foundation on this point and take action. I will come back to that too. I think that, given all the desires for speed but also the understanding for care, it is good if I promise to come up with a policy response by September at the latest, so that we can discuss the future further in the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-04-tweedekamer-3.u22	Thank you.
