ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-2.u1	We begin, as usual on Tuesday, with oral Question Time. Today we begin with Mr Wiersma's question on behalf of the VVD to the Minister for the Interior and Kingdom Relations, whom I would also like to welcome. The question is about the enforcement of the partial ban on facial covering clothing. I call Mr Wiersma of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-2.u2	Mr President, thank you. A ban on wearing face-covering clothing is a long-cherished wish of the VVD. Fourteen years ago, we first talked about it in this house, and last summer, last month, it finally went in. Because if you cover your face with a burka or nikab, but also with a balaclava or an integral helmet, then you lock yourself away from the other. You can't face someone recognizable. That just makes you feel uncomfortable and unsafe. It also works against integration, and that does not fit in with our open and free society. This new law is therefore a good first step for the VVD, a first step towards a total ban on wearing face-covering clothing in public space. This is therefore a very logical law. Or not, that's how I ask the Minister. Unfortunately, I have to ask that very deliberately. When the law was passed last year, there was still some time to think carefully and put all the points on the i in the implementation and implementation. The minister even took another seven months. Then I assume that all the obvious bumps have been fully considered and that we have solved them, that you make sure that municipalities work, that you make sure that the bus driver has a boss behind him, that the police are ready and not working against him, and that the minister has done everything he can. But after recent reports from Limburg this summer, I fear the worst. Does the Minister understand that fear? What about the transport obligation in the State Department? Apparently, you can't refuse someone who wears a burka. Is that right? Shouldn't we have known that in advance? And what about when I get on the tram with a fry of mayo? Then I can be refused, too. How's that? What about in a hospital? Do they also have a duty of care? And with the police, do they have an obligation to help someone with a report? 'Cause if it turns out that's how it works everywhere, we're back to square one. That's exactly what we didn't want and what we should have used that time for. So, what's the minister gonna do now? How did it happen and how are we gonna fix it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-2.u3	Then the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-2.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to Mr Wiersma for his questions. By the way, written questions have also been asked by several MPs to different rulers. We'll answer it soon; I think that's okay. This law has indeed been discussed for fourteen years. I thought it was thirteen years, but Mr Wiersma corrected me on that point. So the legal treatment has had a very long history. I was allowed to do the last part myself in the First Chamber. Some of the concerns discussed there were actually about what is now happening in practice. I say that in order to be able to really answer Mr Wiersma's questions. There has been a partial ban in certain areas where people meet and where it is indeed important that you can look at each other. So it's actually about human communication. It is about social security, that people must feel safe in the presence of other people. The law explicitly chooses to do so in a limited number of sectors, but also to invest enforcement explicitly with the police. Once the law was passed by Parliament, I said that it took time to discuss this properly with the sectors and to work it out properly in instructions. It concerns tens of thousands of workers in these sectors who need to know how to act in such a situation. That time has been taken. There has been extensive consultation with the sectors. That has translated into instructions for all those sectors, for all those employees. A specific implementation time was chosen, August 1, because of the two school years in between. The law has been in force since 1 August. We've been a month. I think we should note that people still have to get used to the law. The instructions are there, but now they need to be put into practice. This requires quite a lot of people working in health care, education, public transport. Mr Wiersma referred to this. Yes, they need to get used to it, but I am confident that these people on the ground can make the best assessment of what needs to be done. With the instructions in hand and in mind, they must act on the spot. They do so in all conscience, using the instructions. That something doesn't go well, I think we have to accept it. That's just part of the habit phase. It is precisely in those sectors that we are very close to it, and my colleagues in the cabinet too must be helped to do their job properly. They're there for the patients, for the customers, they're there for the children in education. That is their main task, their main objective, and they must be able to do so without being hindered by the new legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-2.u5	I'm listening to the Minister and I'm actually surprised. Yes, the Minister says that there are instructions, but there are just as many instructions, directives, for example in transport, that ensure that someone who thinks he is complying with the law, namely asking someone with a burqa to leave the bus, is turned upside down by his own employer with the message: that was not the intention. Then we just didn't do it right, did we? I hear the Minister say: yes, I did it, but if I see it now, it might be half work. Then I'm stunned, because we don't make up laws for that, do we? We're not setting a new standard for that, are we? This law, which has been democratically established, should have been so important that the directives, agreements with transporters, hospitals and educational institutions are as clear as possible, because the law is as clear as possible: the wearing of facial clothing is prohibited. You get the question: will you take it off? If you don't, you can leave, or we'll call the police. There's a fine on violation, clasp-and-ready. Is the Minister prepared to reaffirm the same clarity in the directives, including towards transport companies? That instruction should just be clear, but it's not now. Does the Minister recognize that? To recognize this point from each other and be able to address each other is very basic for the VVD. Mudling isn't one of them. You can only make a really good start once and we already have a false start. This can only be done by ensuring that municipalities actually maintain. This policy of tolerance violates the legal duty of enforcement. The question to the Minister is how she is going to ensure that municipalities do. Does she want to let it come to this, if it is really necessary, that there should be a court ruling, that we should say to the municipality of Amsterdam: it may be that you do not want to maintain, but it will happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-2.u6	No, I don't think there's any misunderstanding at all, either with the sectors, or with the municipalities and through the municipalities with the state's attorney's office and the police, if anything's going on. The law applies and must therefore be applied to the law and enforced. Do you mind if I go back to law enforcement? There has been extensive talk in both chambers. In both Chambers it was stated that this law should not lead to too hard or too ill-considered action, nor that this would cause problems for workers in these sectors. Finally, the law explicitly states that enforcement lies with the police rather than with professionals in health care, education and health care. Enforcement is with the police. The instructions, which have been looked at very carefully with the sectors, also look at them. We've been a month and seen what could happen. I think it is very important that we really keep to the agreements, to the law and to the instructions, and that we stand firm for the professionals, who sometimes have to weigh up. That may not be easy, but the law and the instructions provide sufficient guidance for that. I am convinced that, after this habit, we will be able to deal very well with what lies ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-2.u7	The Minister states that we must be very supportive of the professionals. However, in the light of the situation we were dealing with this summer, I would like to ask the following question. What if a bus driver says, "We have rules here. Of course, the police maintain and impose fines; I do not. But I do make sure people behave as the law says." Does he get the support he needs? Does it mean that too, I ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-2.u8	Absolutely, and I am glad that Mr Van der Staaij is saying that here too. 'Cause that's actually exactly what I'm talking about. Let us not put it down now with the individual bus driver or the individual employee in one of these sectors. We must lay it down with ourselves as legislators and with the sectors when it comes to instructions. Ultimately, it is about the functioning of the system. Then I think that the assessment made on the spot by the professional deserves support. Also in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-2.u9	I am speaking to the Minister when she says that this bus driver should enjoy support from all of us, but that is easier said than done. It starts with people dare to take this step because they know that the police may be the backup. I saw in the summer that the Minister himself had the police on his hands about the way in which they deal with it. So I have two questions for the Minister. One. Do you agree with the CDA that the police should never have said that what they were concerned with was not a priority? Then you'll put the ball with the bus driver. Two. Has the Minister used the weeks of this summer to make new appointments with the police? The police will eventually have to say: yes, from the outset we want to enforce this law if it is invoked. The Minister should have just made better arrangements about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-2.u10	I hesitate to say too much about the police, because then I will be sitting very much on my colleague's chair. But, of course, I have talked to Mr Grapperhaus about this. It's been discussed with the police and good agreements have been made with the police. It is clear from the law that enforcement can only be done by the police. It is always a bit difficult to go into specific cases, so you have to rely on the view as it has appeared in the media. I assume that every bus driver and every employee in public transport now knows what is expected of him or her, namely to appeal to the offender, but then try to ensure that other passengers do not suffer. That can also very well be done in consultation with the police. When Mr Van der Molen says 'these agreements should be even better', I say: I think the agreements are good, but they should be applied even better in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-2.u11	I hear the word "agreements" all the time. We have a law and it must be enforced. It's as simple as that. It's not about the one bus driver either. It's about all the cowardly Halsemas and in her wake about so many other cowardly rulers who don't want to enforce this law because they're afraid of Islam. Everywhere that Islam puts its nose around the corner, there is a difference in the receiving society. That's exactly what we see in this law. That is why I am asking this Minister: is she prepared, if necessary, to take the fist on the table with all those who should uphold this law and demand that this law be enforced?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-2.u12	Mrs Halsema is not participating in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-2.u13	No, Mr. Chairman, that's right. Actually, I've just explained what the law is like. The PVV has also agreed to a law that has enforced it with the police. In order for this law to work properly in practice, more is needed than just the enforcement at the end. It is also necessary for the sectors to have good agreements. It is also necessary for these sectors to give instructions to their employees. We all have to watch the entire system, and we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-2.u14	Mr Öztürk on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-2.u15	The Minister talks about police enforcement, but the AD article in which a ministry employee says that citizens can also enforce by arresting citizens shows that these women have fallen into a vulnerable situation. What is the Minister doing for all these vulnerable women, including those who walk around with no burqa and no nikab, but with a main suit? They will have comments about them. Many women feel unsafe in the Netherlands. What are you doing with this and what are you going to do about stopping this ridiculous situation that we have in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-2.u16	The most important thing for all the women who come into contact with it, and certainly those are the women you are talking about, is that they know very well what that law is like. The entry into force of this law has not gone unnoticed. Much has been written about it in the media, also in a good and factual way. So I think we can now expect everyone in the Netherlands to know that you are not allowed to wear facial clothing in health care institutions, in educational institutions and in public health. In communication about the law is the crux after all. As far as that AD article or anywhere else would have given the impression that people could go further in that, that they could take matters into their own hands, I have distanced myself from that. We have often distanced ourselves from this much wider and fortunately, in practice, this has not yet been demonstrated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-2.u17	Thank you.
