ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u1	The next item is the debate on the report on the general consultation of the police. I would like to welcome the Minister of Justice and Security. I call the first speaker: Mr Van Dam on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Today there was a story in the Algemeen Dagblad, het Haagse katern, about a police officer, a team chief from Midden-Leiden, who talked about the blue wall of silence within the police. A blue wall that you sometimes can't get through with your stories. I noticed that story. It is also not denied in that article; the police leadership recognized it. We have previously had the police's reputation monitor, which shows that the confidence within the police in a number of parts has decreased by 10% compared to last year. So it's about trust in the organization. We've been talking about PTSDs who regularly break down their organization. This may be partly because of the condition, but we know that there is a bureaucracy that people sometimes do not relate to. I have done my own research, which I have also put forward in the AO on integrity investigations. All that leads to the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the formation of the national police has created one of the largest government organisations, with over 60,000 staff, led by a single national body;]] [[noting that in a large organisation, despite all the good intentions of the management, individual employees may get into trouble;]] [[whereas precisely because police people experience "outside" daily insecurity, the "inside" must be safe;]] [[calls on the Government to give the existing Mispositions Unit within the Corps both physically and organizationally an independent, independent position,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Dam. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-877]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u3	A very small explanation. So I expressly do not advocate a hotline outside the police. I also abandoned the concept of 'ombudsman', because there are people there again. I sincerely believe that it is in the interests of the entire corps that such an independent point should be made within the organisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u4	The remark about the blue wall of silence is very familiar to me as a former police scientist. Among other things, I wrote about this myself, so that is a well-known concept. People shouldn't run into a wall of silence, I couldn't agree with you more. People need to feel safe to get rid of their complaints. They also do not want to be crushed in a bureaucratic system. But of course we do have a National Ombudsman, the National Reporting Point Misfires and the Department of Security, Integrity and Complaints. With your call, do you give these existing bodies some sort of license of inability?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u5	I have stated in my motion and also in my contribution to the AO that I think there are a lot of good intentions. I also think that no one wants people to be cut short. At the same time, however, I feel that in such a large organization, which was previously regionalized and which is now one national organisation, it is simply good if there is such an independent provision. With the armed forces, you have the inspector general who performs a function in that regard. That's not what I'm looking for. We recently saw at the D.A.'s office that it might also have been very sensible if there was something more internal in some sort of place. It's being pushed up now. I don't need to pass people licenses of inability at all. In fact, I read this and then I thought, "Hey, I used to be the blue wall people ran into. So nothing human is strange to me. I'm just trying to improve the police organization.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u6	I agree with you that people need to be able to tell their story. Of course, they should not be able to tell their story at too many counters. That's what I'm worried about. An evaluation study is already being carried out on the National Reporting Point Mispositions and also on the Department of Security, Integrity and Complaints. Would you be willing to await these evaluations?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u7	There are all kinds of confidants, you mentioned everything that's already there on..... but we just have to note that the staff of the corps leadership is completely encased in the current National Reporting Point Misfits. I've asked questions about that before. I had the answers read to someone. Several people who were there said: are there two hotlines within the police? They didn't recognize themselves in those answers and in what it should be like. So I myself am convinced that this really is a very valuable addition and that this does not lead to more fuss. You don't have to abolish the current one. Turn it over to this. So I'm not asking for anything extra. I'm just asking for a different accent and a different positioning.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u8	Thank you. Mrs Den Boer, it's your turn too. You're going to pronounce your term on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u9	Mr. Chairman. As has been shown in a number of previous debates with the Minister, the integrity of the police remains a focus, both within the borders of the Netherlands and across borders, in cooperation with the other European partners. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas integrity should be one of the key values of the police;]] [[Whereas police integrity is a focus of attention in all European Member States;]] [[considers it important to act with integrity by the police, so that all European citizens receive an equal level of protection, both within and outside the rules of the (international) legal order;]] [[calls on the Government to actively promote, at European level, the establishment of a binding code of ethics for police forces in line with the Code of Police Ethics of the Council of Europe, the United Nations (UN) and the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) and to inform the Court of Auditors on this matter for the 2020 budget process,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Den Boer and Mr Buitenweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-878]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u10	Furthermore, in November last year, I tabled a motion, which was adopted by the Chamber, together with Mr Laan-Geselschap and Mr Buitenweg, on an updated strategic vision of international police cooperation. We also called on the government to inform the Chamber in spring 2019. I would very much like to ask the Minister about this. Will the Minister, for example, quickly work on the deepening of cooperation with the Benelux partners? Is he keeping up with the joint investigation teams or the JITs? How's the liaison officer's policy going? That's the kind of question we're talking about. For example, will Europol remain our preferred channel? I would like to call on the Minister to quickly share a new vision with the Chamber, because spring is almost over. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u11	Thank you. There is another interruption by Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u12	I have a question for the D66 spokesman on police strength, because of course there is a lot of discussion about this. How much capacity do we have? It is often a question of whether or not we count the aspirants. My question is whether D66 still believes that aspirants are not actually 100% usable and that they should therefore be included in the figure of 0.4 FTE, i.e. 40%, as D66 said in 2016, when that party tabled a motion on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u13	Of course, this is a historic question. So I'm gonna have to go back in the story, too. In any case, through the coalition agreement, we are strongly committed to increasing police capacity. We also know that policemen in the Netherlands need to be trained very well before they are sent into the neighborhood or before they are sent across the border, as I have just said. So aspirants could be counted, but I don't think that's wise until they're fully trained.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u14	Is that enough? Do you have a follow-up question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u15	Yeah, both. The motion of the SP and D66 in 2016 was very sensible. It says that aspirants can be operational for 0.4 fte. In order to reflect the police strength fairly, in order to give a fair picture of it, you should also count them for 40%. So I really like that D66 thinks that it would still be best to clarify the police capacity we have in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u16	We will soon have a general consultation Police education and research. We are going to look again at this strength and its expansion. Is this expansion going to be fast enough? Can the police academy provide sufficient replacement? And how do we look at aspirants now? So I would very much like to look at this motion again. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u17	Thank you. I call Mr Van Nispen on behalf of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I want to move on to the subject where I left off. The Minister states that extra agents are coming in to partially absorb the large outflow of 17,000 agents. But as it turns out, the number of FTEs to cops isn't being reached. There's 674 fte less. When the minister talks about cops, it's mainly about aspirants. No one is born an accomplished cop right away. Those people need training. My appeal today is: do not count aspirants 100% in the police force, because they are not yet fully operational. I think that gives you a more realistic and honest picture. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that prospective agents are 100% included in the police force while they are not fully employable;]] [[noting that, therefore, the General Court of Auditors does not include prospective agents in the police force;]] [[believes that police figures should be reliable and represent reality;]] [[calls on the government to use the assumption that aspirants for 0.4 fte are operational in the calculation of the current police force and to report to the Chamber on the adjusted police strength figure,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Nispen and Van Raak. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-879]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u19	Today we read the emergency cry from the workplace and the police union about the shortages in the forensic search. Mrs Helder has rightly requested a plenary debate on this matter today. There are 1,500 people employed, but there are at least 4,500 people employed. In the newspaper we read that the minister wants to solve the problems by using innovation and 200 extra agents. That is a step in the right direction, but obviously not yet a solution to the problem. In order to go in the right direction, I will table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the importance of forensic detection is particularly great;]] [[noting that research shows that there is a lack of maintenance on people and resources in the forensic detection process which has resulted in a structural increase in pressure and is now called 'untenable' and that the promised 200 additional agents are not sufficient;]] [[Considering that tactical and forensic detectives themselves now say that this will solve fewer cases, allow criminals to go on for longer and increase the chances of judicial error;]] [[Calls on the Government to come forward with proposals to improve working conditions and cooperation in forensic detection and to further expand capacity, explicitly including the proposals of the workplace as expressed in "Noodkreet Forensic Investigation," and to inform the Court of Justice by 1 September 2019 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Nispen and Van Raak. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-880]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two brief questions for the Minister first. First of all, what is the state of play with regard to the law on the use of violence investigation officer? And the second question: what is the state of play with regard to the bill on the prohibition of community service in the event of violence against police officers? Mr. Chairman. Then there is a basic point, as far as I am concerned: the financing of the power surge weapon. During the general consultation, the Minister said: "The cost is another issue. I am talking about this." Yesterday we received the reprint of the explanatory memorandum to the first supplementary budget. First, it said: "In 2019, 5 million was made available for the purchase of power surge weapons for the police."' Now it says: "In 2019 5 million extra is available for the equipment of the police."' So I am assuming that I would like to hear from the Minister of Foreign Affairs that the stun gun died so quietly when it is not even there yet. That is not in line with what the Minister has at least suggested towards the Chamber. When the Minister later says that the 5 million can be used for this purpose, I would point out that 5 million is, on occasion, far too little, because structural 15 million is needed for the power surge weapon. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the pilot with the power surge weapon has shown that the power surge weapon is a good complement to the current means available to the police, partly because the power surge weapon fills the gap between the stick and the pepper spray on the one hand and the service dog and the firearm on the other;]] [[calls on the government to speed up the introduction of the power surge weapon and to allocate the necessary financial resources to this end in the forthcoming budget,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Helder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-881]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will tell you that I do not have any motions, but I would like to say a few things that have also been raised in the AA. With the first, I agree with Mr Van Dam. This is about trust in the organization, its importance and the fact that there is certainly a culture of fear within some departments and units. It really scared me when I was talking to a bunch of cops. People are sometimes afraid to say what is not working well and fear that criticism has consequences. This fear culture is a serious obstacle to what everyone says they are doing: working towards a kind of co-ownership of the police, in which they want the police to be able to be healthy and critical of their own functioning. This has led me to think much more positively about Mr Van Dam's proposal for something which is not now called an Ombudsman or a woman. I can actually agree with that. During the general consultation, the Minister said that as a supervisor he would not only look at the continuity, efficiency and legality of the organisation, as initially stated in his letter, but would also have an eye for good employership and for involvement and participation of employees. I would like to thank the Minister for that commitment. I wonder if he has thought about the way in which he wants to monitor these aspects. Will that also be explicitly discussed somewhere? Finally, about the neighborhood cop. We discussed it extensively at that time. We have said a few times that, of course, the district agent should spend 80% of his working time in the neighborhood. I saw all the tired looks and I know that's not happening. Sometimes it only happens once every two weeks, and that causes a lot of frustration. Now the Minister has said: I will turn this into a matrix. At least I wrote that down. Very good, but of course it's also about how cops experience it. With them there is a great deal of frustration when they think about what is needed and what they now have time for. My question is: now that we are talking about participation, is there no way of looking together with these agents to see how they can show what is needed and how much time they now have, for example through a survey? I'd like a response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u22	That tired look of me, which I think Mrs Buitenweg quoted, was caused by the fact that I remembered that the Minister also said in general consultation that it almost came down to timewriting and that he knew that from his previous profession. Lawyers have to do the same. I was a lawyer. That's a real horror! You're just writing, and that keeps you off your actual work. I agree with Mrs Buitenweg that 80% would be very beautiful, but does she agree with me that you should not bother the officers with administering it? Then it becomes very difficult.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u23	That's right, I agree. That is also one of the reasons why I am looking for alternatives that are also worn by policemen themselves, to give us an indication. For me that doesn't have to be at the hour either; the point is that there is now a big difference between the signals we get, so of "every two weeks I have time" versus the 80%. Is this indeed to be done by means of a kind of regular survey? I'm looking, too. I would prefer to do so with those agents themselves, so that it does not lead to more administrative burden on this issue, and I fully agree with Mrs Helder, but at the same time to make sure that it gives us more insight. I think cops have an interest in that, too. They are very frustrated that they are often unable to do their job, even though they are asked to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u24	In my view, that is what is at the heart of the matter: that they can do their job properly. It will be up to me, honestly and non-diplomatically, whether or not that is 80%. I think they should just get their own work done. I don't need a matrix. I think it's a good thing we can check to see if cops can do their job, but that's where the border is, as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u25	Indeed, in the end I was only moderately satisfied with the answer that there was a matrix, because I thought it was very institutional. I saw all these extra figures coming out of that again. I mean, we've been dangling about all those numbers in the police department so many times, and now I've seen a new number in front of me. That's why I'm really looking. And my request to the Minister is whether, in the context of this form of participation, it is not possible to look together with the district agents to see how they can explain how they see their task and how they see that they can give it sufficient substance. If we get that back, we can take advantage of that further.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u26	Another follow-up interruption by Mr Van Dam.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u27	I hear Mrs Buitenweg saying important things, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u28	It's not the first time, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u29	I can hear Mrs Buitenweg say some interesting things again. What I wanted to say is that earlier in this Chamber, I do not know whether GroenLinks has taken part in the vote. The Minister has undertaken to promote that the district agents may be in the district 80% of their time by 1 January. This has also been discussed extensively at the AO. I would be sorry if the debate did not lead us to get information on this at the half-yearly reporting stage, but that is different because of a bureaucratic regulatory burden perhaps not wanted by Mrs Helder either. Do you still share my ambition that we receive information about this in the six-month period?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u30	I do know that this has been discussed in the AO. I just looked it up. Then the Minister said: in the autumn. Mr Van Dam said: no, it was promised earlier. But I'll leave that to the Minister. I see he promised. My point is, above all, that I want more insight into it. But, in line with Mrs Helder, I do not want it to lead to an enormous bureaucratic burden increase. Well, I think, because that is also in the social interest, that we really need to understand: can that district agent do his job that we also expect him to do? I find this incredibly frustrating in people. But I think the Minister's about to clarify what he's going to deliver. Very good if that is just pulled out of the computer, because that will also be slightly recorded with the units; it doesn't quite happen there "'ins Blaue hinein"'. If those numbers are available, fine. But my proposal is to also consult with the district agents, to ensure that we get better and also quality information.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u31	I just wanted to say that Mrs Buitenweg once again says very sensible things. Furthermore, I have nothing to add to that content.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u32	Thank you. Mr Kuzu has the floor on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am replacing my colleague, Mr Azarkan, who made a number of points on the subject of ethnic profiling during the general discussion. The Minister knows that's a subject that DENK is on. The Minister has also indicated his willingness to do everything possible to prevent ethnic profiling. Now Bureau Beke has recently conducted an investigation, including a significant part through field work among agents. I will mention a number of quotes. Cops say they don't see the problem with ethnic profiling like that. "'We see no problems and no reason to adapt when it comes to proactive control of citizens. The policy against ethnic profiling is not implemented by team chiefs."' A third of Amsterdam's agents have never heard of any intervention against ethnic profiling. All in all, there's still a whole world to win. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the municipality of Amsterdam, together with Bureau Beke, has developed all kinds of ideas to counter ethnic profiling by the police;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether the Amsterdam approach to ethnic profiling can be extended,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu and Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-29628-882]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u34	The second motion concerns boas and training of boas in respect of ethnic profiling. That's what the next motion for a resolution is about. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the competence of the boa (special investigator) is secured by a basic examination and by continuous retraining and further training;]] [[calls on the Government to make the prevention of ethnic profiling part of the basic examination and/or retraining,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuzu and Mr Azarkan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-19628-883]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u35	The next item is the response by the government to the report on the general consultation of the police. I call the Minister for Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u36	Mr President, thank you. I shall now turn directly to the seven motions for resolutions and will include questions here and there and, as far as I am not yet doing so, I have the other questions here. Mr Van Dam's motion for a resolution 877 about the National Reporting Point Mispositions I leave to judge Chamber, provided I can understand the motion in such a way that I come back to your Chamber with a proposal as to how this "both physically and organizationally independent, independent position" is implemented. That's actually how I understand the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u37	Does the Minister mean to say that the effect may be that it does not succeed, or is it more to indicate in the line of this motion how that will work?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u38	Look, we've got a National Contact Point Mispositions, without going into it for long, Chairman. That's embedded in the police now. This motion suggests that you should remove it physically and organizationally. I can understand that. I also brought Mrs Buitenweg's question. I take that seriously, too. I think you really need to make sure that the hotline is such that you can do your story there completely undetected and safe. I would like to refer to the Chamber whether this is what we collectively mean by 'physically and organizationally independent and independent'. That's all it is. I admit that after the summer, let us say: early October, I will come to you with a story.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u39	With the explanation, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u40	Mr. Chairman. Then there is the motion by Mrs Den Boer and Mrs Buitenweg to item No. 878. I would like to consider holding that motion until I arrive in July at the same time as the six-month report with my letter on international police cooperation. We have already had an exchange of views on the fact that the Code of Police Ethics of the Council of Europe is there. In that letter, I will deal with how it should relate to this or how it could become more effective. In all honesty, I say that if I were to work on this in a European context, that would be a long journey anyway. In short, I will first explain in that letter how I see it and I would ask Mrs Den Boer to hold the motion until after reading that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u41	Of course, in the hope that the Minister will also support the higher purpose of this. It is, of course, also a question of reciprocity and guaranteeing the rule of law in cooperation between police forces in Europe. There is a great deal of law and regulation in the area of police cooperation in Europe. I want to hold the motion; you can. However, I would ask you to address the issue of whether it should be binding and should specifically cover instruments that are in force between the Member States of the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u42	I agree that "integer police action is important so that all European citizens receive an equal level of protection, both within and outside the rules...', in order to raise the issue. That means I have to go back in the letter to how we shape that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u43	We shall then be able to understand each other very well, and I shall now move on to the next item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u44	At the request of Mrs Den Boer, I propose her motion (29628, No. 878). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u45	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Nispen's motion and Mr Van Raak's motion for a resolution 879 I must advise against. The annual accounts are broken down by full-time employees and aspirants. Employability is really a different concept than operational strength. That commitment is indicated separately, so that is completely transparent, in terms of agents in training.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u46	If you look at certain tables, the annual reports and the budget, it is indeed transparent. But I'm really interested in every letter of inquiry. Today, for example, we are discussing the Road Traffic Act. Then there's another number. The Minister says there are 1,111 agents joining us, just to give you an example. The breakdown of aspirants is of course not made. I'm not asking for extra agents for a change; I actually think I should, but I'm not doing that here. But I do say: let us therefore give a realistic picture of the actual employability of our agents in the expressions and in the calculation of the operational strength................................................................................................................................................................................. So that's an honest figure. And then it's not entirely fair to count 100% of the people in training, because they need guidance on the streets. They haven't finished yet. So 40% is fairer. That is what the General Court has said before. Hence my urgent appeal to the Minister: come up with that honest picture in all the expressions and not just in the tables in the annual reports and budgets.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u47	As I said, this is something that is always taken into account in the deployment figures, and it is also transparently indicated which part the agents are in training. Behind that 1,111 is "fte." So we're talking 1,111 full-time units. Then you're going to look at the employability. And then we also show to what extent there may still be aspirants. I go into the details much too much, but there is transparency on all sides. I still dissuade the motion, but I will take up Mr Van Nispen's point. I admit that I am going to see to it that, in future, all communications, every time, the breakdown is reported, either in the text or by means of a footnote. Then I think we have that clear, because the transparency that Mr Van Nispen is talking about is also important to me. That's not the point in itself. Mr. Chairman. President. - The next item is the motion for a resolution (Doc. 880 on forensics. I shall come back to that in the six months of July. I would therefore like to suggest that we hold this motion until the six-month report arrives, because then we can also discuss it with each other in good sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u48	I see that Mr Van Nispen is not yet prepared to do so. He's thinking about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u49	Otherwise, I'm gonna have to discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u50	I get that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u51	Then at the moment it is simply premature, because a solution is being worked out at the moment. Mr Van Nispen mentioned that. It's a little short notice now. I do not agree with the cry for help on all points, but I do accept the criticism on a number of points. Anyway, you'll get a message in mid-July. Now I'm gonna have to take a good look, Mr. Chairman. This was the motion in part No. 880. Then the motion to part No. 881 by Mrs Helder. This motion, about the power surge weapon, is premature at the moment. I have sometimes spoken in your Chamber about the fact that I myself think positively about the stun gun. I have indeed indicated that the funding is one thing, but also that another thing is that we are still coming up with research into the health risk. I understand there are very short-term ones. That could really be before it recesses. But a motion that calls for introduction et cetera is premature at this stage. I would therefore ask that this motion be retained. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to dissuade her at this stage.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u52	The minister says she's premature. It is true that the report on health aspects was due for the summer. There isn't yet. In that context, she is premature. But when it comes to funding, it is certainly not premature. Because at first it was literally in the supplementary budget, but not anymore. Now it's "equipped." We also know they're working on body cams. Soon we'll be fishing behind the net again. Mr President, let me think for a moment: I am keeping her on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u53	At the request of Mrs Helder, I propose her motion (29628, No. 881). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u54	In the hope of offering any further bonus, I would like to inform you that the note following the report on the reform of the system goes to your Chamber after the recess. I also see now the question about the legislative proposal on the prohibition of community service. I just need to know exactly when that would happen. Mr. Chairman. Then I had two motions and then I come to a few remaining questions, from Mrs Buitenweg and...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u55	Mrs. Helder has another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u56	It's not a problem that the Minister has to check that out. But in the other assault investigation officer, I hear the minister say, "After recess." But what recess and what year?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u57	Oh, the summer recess of 2019. Excuse me, I have to be right in there. You're absolutely right. That's right. Then the motion to part No. Mr Kuzu and Mr Azarkan. In September there will be a letter from me on the issue of ethnic profiling. If I understand the motion in such a way that I certainly include the Amsterdam approach in the study in the run-up to that letter, because we are already doing that, then it is actually support of policy. I must therefore discourage the motion, because it is already in policy. That is how your technique works, Mr President, but I think Mr Kuzu should take that positively.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u58	However, there will be an interruption by Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u59	I need her "positive negatives."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u60	Mr. Kuzu, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u61	Sometimes when you get support policies, you get "judge chamber," so I can't take anything but the negative. But to conclude positively: if the Minister promises that in the letter he is going to send in September he will really explicitly address the Amsterdam study and the measures mentioned in the report by Bureau Beke, then I can withdraw the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u62	Fine, because that's really the point. And I checked with the Bureau twice more, but supporting policy means "dissuade." That's why I'm saying it's some kind of "positive negatives."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u63	As a member of the Bureau, I can confirm that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u64	Then it would also be good if other rulers complied with that. But thank you for the promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u65	Since the Kuzu/Azarkan motion (No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u66	Then the motion to part No. Mr Kuzu and Mr Azarkan. I would like to ask you to hold it until the letter arrives and we are having a debate about it here, because that letter is about the'making the basic examination' section and about retraining and further training. These seem to me to be subjects that should be addressed when we are debating the letter in the Chamber. So I would suggest that it be stopped.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u67	I cannot escape the impression that the Minister has an opinion on this at the moment. He can also work a certain direction. So how does he feel about the subject of ethnic profiling coming back into the exams of boas in their re- and up-skilling?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u68	I find that very difficult to say, because then I'm going to meddle in education, and I don't know if I'm the most equipped person for that. But I find it excellent in itself if in a training like that for boa in the curriculum there is such a part, given also the task and direct public contact of boas. To what extent, in addition to what is already happening and what we are considering, police training should be included in the basic package, I would like to return to that in the letter in September.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u69	Well, we often do that in the case of important social problems, such as the police organisation or education, from the Chamber or from the government, we ask to do more with them. So on this very point I would like to ask: can the Chamber have an opinion on this? So I don't want to hold this motion. I'd like an address in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u70	Then the verdict is on the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u71	Dissuade us, because then we are really walking ahead of the letter and I don't think that's wise. That's a shame, because it may well come back to you later. Mr. Chairman. I'd still have a few questions to ask. First Mrs. Den Boer's. That's right, that vision is coming. By the way, I would like to say immediately, and I do not really blame Belgian politics for thinking about the further development of Benelux cooperation, which I have just discussed with my colleague, Mr Geens, at the moment, a little bit about how to put it. It has been difficult to find a solution to this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u72	I understand that, but there are many other things that are covered by that strategic vision. If you can explain why there is a delay in relation to the Benelux, all those other points such as liaison officers and so on have all been appointed, I am satisfied. You're gonna send that to the Chamber before the recess, I understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u73	Yeah, absolutely. Mr. Chairman. Then Mrs Buitenweg had another question about good employership. That is what I will do in the six-month report, as I say...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u74	It is a bit of a distraction, Mr Van Dam's actions, that is true, but do not stop at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u75	Here's what I wanted to say. Mrs Buitenweg asks: how are you going to implement what you have said, that you want to be on top of it and that you want to get involved? I'll get back to that in that six-month message. This must indeed be meaningful, as we are now having regular talks with the trade unions, for example, on the progress of collective agreements and other matters. There's got to be some point. You should therefore be able to say on certain subjects: okay, we will come back to that separately. It should not be a periodic thing, but in that consultation with the trade unions, for example, we pointed out at some point that we wanted to talk about one subject. When we agreed a month after that to talk about it. We need to see if something like this can be done at that other point. Finally, the point of the district agent. That's what I've been meaning to do, and that's what I had already announced the general consultation on back in the six-month message. That six-month message is slowly becoming Gouda's phone book, but attention is being paid to that. Mr. Chairman. I think I'll be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u76	I think you wanted to answer one more question from Mrs Helder? You got another note about that, I just happened to see. The messenger just dropped off a note.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u77	Yeah, about community service. That's in the official phase right now. The consultation phase will probably start at the end of the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u78	Thank you for your attention, Mr. Chairman. I had asked if I could give an afterburner to the Minister's reply to the motion in part No. 879 by Mr Van Nispen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u79	Very briefly, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u80	Very briefly. In 2009, that was a Chamber meeting. It was said at the time that aspirants are fully counted because of the funding. It would be a nice thing for me if the Minister there, the next time he comes back to this subject, would also consider it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u81	I have no objection to admitting that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u82	Fine. This brings us to the end of the treatment of the VAO Police.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-13-tweedekamer-12.u83	We shall vote on the motions tabled on Tuesday 18 June. I suggest that we continue to deal with today's last topic. That is also with the Minister for Justice and Security, whom I welcome again.
