ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u1	We will continue with the General Political Reviews and I will give the Prime Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u2	Mr. Chairman. A few questions remain in the area of purchasing power and the labour market. There was, among other things, a question by Pieter Heerma about The social state of the Netherlands, namely that the quality of life has not improved in ten years, according to this SCP report. This report says that the quality of life in the Netherlands is very high on average, and that in itself is good news. The Dutch give an average report rate of 7.8 and in recent years you see little change in this. This satisfaction did not diminish with the economic crisis and does not increase with the economic recovery. This indicates how policy-resistant the country can sometimes be. That does not alter the fact that there is not much to do. Indeed, there are also large differences between groups, both in measurable components such as purchasing power, labour market and level of education, and in how people experience their lives. That is why this cabinet is trying to invest, on a broad front, in areas that play a role in the quality of life. That is also at the heart of the mission that the cabinet has set itself. That is why there is, of course, investment in the public sector, work in progress, and on top of that, there are additional investments in the youth care and housing market, all in order to ensure, in the end, that people notice it, regardless of the purchasing power that we have talked about. That would be my first reflection on this piece, but I would like to be challenged by Mr Heerma to go even deeper, because I see him standing by.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u3	However, I would like to propose that the issue of the labour market and Mr Heerma's questions be answered at once, if possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u4	Yeah, I'll finish this cup.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u5	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u6	I still had one earners, a question from the corner of the SGP and the Christian Union. As you have seen in the August decision-making process, we are reducing the burden on households in a structural way. In the allocation of this burden-sharing, we have also looked closely at the position of single-income families and two-earners. You can see that there is more balance in the treatment of one- and two-earners, also due to the flat rate in the disk system. This does not make up for the differences in the past, but you can see that in the new purchasing power picture there is a little more balance. For example, earners benefit from raising the phasing-out limit for couples in the child-related budget. This is no longer reduced from the minimum wage but from an income of €27,500. If you look at the whole package, you can see that a earner with a moderate income has the most advantages of the burden relief. They're about 5% ahead of it, so that's a peak. However, there have been considerable differences in the past which have not been eliminated. These are partly linked to the phasing out of the transferable tax rebate and its incorporation into the reference minimum wage. Then a question has been asked about future generations. They must be as good as they are today. That's why Segers, together with Jetten, I thought, suggested a generational test. We'll pick up that glove. Maybe I can put it that way for the sake of clarity. Ministers BZK and JenV will inform the Chamber about this. I have a lot more lyrics, but if the answer is yes, I can keep things short. That doesn't mean that if the answer is longer, I say no, but just before the sharpness. Then there was the question of whether we could reverse the VAT increase on fruit and vegetables. No, we're not gonna do that. I think there is a balanced package of measures, whereby we do not use VAT for this type of incentive in a particular direction. Then the question was asked about integration and anonymous application. Mr Jetten asked about my view of all Dutch people with a migration background. Maybe I can refer to the discussion I had at the beginning of the debate on the Moroccan problem, as Wilders said at the time. I explained that there is no Moroccan problem, but there is a mocromafia problem, and that Moroccans are overrepresented in the wrong statistics, but that there is no Moroccan problem. Perhaps the explanation behind it can also serve as an explanation at this point. Let me finish, because the President's request was to address all the questions relating to purchasing power and the labour market. Mr. Chairman. As far as the Empire is concerned, we strive for diverse teams, especially at the higher scales. There the diversity can really be much better. This is promoted, among other things, by training for HR advisors and managers in the conduct of an objective selection interview, through a small-scale ICT training programme for highly qualified refugees and inclusion of the themes diversity and inclusion in all management courses in the government. And outside the government, the Secretary of State for Social Affairs is working with interested parties, including the Human Rights College and the Labour Foundation, on municipal anti-discrimination provisions and the implementation of the Labour Market Discrimination Action Plan, which addresses labour market discrimination. Inspections, and the Labour Inspectorate in particular, are also subject to increased powers in this area. So we are talking about concrete positive actions in addition to the above legislation and enforcement, but Mr Jetten referred to them, for example, as regards traineeships, or study choices. Mr. Chairman. Finally, Mr Krol's question. He said he would table an initiative proposal to criminalise age discrimination. At present, a ban on discrimination on grounds of age is included in the Equal Treatment Act based on age in employment, the WGBL. Alleged age discrimination may also be submitted to the College of Human Rights. Of course, the injured party can go to civil courts if the employer fails to comply with that ruling. I have to add that age is not included as a grounds for discrimination in provisions in the Penal Code devoted to discrimination. The cabinet believes that the criminalisation of insulting statements about a person's age would also limit the freedom of expression too much, especially since age is indeterminate. For example, the distinction between children and adults would also be included. Although this is an important issue, in the government's view it is sufficient to address and combat age discrimination in the labour market. Mr. Chairman. In doing so, I have tried to answer the questions of purchasing power and the labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u7	The Prime Minister just responded to The Social State and indicated that the differences between citizens are very large, for example as a result of a labour market position. He has already indicated earlier today that people at the bottom, through flex constructions and zzp-constructions, can be put at a disadvantage. He has indicated that the Borstlap Committee is looking at this at the moment. I indicated yesterday that precisely these people have become the cushions of the economic cycle and that they are going to take the hits if the economy is less. Exactly what the cabinet warns about in the Millions Note: this could happen given the developments in the world economy. Is it not important that, once the opinion of the Borstlap Committee has been delivered, the cabinet gets to work quickly and does not fail to do so? Because if the economic situation goes down at some point, it is precisely these people who deserve our protection.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u8	Yeah, once. The opinion of the Borstlap Committee is now due at the end of November. In any case, we will get to work as quickly as possible on the short-term issues contained in it. We will also give birth as soon as possible to a letter in which we will respond to the long-term solutions suggested so that we can have a debate on them quickly. So let's have the emergency. In anticipation of the Labour Market Act in balance and the minimum rate for zzp'ers that bill goes into consultation in October and comes to the Lower House at the beginning of 2020 of course there is all the necessary, also ahead of Borstlap. We will soon have 600 million structurally available for this issue within the entire domain of zzp.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u9	Can the Prime Minister set a deadline for this? In what period do we have this reaction, so that there is really no time wasted if the economic situation is bad?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u10	At the end of November, Borstlap's advice will be delivered. In the short term: this must be done very quickly. So you'll be talking in two weeks? I think. Wouter? Yeah? For Christmas! Before Christmas we come up with short-term measures. And we come in early January with a first long-term analysis. February! At the beginning of February, we are going into the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u11	Yeah, are you done with Wouter?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u12	We'll work through Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u13	Are you done with Wouter?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u14	Yes. That was in order to serve Mr Heerma well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u15	Fine. I just broke a lance for more purchasing power. In fact, I would like to try again to convince the Prime Minister, with an example of what people are going through at home, to eliminate their own risk in the care sector. A lot of people can't afford that. I have an e-mail for me. I won't mention the lady's name. The e-mail came in this morning. Here's what she says. "I'm a 47-year-old woman. I have cluster headaches. I have a muscle disease. I had to live on the street for a while because there's no place. Fortunately, people have helped me." She writes that she now lives on €40 a week. If you are ill and live on €40 per week........................................................................................................................................... The maximum amount of €385 per year is too much. If there's two of you and you don't have much money, that's $770 a year. You're not gonna make it. You can't do that. That is not about 0.1% or 2% or 2.1%. They're just people who are sick, who would avoid normal care. But if you have a headache, if you have muscle diseases, then you can't avoid caring. What is the answer to this lady, who has also heard that she would improve purchasing power? What are you gonna tell that lady?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u16	Once again, of course, we have discussed the question of purchasing power in detail. Those are models. What we, Mr Wilders and I, can ultimately do here is to ensure that parliamentary majorities arise in order to lower taxes. But when I hear how much she's left a week, that's hardly gonna help her. The risk isn't there because we're having fun with each other. This is there to eventually find a balance between keeping some control of all healthcare costs and ensuring that care remains accessible to everyone. That's why there's the care allowance. Of course, this helps people with low incomes to a significant extent in financing, for example, the health premium. I am well aware that, of course, the total cost of health care, the sum of care allowance, premium and own risk is very spicy for these people. I can't get that out of here. In the end, we have to look at how we do this. But it is not possible to free the many billions now to say suddenly: we are going to remove the whole risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u17	I disagree technically with the answer in macroterms, but these are real people. These are just real people. They are exempt from the general practitioner, because the general practitioner is not subject to his own risk. But they do need medicine. If you have muscle disease and cluster headaches like the lady, you really can't live without your medication. Luckily, I don't have cluster headaches myself, but I know people who have cluster headaches. I don't give it to anyone. I cannot answer the question: there is no money in the macro-budgets. Ma'am needs her medicine. She needs medication for the headache, and she needs medication for the muscle disease. She has €40 a week, is happy to have another home. What's the answer, just from person to person, to that woman? How do we help her? I just want to help that lady. You should want that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u18	Sure. Given the level of the social minimum in the Netherlands, €40 per week is very little. Then we should call the lady all the way together and dive into her household wallet. This could have been caused, for example, by problematic debts. Many low-income people, of course, end up in problematic debt. Tamara van Ark is working with the entire cabinet to get people out of this mess much faster. Then it is also arranged that you can never fall below 95% of the welfare standard. I think that €40 per week is very low, so I hope that this lady uses all the facilities available. Mr Wilders asks whether I can now undertake to remove the risk of this. No, I can't. That's not foreseen right now. I would almost be inclined to call the lady and have someone from social services listen to me and see if she's making use of all the possibilities. Removing one's own risk now is impossible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u19	I'd like to go with the Prime Minister who's calling the lady. I like to take that glove. But this lady is of course no exception. This lady isn't the only one getting into that kind of trouble. There are people, often also with chronic diseases or who are just out of business, who do incur this kind of cost. So I had hoped that you would come with me to eliminate that own risk and then once again, not to think in macro terms, but just to help people who are having a hard time. Those are people who are sick and are going to avoid care. Sometimes people can't avoid caring. You don't want to do that. I'm sorry about that. But indeed, perhaps one day, Mr. Prime Minister, we should go to such a woman to see what's going on. Maybe that also helps the realization, which one of us is right, that this is not possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u20	If we do it without the press, or else it's gonna be one of those shows. Not that you're suggesting that, but I'm just thinking that we're not going there with three cameras. So that's not a suggestion, but I'm thinking more out loud. In 2011 Emile Roemer I was on the road in social work and that became a huge media show. So we shouldn't. But just as specifically: I would also be interested to look at the social minimum and how her welfare situation is affected if she is part of it. Is there, for example, a debt problem where it does not use possibilities? Of course, we have special assistance with the municipalities. So I can't just say here: we're abolishing our own risk. That's a billion-dollar operation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u21	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u22	But in the sum you should look at what happens in her income, which makes her look so very low on that €40, because that is very little.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u23	We don't agree on our own risk. We do think you should eliminate your own risk. Then you'll have to leave something else for it. Then you'll have to cancel other expenses for it. That money's here. That's making a political choice. I'm sorry the Prime Minister doesn't make it. We, as PVV, will make it. But indeed, let's go to that lady. Then we shouldn't keep complicated stories. I don't think there's a local reporter to be with yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u24	Yeah, it's just the two of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u25	We don't have to tell you what happened afterwards either. The point is that at least we show that we find this unacceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u26	Good idea and then that way. Let's do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u27	I'm reporting for the annual sole earner interruption. Maybe considering the time, we can skip the first part. The first part is that the Prime Minister is going to explain to me on this point that there are also differences of opinion on the promotion of economic independence and that, secondly, the aim is to exploit as much human resources as possible. I know, so that's where we can find each other in the information. But I can now say that there is indeed good news, also with appreciation for the commitment of the Christian Union and the CDA. There is more purchasing power for the single-earners. Not in the minus anymore, so count your blessings, fine. But that's why right now part two. There's still a gap, a difference. If you earn €40,000 on your own, you have to pay six times as much tax as when you have that amount as a family income and earn €20,000 each. How could we get a step further in order to reduce that injustice experienced by so many people?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u28	Then the answer lies in the ungiven introduction by Mr Van der Staaij, at least what he said he was not going to say. It is also a difference in political choices that were made a lot of years ago. In doing so, it was decided to reduce the transferability of the tax rebate in steps. Of course, that also has a huge effect on this group. That is simply an actual effect of a policy choice. Inspired by the parties mentioned by Mr Van der Staaij, the CDA and the Christian Union, I do not have the impression that the VVD and D66 have any objections to a earner........................................................................................................................................................................................................ If the ratio in 2021 is out of balance, we now only have purchasing power figures for 2020 and we are going to try to take measures to this end. But I can't take away that fundamental difference here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u29	These are people from all kinds of political backgrounds, people who say, for example, because the man has a burn-out and the woman is working full-time, or because of caring for children or because of caring for the family, that we are now, for some time or longer, a earner's family. Does the Prime Minister think it is real that there is such a fundamental difference that with this €40,000 family income you do not pay €1,500 tax but €9,000, so six times as much? Is that really what this Prime Minister thinks is real?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u30	The point is that you say: someone who works pays taxes; they are entitled to discounts and are entitled to a duty-free foot. In the past, of course, you could bring in the partner's. We'll take that down in 20 steps. There is a policy choice and also a social view, where you say: try to fly the tax system from the person as much as possible, not from the composition of the family or family at the time. That is a choice that has been made, in which this coalition does not make any changes but, encouraged by the man next to you, Mr Segers, and also by the man behind you and others, is looking at how we can limit those effects as much as possible. That worked for next year. We're also gonna try it before 2021, if it's off balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u31	It is sometimes a bit of a strange representation of things, as if a earner would be especially in the grassroots of Christian parties. There are more earners in the grassroots of GroenLinks and D66, and perhaps also of the VVD, than in my constituency. But it is really about the principle of freedom of choice. If you are unexpectedly in a situation where you have to combine care and work in a different way, then it should not be the case that there is a tax fine or that you pay so much extra. I shall come back to that point for next year, because we are not going to solve that fundamental difference. We have not been able to resolve this at the negotiating table either, so that difference remains. Is the promise that next year there will also be an effort to ensure that one and two-earners do not fall apart as much as possible during this cabinet period? Is that indeed the government's commitment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u32	In any case, we agreed that, should the ratio become unbalanced in 2021, we would take measures. That is the political agreement we made in the coalition, and at least I am going to stick to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u33	Finally. Thank you for that. The undercurrent in the tax system is one of an increasing gap between one and two earners, so it has to be repaired every time. This at least underlines the importance of elections, because then there are different views. If the Christian Union comes out of the fight a little stronger, then it could then become even more just.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u34	Now it has become obsolete that GroenLinks and the VVD have more earners than the Christian Union, we are going to look at it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u35	I was struck by the sudden atmosphere of action that arose after the interruption of Mr Wilders. Since the fate of this woman is also very dear to us, I wanted to ask if I could come with you to this lady.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u36	No, we're not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u37	Well, I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u38	We're not gonna do that. We're gonna find something we're gonna go to together, if that's what you want, but not that lady. That's what I'm doing with Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u39	Well, maybe Mr Wilders doesn't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u40	I'll be there with Wilders later, and I think it might go a little far to visit that lady with three people. So let us do that together, and then perhaps we will come to something else in the course of the debate where you and I can go.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u41	That's weird, isn't it? Because we all want to stand up for people like this, I'd say. But I guess that's what you're trying to keep between us. That's interesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u42	No, I don't want to keep that between you, but it doesn't seem nice to me. That lady sent an e-mail to the PVV this morning. Geert Wilders reads to him and hasn't mentioned her name very neatly. She might listen to this debate and think: help, then those two will come to me! Let's see if she even wants to. If she wants to, fine, we'll definitely go there together. But just to go there with the three of us, that's a little overkill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u43	We look forward to the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u44	Yesterday, in my speech, I drew attention to the imbalance in the debate on our various societies. I very much welcome the Prime Minister's words this morning at the opening of this debate. I would also like to congratulate him on saying in such clear terms that the problem with the mocromafia should not be swept up with a Moroccan problem, which this Prime Minister has also stressed that we in the Netherlands do not judge people by their origin, name or belief, but by what they can contribute to the future of the Netherlands. I like that very much. I understand that in this debate, the Prime Minister does not address in detail my questions about discrimination in the labour market when it comes to traineeships and jobs. There is three times less chance of a job or internship if you apply with an Arab surname than with a Dutch surname and a criminal record. But I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether he agrees with me that there should be an exclamation mark behind this approach to labour market discrimination and that the Secretary of State should work with full energy on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u45	Right, I totally agree. I'll mention two other things. Firstly, this is also in the interests of those companies themselves. We know that teams that are diverse perform better than when you put only white guys from the early 40s on a team. Male/woman, different cultural backgrounds, it's just more creative. There's just more going on when you do that. The second is, we need everyone. Today unemployment is rising by a fraction, but I understand from the CBS explanatory statement that this is because more and more people who hear that there is so much cramped in the labour market are now reporting. Then you have a temporary effect of rising unemployment. That is good in itself, given the big cut we have in education, care, defense and police. We need everyone, but also in business. Then I'm like, "Oh, my God, how incredibly stupid to just keep looking for someone who looks like yourself."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u46	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u47	Good. Mr. Chairman. A next theme is execution. There have been fewer questions on this than on the previous issues, but it is nevertheless very important. I would like to make two preliminary remarks. Firstly, the problems in implementation are not caused by the people who work there. The people at the Tax Office, the UWV, the CBR, the NVWA, DUO, the SVB and all other execution organizations, that is not the fault. Those people are just trying to do it right. But there are always roughly three problems that play one way or another. That is often a problem around ICT. The Elias Commission was mentioned yesterday. There are really a few big failed ICT projects. Two. There is sometimes a problem of unfilled vacancies. And there is also a problem that affects us, namely that we make it so incredibly complex that this implementation is complex again. That's part of the game, too. I want that said here. We're working on that as a cabinet. Mr Heerma wondered whether I would take the lead on this matter personally. Not that, but I am in charge of all the relevant consultations and make sure that this is managed properly. This is a high priority for the cabinet. We are currently working on an analysis of what exactly the problems are under the hood. We want it ready as soon as possible, and then we're going to map out all the action options that are there. There has also been talk here, I heard, of a parliamentary inquiry. Of course, I'm not about that at all. Can I say one thing about it? Not about it or not, that's what the Chamber is about. But if it were to come, let's focus on an open analysis of the causes and possible improvements, a bit in the spirit of Klaver's contribution yesterday, and not immediately start looking for mistakes and culprits again. If you do that, I am so afraid that such a parliamentary investigation will instantly go into the defensive cramp again and that all positive energy to improve matters will be removed. So if it were to happen, that would be my cri de coeur. Finally, perhaps two more things on this point. GroenLinks' demand to invest more in solving the premium problems. An inter-departmental policy inquiry into supplements has been launched. All possible improvements in the surcharge system will be considered. It also looks at ways of abolishing them or regulating them in a different way. This is incredibly complex. Let's get my party cap on. We've looked at that as a VVD too. It's improbably complex, because abolishing the surcharges was our experience, leading to huge income effects. But we're going to see if we can do it again. That working group is currently working, including the option of abolishing the surcharges. In that sense, the request of Klaver and Marijnissen to look at it is made on the retina. Finally, although I can do that afterwards, the CDA had another point about the civil servants. I'll get to that separately. Let's just answer these questions first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u48	Let's take a look at the PM's reverse dualism. In my view, several parliamentary groups yesterday expressed their desire to do self-reflection.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u49	That's right. And that's just me echoing. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u50	Good. Then let's see who's gonna be in charge of this trial. If you look at what someone like Tjeenk Willink says about it, the Ombudsman, the SCP, the day before yesterday the Council of State. This is really big. This transcends individual directors, individual departments. The Prime Minister says, "I'm not gonna take charge of that." My question is: why not and who is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u51	I'm only in charge of the entire cabinet. It is impossible as Prime Minister to carry out my constitutional task of promoting the unity of government policy as I do besides the roles that I q.q. As a member of the European Council and sides, the monarchy took up the substantive portfolios. Then that will ultimately damage my constitutional role in promoting the unity of government policy. That's why I shouldn't. But I personally represent all relevant discussions, I can say to Mr Heerma. Well, all... Almost all of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u52	Precisely because this is about so many areas, who is going to be leading them? In which the Prime Minister presides, I understand. But who's directing this process?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u53	There are, of course, several issues that are beyond policy. Look at nitrogen, where Mrs Schouten was willing to coordinate, although of course she is also involved in this, from agriculture, but also from a cross-departmental perspective. It applies to themes such as emancipation. At this point, Wouter Koolmees is the main contractor, right? Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u54	The danger of a parliamentary inquiry is that it will stop for a very long time and then we will sit back and think: let's start by investigating and talking. In the meantime, of course, there are a lot of current problems. I had just, quite practically, mentioned yesterday the example of an energy window. That's how practical it is. Last year I stood here in the same place and asked the Prime Minister: wouldn't it be a good idea to make sure that citizens can go there in every municipality? That is another red tape that someone has to go from Rijswijk to Rotterdam and pay €69 for an hour's talk. What are we doing in the short term to help citizens with very practical problems who feel that they are being sent from the locker to the wall?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u55	I remember that remark about the energy window. I didn't prepare for that right now. I'll get back to you in second term. So your question is understood, but I just don't have it in my set right now and I don't want to improvise either. So I will come back to that in second place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u56	Yeah, I'm fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u57	The question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u58	If you take one step back, you can see that it is not just the energy window, but that there really are problems with all the implementing organisations at the moment and that citizens feel so often in so many places that the government is not there for them and that they are going up against a wall. What does that say about our policy? What does that say about our way of working? What does that say about how we look at citizens and each other? What does that say about how we look at legislation? You say you're the boss of the stuff. You've been in a very responsible position here for some time. What is the Prime Minister's reflection on that point?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u59	Well, part of it... we're, of course, co-legislators. When I once defended the welfare law here in 2003 as Secretary of State, the House of Representatives had a tendency to want to know in detail what would happen there and how it was implemented at the time we all wanted to bring the fence to the municipality. I have had to make an effort to stop that and say: you cannot decentralize to municipalities, also claim an efficiency wish in accordance with CPB overbooking and then send in detail. That simply cannot be done. So I said to one of the MPs: if you want to know in detail how the assistance is being implemented in Purmerend, that is to the city council, from 1 October 2003. Those are very complicated discussions. Well, that could be a little easier there, because you gave that whole budget to those municipalities and Article 2 of the Financial Ratio Act is perfectly clear about the money flows that get away from it. With a lot of other legislation, it is not possible to scorch it up. You can see that legislation is sometimes made very complex by the cabinet itself, but also in the debate with the Chamber. As a result, we are dealing with an extremely complex implementation. The supplements themselves are, of course, an example of this. I've been walking with this for a while, so that's also under my... I always say, "Everything that goes well does the team, everything that goes bad is my fault." It's very simple. This isn't going well, so it's my fault in the first place. You're absolutely right about that. By the way, one thing about this parliamentary investigation. I only refer to that because I heard it and because I actually wanted to echo what Heerma and others said: keep it basically. This does not mean that we are going to wait for that. So we are now working on our own and we are also coming to the Chamber as soon as possible with reports on how we are doing the analysis and on the actions that follow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u60	I think it's a bit of a tricky answer. The Prime Minister says he's a little worried about whether the Chamber is doing enough self-reflection. Next, he starts in the answer when I ask him to reflect himself again about the Chamber. My question then is: do your own self-reflection. Yes, this side of the line requires self-reflection. What kind of laws do we make? What wishes do we all put in those laws that prove impossible or very difficult to implement? We must do this self-reflection, but I also ask for the other side. I said yesterday: there is a culture in which rules are more important than people. The change of such a culture always starts at the top. Then, of course, it is very nice to say 'everything that goes wrong is my fault', but that is so common again that it does not say so much. Breaking that culture, so that it becomes human-oriented again, also begins with the cabinet. This also starts with responsible ministers who constantly talk about providing services to citizens, in conjunction with those implementing organisations. Then there must be a change of heart and there must be reflection on that side.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u61	Yeah, sure. But let me say one thing about my experiences with cultural change. I agree entirely with Segers from a to a, and I also agree with the fact that, of course, the cabinet has the primary responsibility for this. Absolutely. But my experience with change processes, especially when it comes to culture, is that it is extremely complex. That problem is not with the people in the execution itself. Those are people who are just really trying to do their best. You're not gonna work at the IRS if you're a man-hater. You work there because you want to make sure that money is collected, no more than necessary, and that people get their money back when they can get it back. There is therefore no question that people there are deliberately stifling things. These are people we are doing a bad service to because ICT systems do not work, vacancies are not fulfilled and that regulation is so complex. In the cabinet I have seen for years that the policy intimacy, the intensive contact between cabinet and execution, has become much more intense. That used to be a lot less. Look all over the chain of work and income execution and the SUWI chain. Look at the IRS. Look at DUO. That's very intense. And yet you see too often, whether it's the Ombudsman or other signals or what we all hear ourselves, that things are just really going wrong. That is why we have said that it is also a great point in the Throne speech that this is a priority. This is the first contact point. If I renew my passport or my driver's license, I'll go to the city, but for almost everything else I have to call one of those government agencies. Then you just want it to go well. Then you don't want anyone to be able to answer because it's all so complex. The people who have to give the answer still sucks the most. They just want to be able to answer. It gives them a lot of fun.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u62	Finally, Madam President. Let us agree that self-reflection is being done on both sides and that this is a common problem. What's at stake is exactly what the Prime Minister says. It's the first contact with the government. The big question is, is that government there for me, yes or no? It was the intention of this coalition, of this cabinet, to be even more explicit and much clearer for people. That starts with a human-centered government. That starts with a decent benefit. And then there's an incredible amount of work to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u63	'Cause we're all that government. It is not a customer supplier relationship and that is precisely why it is so crucial. In a customer-supplier relationship you can still go to another supplier, but here we are with the whole of the Netherlands that government. That's why it's so important. I very much agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u64	The Prime Minister was just talking about the surcharges. There's research going on. He pointed out the impact it has on people's incomes. In the purchasing power plates, supplements are really the best tool to be able to steer perfectly. And then we have those purchasing power tags again. I would like to ask the Prime Minister if he is prepared to include the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau in the current investigation. In conversations with people, it is necessary to ask whether they might prefer to have the assurance that they will receive childcare or security about their care costs. That might save a tenner a month or a little more, but then you'll have the certainty that you won't get into debt and trouble. We should not just focus on how it comes out of the purchasing power picture, because then I already know the conclusion. That's why we haven't done anything about it for years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u65	Fine to give the SCP a role in ibo surcharges. That's not a problem. But the very tricky thing is, of course, that it's really real income effects. If you were to abolish the healthcare allowance and make up for it entirely in the social minimum, in the tax system or in other ways, it would be extremely complex. With my party cap on, all I can say is that we've looked at it once. The previous group chairman, Mr Zijlstra, has done a great deal of work with the group at the time. It is extremely complex with huge income effects. During the big tax review in 2016, we looked at it with the Labour Party and the VVD. Extremely complex. I'm not against it, I wish you could get rid of it, because that whole supplement thing is one of the reasons why there's trouble at the IRS. Let's not give the impression that we're going to solve that quickly. That's my only point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u66	The Prime Minister has already done it a few times: put his party cap on. But he's here as prime minister, of course. I can't change hats. He knows that, but I'm gonna point him out again. I know how complex it is. But every time we look at a subject through exactly the same glasses, nothing changes. If that's the way we look at these surcharges, then stop doing this research, because I already know the outcome: it's too complicated. I'm asking for a different approach. Look at what this really means in people's lives instead of: how did it come out of the models? If we keep looking at the way we've done it over the past few years, the conclusion is that we leave it as it is. Then we can spare ourselves that effort.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u67	Agreed. Therefore also the suggestion of the SCP. But you can see the bottom of the wage building in the Netherlands going through the hoofs really massively if you don't do it right. That's my point. The last thing I want to say is, we've tried it before and we can't. If that's how it happened, then no. Only, I do have that echo from a few years ago. I'm now being counseled by Mr. Klaver to turn off that echo. That has happened now and we are going to try to find something with positive courage.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u68	Still, about the UWV and the IRS. The Prime Minister says that we are the government together and we need to listen to people and make sure that people don't get into financial trouble. That was said by the king in the sermon of the throne. The UWV and the Tax Administration are the face of the government, but does the Prime Minister agree with me that that face will show that the government is not there for those people like those who need it most?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u69	That's a long way to go. I think it is our job and our duty, when people in the country turn to the State, to ensure that... This is very often done through the implementation organisations. Then you need something and that can indeed be a benefit claim or a student who reports to DUO. Extending your driver's license is still possible, but with something more complex you will soon end up at the CBR. If that happens and on average there are too many complaints about the quality of what happens then, then that is serious. It's just, what I'm trying to say here is really important to me. If there are people watching at the CBR, the NVWA, the DUO, the Tax Office or the UWV, we should not say to them: that is your fault. Those people aren't responsible. No way! I visit these organizations and I am always impressed by the quality of the people who work there. But sometimes there are too few and sometimes the computer systems are outdated. Furthermore, we have made the regulation very complex. In itself, the Chamber is right that it always starts with the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u70	Absolutely. It is absolutely not the people who work there. There are major staff shortages and outdated ICT systems. But that policy has come about by the governments and also approved by the government, the government. Then the Prime Minister is also partly responsible for resolving it. This is indeed about people who get into major financial problems, by going to the government's face with their questions and making sure they get their money in time. I therefore believe that the Prime Minister should take the responsibility to deal with this for those people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u71	That's what the Cabinet does. It was a big point in the Throne speech and today it is rightly also a big point. The cabinet had that T-shirts session in Oisterwijk; you saw it on TV. One of the things that came out of it was... In any case, I was wearing a T-shirt in the eyes of Mr Dijkhoff. But apart from that, one of the things that came out of that session was the whole question of execution. We picked that up internally immediately after that, but I'm not going to tire you of how we organize it in the cabinet. None of that is interesting, because it's about something happening in the end. So this is a very important priority for us. Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u72	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u73	Maybe two more things, Mr President, that touch them. These are, first and foremost, the inspections. I wouldn't choose to put that direction in the Chamber. Inspections have a high degree of independence in the context of state law. I think it is best to keep that steering structure as it is within those tightly organised safeguards. Another point that remains is the question of the speed of circulation at the official summit. It's really an art every time to find a good balance. In general, I think that goes well with the top management layer of the state service. It is important to find a balance, in which you actually try to say: prevent some people from sitting in one place for twenty years. Sometimes that happens now and then, that's fine, but try not to become a standard situation, a normal situation. We now have a maximum of seven years as a starting point. Now you see an average of five years on the job. I think that is a balance that can be struck, but there are also possibilities to make an exception if that is necessary. There is another point. Mr Heerma asked this question. He put forward the point of maintaining knowledge and experience in the government. I do not think it is so much a question of the official summit. How do I ensure that the necessary knowledge exists and remains with the large organisations involved in infrastructure, with very specialised knowledge? Of course, they buy in a lot. That makes sense. They don't have to do everything by themselves. How do I make sure that knowledge stays there? That is a point of attention that I absolutely see. In areas like Rijkswaterstaat, where great people work, it is really important to keep an eye on whether there are enough people working there who really understand what that road builder or that hired water-state specialist is doing. That is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u74	I think he had another point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u75	No, these were all the points on execution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u76	So this is the execution...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u77	Implementation has been completed, at least for this debate, because much remains to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u78	I find the Prime Minister's reasoning rather remarkable, because it used to be true that people were somewhere for 20, 25 years. There was a reaction to that, the ABD, and then the orbital speed went up. But between five years and twenty years there is a very big gap and I get to recognize others that perhaps many sides are concerned that the speed of circulation is now too high and that this knowledge of the subject is not given enough time to mature. What I would like to ask the Prime Minister is that in that self-examination which the Cabinet is doing, the element should be taken into account whether it is not wise to extend those five years at least for managers who need to have professional knowledge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u79	I'm gonna try to do that practically. Perhaps we should separate the previous theme from the implementation organisations and ask the Minister for the Interior to reflect on this system in the run-up to the BZK budget. I can see her reacting enthusiastically. Is that a thought?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u80	If there is a letter in front of the BZK budget explaining this, with the advantages and disadvantages of the old and the current system, then that is fine as far as I am concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u81	Sorry, Kajsa. Mr. Chairman. Then we get chapter 4, environment and climate, all the questions about that. First of all, the big problem of nitrogen. That was, of course, the subject of yesterday's debate. I think the term "goat paths" has become too big. That wasn't meant to be "we're gonna do things outside of a little mág." But you're going to have to come up with a whole package of solutions to tackle that nitrogen problem and, before I start to analyze that word "goat path," it all has to meet the legal requirements. That's important here. It must be legally correct, it must be holistic, it must be true in its composition. I think that's the shortest answer to that issue. Then there was a specific question about the Housing Agenda. How does that go, in relation to the problems with nitrogen? The question now is how we can do that in the years to come. Of course, huge ambitions have been agreed to build 75,000 homes in the coming years. By the way, this has almost been achieved in the past year. We want to hold on to that, too. We need all parties to do that. And yes, then of course the PAS pronunciation does not help, as it does not help in many areas. A number of smaller projects can start again since Friday, because we have said at this minimum nitrogen deposition, which minimum nitrogen precipitation, that projects can go ahead. But more needs to be done, and you know that the cabinet is working on it. If possible, we want to come up with an initial view as early as the beginning of October on what is possible in the shorter term. We need a little more time for the longer term. We are well advised by an advisory club led by Johan Remkes. Mr. Chairman. At the same time. I might be able to answer all the questions about the area?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u82	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u83	Mr Heerma suggested that when looking for land, we first look at the land of older farmers with problems of succession. Yes, it is true that farm succession in the agricultural sector is sometimes a bottleneck. That is why we are also working on financial and substantive support for corporate takeovers, in all possible ways. I think what Mr Heerma is proposing is a sympathetic idea in itself, to allow ground positions of farmers with follow-up problems to be taken into account when identifying construction sites. Of course, however, the choice of location for housing must be tailored in particular to people's housing needs, infrastructure and the principles of spatial planning. I would therefore suggest that we include such a solution in the reaction the cabinet will give to the plans presented by the Johan Remkes group. We will involve this thought. Then there was the question of Mr Van der Staaij of the SGP whether there is room for a regional deal with the region of Drechtsteden-Gorinchem. Yeah, I'm gonna handle all the questions first and then... I can tell him that the regional deals are indeed a very good way to boost the development of an area or region. The Minister for Agriculture invited the regions earlier this month to come forward with proposals, so Drechtsteden and Gorinchem can also submit a proposal for a regional deal. This can be done until 1 December of this year. The proposal will then be notified through the National Service for Entrepreneurship Netherlands. In addition to a comment by Van der Staaij, I also note that education can be part of a regional deal. In the end, there is also a competition element in this, because we are going to weigh all the different proposals together. Air transport pricing. To Van der Staaij, I can say that airlines currently pay for CO emissions from intra-European flights, under the EU system, the emissions trading system. Air transport also pays through airport charges for its own infrastructure and air traffic services. From 2021 onwards, airlines will also pay for CO emissions from intercontinental flights under the global CO compensation and reduction system. Furthermore, an aviation tax will be introduced by 2021. We prefer to do so at European level, so we will try to do so, but if we do not, we will do it nationally. The bill on this subject was presented to the Chamber by Secretary of State Snelly last May. A number of comments were also made yesterday about Groningen. May I say that we are pleased that we have succeeded, with everyone's help and commitment, to bring the Groninger gas production back to almost zero faster than we thought? There is always a risk of very cold winters, so you still need some after 2022, but basically we don't produce anymore. This also makes it safer in Groningen. There is now a huge bucket of work on repair and reinforcement going on. All this is now done by independent public hands, so without the substantive interference of the NAM. And the Court is now in the process of adopting legislation to anchor the public handling of all forms of damage caused by gas extraction, including intangible damage and damage caused by loss of property value. Then I'm talking about the bill of temporary law Groningen. A few things have been said about Urgenda, but I haven't heard a question. It is known what the cabinet does there, but if there are any specific questions, I am armed to the teeth here. Mr President, this is about environment and climate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u84	And did you also answer all the questions in the first term?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u85	Yeah, the ones that were on this subject. Then I'll come to the housing market. That is the next topic.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u86	About the PAS. We are not going to dissect what is meant and what is not meant by it, but I do think one thing is important: that whatever solution we are looking for, the solution to the problems cannot be that there should be less nature in the Netherlands. We must not solve problems by depriving nature reserves of their status.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u87	We have already said that no one intends to remove nature reserves. Let me start by saying that. I'd like to leave it at that. We want to see what Remkes comes up with first, for the short term and the longer term. The importance of conservation and restoration of nature and improved nature quality are, frankly, necessary for any solution direction. So now there are no plans to delete nature reserves. At the same time, I would like to give the Remkes Committee a chance to advise us and then give it a chance to react taboo-free.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u88	It is precisely on this point that I would like a little more certainty from the Prime Minister. Whatever the advice of the Remkes committee, it seems to me politically a very bad idea if we were to get fewer nature reserves in the Netherlands and if we were to say that the status of nature reserve can get rid of the leprechaun forest near Breda, because it doesn't really matter what happens there. That is my view. I'd like to rule that out, actually. When we talk about "no taboos" and "we don't say anything," I want the conclusion to be that we end up with less nature in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u89	No one wants that. It is also extremely difficult, because you can identify nature areas, but de-nomination, de-nomination is terribly complex and, in most cases, needs to go back to Europe. There are no plans for that at all. But I would just like to avoid that if we say 'no taboos', then I'm completely delicious now. I don't want to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u90	Thank God it is very difficult, I would like to say, and indeed you have to go through Europe before you can get rid of that status. But since it is so explicitly said that there are no taboos, it could also work out that it might eventually prove to be the easiest solution to extract the status of natural areas and to create fewer natural areas with the thought: well, this is just such a pick of nature, what does it contribute in its entirety? These are noises coming from the employers' lobby. I would like the Prime Minister to give the very clear signal, including to that lobby: stop this, the cabinet does not listen to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u91	I'm not going to respond to lobbies in public. We do not intend to lead lobbies to the Chamber unbiased. I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u92	You were talking about Schiphol and the lobbies that are there and that they do not get too many feet on the ground.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u93	The same applies, of course, here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u94	That is about the same lobby that talks about reducing nature, that there would be too much nature in the Netherlands. I really want to taste the guarantee, and my group will be extremely keen on this...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u95	And rightly so!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u96	... that there can be no solution to the problem of nitrogen, which includes reducing the number of natural areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u97	I get it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u98	The excess nitrogen is the problem with our nature. I am very pleased that the Prime Minister says that there are no taboos in the search for these solutions. Can the Prime Minister, because we heard this yesterday in the debate of a number of parties, also confirm that, given the housing agenda, the government is giving priority to building all these much-needed homes in the short and long term in order to solve the problem of nitrogen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u99	Yes, but that also requires you to reach those homes. This also means investing in the underlying infrastructure. So it's all en-en; that's the tricky thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u100	Sure. That is also the point: if we give priority to housing, we will have to make difficult choices in other areas. That is why it is right that the cabinet should look at it without taboos. I would like to invite the cabinet to join the input of me and Mr Heerma in the search for this direction of solution. Because if we want to give the nitrogen problem, the climate challenges, but also the desire to offer perspective to farmers who are now stuck in the old system and who really want to switch to circular agriculture, which is able to link different challenges, then we can do very nice things with this nitrogen pronunciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u101	Yeah, I get all that. I'll stick to my previous text anyway. I heard it all. I think it is all very logical building blocks for solving this problem. But we do not want to appoint the entire House of Representatives as the Remkes Committee, but first we want to ask the specialised committee what works best in the short and long term, and therefore look at it without taboos. But what I hear doesn't scare me. I get it all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u102	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for taking on board my suggestion of a slightly more healthy farmers' understanding of older farmers with succession problems. However, I would also like to look at the other side of the Prime Minister in trade union K, because it can also be part of the way the Minister of Housing is going to take up her job with that billion that there is. Because you can also see locally that housing projects are being made that do not first ask that question at the front. This sometimes leads farmers to go to court for years because they don't want to lose their good business, while there might have been a farmer a few hundred metres away who could have been helped if you reversed the process. So the request is to include this not only in response to the Remkes committee but also in the elaboration of the idea of "more national regulation on housing."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u103	You, and then maybe I'll take the question that's been asked about taking that direction nationwide. That is also a question from Mr Heerma. Yes, direction is needed, and especially since we have now released additional funds of EUR 1 billion twice, we will have to conduct a major direction from BZK anyway. The billion on the expenditure side has also been precisely labelled for a number of conceivable uses, including nitrogen. I do not want to say that this is a priority, but it is almost there with neon lamps. So I agree with Mr Heerma's speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u104	I have two questions on this block. One is about the nitrogen crisis and the other is about Groningen. First, the nitrogen crisis. We have just heard that Mr Klaver is concerned about the disappearance of nature because of construction projects or livestock farming. This cabinet is capable of anything. It's already doing nature on sale: about 800 projects that private parties can bid on, through auctions. So those concerns are not unjustified. That is why I ask the Prime Minister once again to be ready and to say that nature is really a great asset for us, and we are not going to take anything away from it. The nitrogen crisis was not caused by a natural phenomenon, but because over the last ten years we have deliberately managed to break the nitrogen rules with the Programmed Approach Nitrogen. That's a violation of international regulations. I expect the Prime Minister, who is responsible for this cabinet, to say in the block about nitrogen that he is retroactively ashamed of the fact that the government has just broken this kind of rules, which means that we are now in a nitrogen crisis, where farmers and people looking for a home suffer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u105	We've been working together to find a solution. It is now clear, also from this judgment, that that solution is not sustainable. We must find a solution to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u106	The Prime Minister says "this solution is not sustainable," but that is just The Hague bullshit. It is simply a matter of the judge saying that the cabinet should never have invented such a programmatic approach to nitrogen, because it violated European regulations. I expect a Prime Minister to put on the fine dress and say: indeed, the government should abide by the rules that it has helped to make possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u107	Once again, we can all start predicting the past now, but I believe that a number of years ago we sought a solution to this problem. However, that solution is not sustainable. We have to deal with that now. It happens in politics sometimes. We must, of course, find solutions in the scarcity. Sometimes you're confronted with court rulings that force us to find a solution as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u108	The cabinet has already been flagged back by the judge because it does not comply with the established goals, drawn up by the cabinet itself, around climate. Think about the Urgenda case. The cabinet is flagged back by the judge because it violates rules on nitrogen. Then it is up to the cabinet to at least acknowledge that it is completely lost and that it promises to get better. The Cabinet doesn't do that. In fact, the Minister for Infrastructure says: we are just going to come up with a new trick. I want the Prime Minister to waive such a ruling.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u109	She didn't say. She said we have to be creative to the maximum. I say, with her, that this must of course be done within all legal frameworks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u110	The creativity of the cabinet has so far only led to violations of the law, and so I have little confidence in it. My second interruption is about something else. It's about Groningen. In my first-term contribution, I have already had a debate with the Christian Union and D66 on the CETA Convention. This year, if it is up to the cabinet, this will be ratified from the Netherlands. But we also know that in countries such as France, for example, we see that a company such as Vermilion, which has invested in Groningen but also in other parts of the world, can rightly claim investment protection in the free trade agreements by means of investment protection, so that it can demand millions from the State if the gas tap closes in Groningen. We still have the chance to stop CETA, which means that companies like Vermilion will lose their ground in demanding hundreds of millions of euros from the State. Is the Prime Minister going to reconsider stopping CETA and not putting his signature under the Treaty?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u111	I'm now being pulled into an individual matter. I don't have to do that. I don't know that case anymore. In general, I think it is very important for a country such as the Netherlands to seek sensible trade agreements by means of conflict resolution mechanisms. I think that the trade agreement with Canada is a very defensible treaty. Canada is a decent country, which is very similar in standards, democracy and liberal open society to many countries in Europe. I would therefore be very much in favour of that CETA Convention being ratified. I don't know the specific case, and I don't know whether to interfere.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u112	It is worrying that the Prime Minister does not know that there is a claim hanging over the head of the Dutch State. When CETA is ratified and the First Chamber agrees to the phasing out of gas extraction in Groningen, we are faced with a million-dollar claim from a Canadian investment company, namely Vermilion, which is drilling gas in Groningen. I find it shocking that the Prime Minister is not aware of this, because it means that we are going to have to deal with an additional amount of money that has to be transferred to such a Canadian company because we are going to be completely blind to ratifying the CETA Convention. I expect the boss of the Netherlands to know what he's doing when he signs a treaty like CETA. I would therefore ask the Prime Minister whether he can come to the fore in the second term and then come back to this question of mine about the CETA Convention and its implications for gas extraction in Groningen and the claims that can be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u113	I'll ask you to take a look at that, but I'm not going into an individual case. Mr. Chairman. Then we get the housing market. I have a few comments to make. First of all... Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u114	I would like to ask a question about this nitrogen, because I am very worried about that. Doesn't the Prime Minister agree with me that you shouldn't look for goat paths, that you shouldn't look at creative accounting or color a little bit of fun legal within the lines? It is about the nature and the viability of the Netherlands. I hope that there will be good solutions from such a Remkes committee, but I am very concerned that such a jovial VVD solution will then be introduced, and I apologise, Mr..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u115	The Prime Minister compliments that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u116	A Jovial VVD solution! The magazine of the Hague JOVD was called the Jovial, so that's true, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u117	And now a response to the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u118	You want a further response. Well, I think we agree. I tried to detox the word "goat path," because it was not Van Nieuwenhuizen's intention to say: we're going to rustle. It all has to be within the laws and regulations. In addition, you have to be maximum creative. That will be a package of larger interventions and smaller interventions. She means that "goat path" in that sense, and not as: we're going to mess something up legally. That's not possible at all, because it's got to stay in court in the end. Furthermore, I very much agree with Mrs Van Kooten that it is very important that we do not see oak forests die on the Veluwe and in Drenthe as a result of too much nitrogen. From the beautiful country we have, we have an interest in maintaining that nature in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u119	I am concerned about the fact that the Prime Minister said in reply to Mr Klaver's questions: we do not want less nature in the Netherlands, but yes, I am not going to say that we are going to completely rule out the possibility of a status being removed. So I really, really want to know from the Prime Minister that there will be real solutions, that nitrogen emissions will be reduced and that no new solutions will be sought in creative models. 'Cause that's what it is. Then a legal goat path is sought and colored within the lines, where the Dutch nature is ultimately the victim.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u120	What we are going to find must be legally sustainable and ultimately also have the aim of actually solving this problem. I agree with Mrs Van Kooten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u121	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u122	Then a few questions about the housing market. I begin with the importance of corporations and their role in the neighbourhood approach. With the Labour Party, I would like to endorse the importance of corporations for improving the quality of life in neighbourhoods where this quality of life is under pressure. Corporates are therefore given more freedom in allocation, so that more diverse income groups in the neighbourhood can be allocated. We also want to make it possible for the free allocation area to be increased to 15% if it is needed locally. The amount that corporations are allowed to spend on residential activities in neighbourhoods is also increased. In that one billion we now also have the deduction on the landlord's tax, to make it attractive to add affordable new construction. Maybe I'll do all the questions about living first? Not that I want to avoid Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u123	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u124	Then there was the question from the SP corner, which asked whether we would like to freeze the rents for the next five years. According to the Cabinet, rent freezing is not necessary and is not desirable either. This would be at the expense of investment capacity and would therefore undermine new construction, renovation and sustainability. This is not only bad for the availability of homes. This also affects tenants' enjoyment of residence. Of course, we now have in the package that 1 billion is available for a tax reduction in the landlord's tax. In addition, we have the housing impulse, the other billion. They are, of course, on top of all existing policies. Those are new, but they do come on top of everything we already do on the property market. The proposed rent measures, in the third part of Mrs Ollongren's letter, are also aimed at affordability. The same Socialist Party asked if by the landlord levy each tenant had to pay €3,200 extra in the past period. That's not true. The tenants don't pay for it. The amount of the rent is also not determined by that charge, but by the broader policy of landlords, performance agreements with municipalities and rental regulations. Last year, the landlord tax rate was also reduced by 100 million and we introduced a tax reduction for sustainability in rental homes. The picture is that, in the near future, there will be sufficient investment capacity in the corporations for additional investments, on top of the already planned construction plans. This is now being mapped out with the sector in order to get a better idea of how the challenges and resources relate in the long term. Then there was the question about ATAD 1. This has to do with the anti-tax-avoidance directive and how it works in the housing corporations sector. Making an exception for housing corporations is legally risky. This can be seen as state aid. At the end of this month, the Minister for Foreign Affairs will inform you more about the size of the investment capacity in the sector. This will also address developments in corporate tax payments. Then there was a question when an insight into the feasibility of the Christian Union's desire to bring the transfer tax for start-ups to zero and increase it for investors from their third home. That examination of this differentiation, with an exemption for start-ups and an increase for investors, has now begun. We expect that to be completed by the end of this year. Then, very soon afterwards, the cabinet response will go to the Chamber. Mr President, I think I have answered all the questions in the area of residence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u125	I'm curious. Yesterday, on the part of the CDA, we heard an interesting plea to stop speaking and, above all, I think that is even more important not to think about a housing market, but to talk about housing again. How does our Prime Minister view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u126	I liked that term. I think Heerma was senior State Secretary for Housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u127	Yeah, exactly. Of course, that is what the debate was about yesterday: gradually we began to see our roof over our heads more and more as a market. The big problem of this is, of course, that if start-ups want to buy a property, investors come into the market and buy it like a raging house, not to live there themselves, but to make it financially better. That's a big problem. That is why I ask the Prime Minister once again, perhaps more specifically: does he agree and does he agree that we should reduce, for example, the role of those investors in our social housing?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u128	We sent that whole package in chapter three to the chamber. For example, you also look at the position of people who manage large portfolios of housing. You have to be very careful with all that, because in part you also want more homes to be available for the rental sector and it is not bad in itself if someone has multiple homes and has those homes in the rental. You want to prevent the system from being designed so that it leads to maximum speculation. If you limit it too much and scorch it completely, you run the risk of removing houses again and people prefer to sell the houses. Then they will be added to the stock of properties. There is a very fine balance in that; a very fine balance has to be found in that. I think "people's housing" is a nice term, because it also refers back to the ideal to which the ugliest street in Amsterdam is called, Wibaut. You know I think that's an ugly street. He deserves a nice street named after him, but there was an ideal behind it, namely that the nurse and the teacher...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u129	The Amsterdammers are angry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u130	Yes, I hear the Amsterdammers disagree with me, but it is a breakthrough by Joop den Uyl. All due respect to Joop den Uyl, this wasn't a great project. But that's not the point; it's about Wibaut. His ideal that the nurse, the doctor and the policeman can also live in the city is reflected, in my opinion, in that term 'people's housing'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u131	It is, of course, wonderful that the Prime Minister says this, but it is about whether everyone can find an affordable home and whether an affordable home is still a right or becoming more and more a luxury. The latter is the way it is now. I also heard the Prime Minister say something about what to call the landlord levy. I'd still like to appeal to him here. The housing corporations indicate that they are currently in trouble and that precisely the idea of building, building, building, which is so promoted by this cabinet is now being held back by that same cabinet by that levy. The rents are gonna blow through the roof. The Prime Minister says very easily: the tenants do not pay; the corporations do. Yeah, I'm fucking crazy. Who's paying these corporations? That's what the tenants do, of course. A tenant has been paying for three months a year just directly to the state treasury instead of to a decent home. So is the Prime Minister prepared to do more about the landlord's tax? I also ask this question because the corporations indicate that this tax prevents them in the very idea of building, building, building, which is so desired by this cabinet. It makes the rents go up, which I don't think we want.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u132	I see the former alderman of Amsterdam writing that the Wibautstraat is very nicely renovated and that she attaches great importance to the fact that I bring that up here as well. This also applies, of course, to the University of Amsterdam, the Hogeschool van Amsterdam and the Volkshotel.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u133	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u134	I hear it's all gonna be beautiful.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u135	I'd say visit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u136	I probably still have a 19th-century statue of the Wibautstraat. I'm gonna hold onto it for a while, but I'm gonna weigh it. Then I come to Mrs Marijnissen's question. We are going to see how these resources develop in the longer term. As I have just said, that investigation will be completed in the coming months. Our picture is that there is at present sufficient investment capacity in the corporation sector. Two. The fixing of prices and the level of rent is not determined by the landlord levy, as I have just said. That's where you talk about other things. You look at the whole policy of rental and rental, you look at what we can do in performance agreements with municipalities and you look at what we can do with rental regulations. These are ultimately the determining factors.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u137	I don't think the tenants who are dealing with huge rent increases are going to need a new investigation. I think it's very clear and extremely clear that corporations are getting into trouble because of the landlord's tax. They also indicate that it is precisely that building, building, building that is what the Prime Minister did not react to. So if this cabinet wants to build, build, build, and it wants an affordable house to be available to everyone, I appeal again to the cabinet. I do not think you should start a new investigation, but look at the situation in housing; let us keep it in. You will then see that you need to address this landlord's tax, precisely to make room to build, but also to ensure that an affordable home remains available to everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u138	We tackled it last year, of course, with the reduction of 100 million, and now we are going to take it up again. Another billion is available, apart from the billion on the expenditure side. Look, of course you wouldn't want to charge a landlord tax at all, but as part of all the crisis packages and addressing the problems in the country, it was a necessity. Then we, who try to manage the country wisely, must ensure that this does not lead to an unreasonable reduction in the ability to continue investing. Our image is that that is not the case. The conversation to map that further is going on. So it's not like we're not doing anything about the landlord tax. There's 100 million off, and we've got 100 million now for corporations making extra investments. In that sense, therefore, the necessary things are happening, but we cannot suddenly remove the entire landlord's tax, just as we cannot suddenly remove the risk of our own.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u139	We're in a housing crisis. An affordable house is in danger of becoming a luxury. There's a housing shortage. The landlord's tax is 1.8 billion. Taking away 100 million is a drop in the ocean; so does the Prime Minister. So if he wants to invest in that building, building, building, and if he wants to make sure that an affordable home remains available to everyone, then he will have to do more than that. The crisis is over. There are billions left. It is said that this has been a crisis measure, but we are now dealing with an economy that is running like a tierelier. The profits are huge and there are billions left. If you analyse that there is a housing crisis and that there is a housing shortage, you have the courage to invest in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u140	So that's what we're doing. We already did. We also seem to be on track last year in terms of the number of new homes to be developed; that is 75,000. That's good news, too. And now we're spending twice a billion again. Of course, it's always the case that you'd want to put a lot more into it than you could. That is certainly true, but we must continue to make choices in scarcity. So it's not like we're doing nothing. They're working on it on all sides. I also refer to the whole package to strengthen the functioning of the housing market itself. This involves maintaining affordable rentals, a better distribution of existing stocks, increasing local customization and improving the balance between start-ups and investors. All those things we're doing. We're really gonna do this. He's a big-headed monster, and we're trying to knock all those heads off.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u141	The Wibautstraat, the Schaefer Bridge, the Heerma Bridge: they are all places in the capital that remind of powerful drivers. They realized that the housing shortage isn't something to give you credit for. "Well, we have to make choices in scarcity," but to do something about it. "Who builds? Wibaut!" That was the spell back then. Now we're talking about housing. There are a few positive moves in the Minister's letter, but in the meantime young people pay more than half of their income to rent if they can find a home. So I fully agree with Mrs Marijnissen that there is a housing shortage. There's been a housing crisis. The problem of this cabinet is not money, but too little attention to what society needs now. You could say we're going to lower that landlord's tax. It was meant for the crisis and the crisis is over, we can now see that. If you lower it by half a billion, you can provide lower rents and much more affordable homes. Then you can show that you are indeed bringing back housing in the spirit of Wibaut. Could we agree on that today?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u142	There is indeed a big problem with the housing market, but we were already working on everything. We come up with a very substantial extra investment in the housing market, of twice a billion; a whole package to ensure that the housing market itself will function better. I believe that we are making a very serious effort to combat this multi-headed monster. That's not overnight; that's not something you arranged tomorrow, even if you put a lot more money in it. We see that the target of 75,000 new buildings in the past year seems feasible, so we are working on it on all sides. I hear Mr Asscher saying, and I respect that: fine, but I want to send a lot more money there. Of course, that's with everything, but in the end we have to make choices here in scarcity. We can't do everything at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u143	On balance, the cost of housing corporations increases by the combination of the landlord tax that is higher, and the ATAD that is ahead. Charges are rising. If this had happened to the big companies, it would have been a crisis. Then we'd have T-shirts, firefights, irresponsible risk. This limits young people and other people, middle incomes and low incomes in finding a home. You say: we have to choose in scarcity and the cabinet is already doing a lot. That fits within the framework of this debate, but you can really do a lot more here. Let us accept that housing should come back, and you acknowledge that, and that you should not just regard it as a market. Then you should also give that space and send the minister out to have that conversation. Give her room to end this crisis measure now or at least to reduce it. You'll get more homes and lower rents.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u144	Yeah, we do, and she gets that space. We're also seeing effects right now. Of course you can always put a lot more money into it, Asscher is absolutely right, but that is also something you make choices with each other, as a Chamber and a Cabinet. In the end, it's not unlimited. There is now a package of twice a billion, on top of what is already happening, knowing what the investment capacity of the housing corporations is. We know that the Minister is still coming up with an analysis of the specific problems of ATAD. You can't just take that away legally, because you make yourself legally vulnerable if you exclude the housing corporations. The analysis of what that means is still coming to the Chamber. Work is being done in all these areas. We are also working on a whole package to improve the functioning of the housing market as such. I think we are tackling it on a broad front now, and we should. This also underlines the importance that we all feel. What I hear Mr Asscher say is that he supports this movement in his own right, but that he would like to put more money into it. Then we'll have the discussion about that. Then I say we'll have to look at how you balance things a little bit in the end. We come to education, and there are wishes; there are wishes for youth care; there are wishes everywhere. In the end, it is not the case that we have a budget surplus; only a little more next year and after that there is a budget deficit. In 2021 we are again on a deficit and there is no surplus. There's only one year left, then it's gonna be a deficit, so it's not like the money's gonna pop against the plinths.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u145	That may be so, but it is your cabinet that is arguing about the naming of a fund that your Minister of Economic Affairs believes could be worth as much as 26 billion. You were just talking about tens of billions. Of course it's about scarcity; that's politics. I make an appeal that is supported by a lot of people in society. There is a need for more affordable housing, for low incomes, for low middle incomes, for the teacher, the teacher and the older. It's possible. The corporations also indicate that they can build more if you reduce a crisis measure at least. Then you don't come by saying: it's choosing in scarcity, you want so much. We have a number of points that I think affect the economy of the Netherlands; there are not enough housing. They touch what's right, because living isn't supposed to be a luxury for the happy few. Then it is a task for the government to make more building possible. You can do that by taking out money for this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u146	That is exactly what we are doing by reducing this crisis measure. You want to reduce it a lot more, but we'll reduce it. We've reduced it and we're reducing it further. We also put another billion in the housing market, so we do a lot. We are implementing a whole package of measures to ensure that the housing market as such, and certainly the rental sector, will function better. Seventy-five thousand houses are probably being built right now. So a lot is happening, but we don't have any big surpluses in the years to come. We go to deficits, so we really have to spend the dimes very wisely every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u147	Perhaps the need for affordable housing in Amsterdam would have been a little less if the municipality of Amsterdam had not declared a construction stop in 2010. But I will not remind Mr Asscher too often. Mr. Chairman. My question concerns the second part of the housing market package, and these are the fiscal measures. The Prime Minister said: we are investigating the possibility of abolishing the transfer tax for starters. The starters experience a disaster, because they do not intervene in that housing market. Abolishing the transfer tax would give the starter who buys his first home at the average price for a starter's home, so €5,500. My question to the Prime Minister is: if the investigation shows that it is feasible to set the transfer tax for starters to zero, is he going to do so anyway?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u148	Well, there we have to... You know, Mr. Jetten is in the coalition. These are matters that we will, of course, discuss in the coalition. I can't commit to that here on behalf of the cabinet and the coalition. I understand that is what Mr Jetten wants. I understand that, too, but we need to discuss that with each other. The investigation into whether and how exactly this can be done is being carried out. We want to finish that by the end of the year. Then there will be a cabinet response. In that context, let us discuss this with each other first in the coalition.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u149	Then I note that there is at least a positive basic position. If that's possible...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u150	In everything there is a positive basic attitude.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u151	Then we're gonna do that to help the starters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u152	You know me! That's my hallmark, my natural fallback position.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u153	It is now very much about whether or not the cabinet is doing enough to reduce the landlord's tax. What really surprises me and what I do not think many people understand is that there is a tax for the housing corporations that are building social housing, but that the speculators are exempt from the landlord's tax. That's weird, isn't it? You can't explain that, can you? What's the explanation for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u154	What we are doing in the context of the study on the differentiation of transfer tax is also exploring a number of other measures to achieve a better balance between start-ups and investors. This can mean, for example, a different tax on rental income; I also mention the resilience of buy-to-let mortgages. So that's what we're looking at. We will look at this in conjunction, also in order to avoid the accumulation of all kinds of measures. Of course, investors also play an essential role in the housing market. I told you. They provide capital for new construction, but also for the desirable development of the mid-rental segment. So we have to be careful to say now: it is by definition wrong to have a lot of houses in someone's possession. You should also be careful that they do not eventually reject it to the purchasing sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u155	It seems that the Prime Minister is now more concerned about private investors than about housing market corporations. Now it is read from the letter of Minister Ollongren. I think there's some really good stuff in there. Fine, mostly do it. But I was specifically talking about the landlord's tax. We have found ourselves in a strange situation where housing companies, which are supposed to provide affordable housing in the Netherlands, have to pay more than 1 billion taxes, while private investors are exempt from that tax. You can't hold on to that, can you? If we talk about how we can ensure that the housing corporations can build more, then we can talk about 100 million more or less this year or next year, but doesn't put it much more on the table if we are willing to take the step whereby private investors, those cottage milkers, are going to pay for such a landlord's tax? Then the housing corporations have to do much less, so that they can build.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u156	That is also in the research we are doing to achieve a better balance between start-ups and investors. I just mentioned another tax on rental income. That's what we're all looking at.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u157	Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u158	If that is Mr Klaver's question why was it decided at the time to do it only for the wocos, the housing corporations, and not for the private investors? I should like to be briefed on this. Then I can come back to that in the second term. That's the historical question. I don't know why we decided that at the time. But looking at the future, we are now looking at what measures are possible to improve the balance between start-ups and investors.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u159	Finally, Mr President. The historical question doesn't need to be answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u160	Then I'll scrape it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u161	So that's okay. It's the future that matters to me. What I do not think is sufficient in this response is that it refers to all kinds of new ways of taxation towards speculators. It's good that that happens; don't get me wrong. But it is about an existing instrument, namely the landlord levy. I say broaden it to those private investors and investors. This will enable us to make sure that these housing companies pay less and that more can be built in that particular segment. On that point, I would like to have the Minister's undertaking that he would also like to look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u162	That's part of the further investigation. In addition, we are currently mapping this whole balance with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u163	Speaking of balances, I would also like to refer to the Prime Minister to look at the balance between the opportunity for Dutch people to live in an affordable home and that of asylum seekers and status holders. Let's start with asylum seekers. People, as we know, have barely a penny to grab, if they can find a house or a rental house. There was a report in the newspaper two days ago that the asylum seekers' centre in Gilze started with a renovation costing EUR 40 million. EUR 40 million for the conversion of one asylum-seekers centre. People would get their own kitchen. It would be further isolated. They're gonna make it gasless. The Dutch have to take out a loan through that fund of this cabinet. That's all in there. 40 million euros! The whole problem with nitrogen is also put aside, because also the alderman says here: no problem, we're just gonna take care of this. How can we explain this to the Dutchman who is forced by you to take out a loan to make his house gasless, who cannot build his new home because of the nitrogen directives and who is on a waiting list for nine years before he even gets a house?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u164	I can't judge that particular case right now. I can say something about what was said yesterday in the debate on Syrian status holders. I thought Wilders also raised that point. In any case, it has been pointed out that sending them back would make many additional homes in the Netherlands available for the social rental sector. I have the following answer to that. Whether the situation in Syria is safe enough to return is always judged on the basis of facts. That's what the Secretary of State for Justice and Security does. The security situation of a country shall be assessed on the basis of the objective sources on the situation there, including the statement of office of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In the short term, the Court will be further informed as to whether the facts in the Foreign Affairs Notice give rise to a change in the asylum policy for Syria. That is what I wanted to say in response to the specific question yesterday about Syria. Furthermore, we should not politically decide whether a country is safe enough to send people back. That was said yesterday in the debate. As I just outlined with regard to Syria, this really needs to be done on the basis of facts that are objectively assessed and not on the basis of a political decision. Furthermore, it is regulated that priority for asylum seekers as automatic has been removed from the law. It is further up to the municipalities how they deal with it. If there are asylum seekers in the municipality, it is natural that there should be good facilities for this, to ensure that people can be taken care of and that nuisance is reduced.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u165	I told you, there are two categories. I'm not talking about the status holders right now. I'll get to that in a minute. I was talking about the asylum seekers. You know that asylum seekers do not yet receive a social housing. They're coming into an asylum-seekers' center. It is only when they have a status that they become so-called status holders. Then they're going to a social housing facility. We'll do the latter in a minute. That's what your answer was about. But I wouldn't have asked that question right now. I was just talking about the asylum seeker. In Gilze, an azc has been made gas-free for 40 million euros, among other things. The Dutch have to take out a loan for this immediately. How do you explain that 40 million gas-free own kitchens are being built in a time of scarcity and at a time when you are having all this climate crazy paid for by those citizens, even if they have to have their house built without gas? That is true for those asylum seekers and not for our own people. I don't understand. I don't think a lot of people at home understand that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u166	Before I respond to such an individual case, I'd like to look into it first. So that's what I'll do. Then I'll come back to it in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u167	Thank you. Then I'll come to the status holders. The Prime Minister already mentioned it in his reply. I won't make it long, but just give me a few facts. From 1 January 2014 until 1 September of this year, 141,325 status holders were transferred to a house. They fill 83.132 dwellings with each other. So 83.000 social rental homes in the Netherlands are filled today by former asylum seekers, status holders. Just over half of them, almost 50,000, are Syrians. My question now is: why do you not send those Syrians back to the country in large parts? If you were to send those people back to the safe areas of Syria to build their own land, that would mean that we would have 50,000 homes in one blow, so that those Henk and Ingrid who are on a waiting list for nine years could get a home. We caught those Syrians. It's safe now. So they're going back to build their land, and in one blow, 50,000 homes will be released for our own people. What's wrong with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u168	I just answered that in the misunderstanding that Wilders and I had when I thought he was referring to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u169	If the answer is about official messages and the question of whether it is safe, then I'll tell you some other facts, because you won't get away with it that easily. Yesterday, there was a report in the newspaper that 153,000 Syrians, including those who already have refugee status from the UN, have already voluntarily returned to Syria from Jordan alone. So we already see that more than 150,000 Syrians from Jordan are voluntarily, casually, returning to Syria, because that country is safe. If the people from Jordan voluntarily return to Syria, which they really would not do if it were unsafe, you cannot tell me that we cannot send back those 80,000 people in the Netherlands who fill those 50,000 homes. You would do Syria a favor, because then people would come back to build the country. They're already doing it, voluntarily from Jordan. And in the Netherlands, 50,000 Dutch people have a home at once. Get rid of problems with nitrogen. A place right now, tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u170	I understand what Mr Wilders is saying, but I think it would be unwise for us here to decide whether it is safe for people to be returned to Syria on the basis of what we are politically speaking. We in the Netherlands simply have a proper procedure for that. I just outlined it. I have also said that the Secretary of State informs the Chamber in the short term whether the facts in that foreign affairs statement give rise to a change in that asylum policy. What I would not want is for us here as a parliament to decide whether or not it is safe in a particular country, because that seems really undesirable. In my view, we broadly agree on the general asylum policy in this Chamber. Only space in the Netherlands for real refugees. The numbers must be limited. We saw in 2015 and 2016 what happens to society when the numbers are too large. Then that dislocate, in the sense that we were out of control then. In the end, thanks to the deal with Turkey, it was possible to reduce the flow of refugees and to get controllable. The Netherlands has historically chosen to do so, and I support this in order to be open to real refugees, provided that these numbers are manageable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u171	Finally, a third and final deadline in this interruption. The people have been here for five years now and you know that according to Dutch rules you are entitled to a permanent residence permit after five years. You are giving me exactly the same answer as you gave me last year on exactly the same interruption: yes, we need to look at it and you will be informed shortly. Nothing happened in a year. If you wait too long and delay too long, if you wait another year or two years, you will find that, although Syria is safe, at least parts of it, those people will never go back and have a permanent residence permit. So I'm telling you for those Dutch people who are waiting for that house and for Syria that needs to be rebuilt, but also because in a year's time those people won't go back because they'll get a permanent residence permit: do it now. Can I at least ask you to address the question of how safe Syria is now and when we can finally do business on this subject for the second term or during the second?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u172	No, I'm not gonna do that. I have outlined how the trial is going and that the Secretary of State will inform the Chamber as soon as she is done with it. So that's not for the second term. I really like that we do this kind of thing in a decent way. Wilders and I will agree immediately that if the Netherlands is open to this, we will be happy to do so for real refugees, which means that people who have no business here must leave and that people who do have something to do here can count on us to receive them properly, but then the numbers must be manageable. We saw in 2015 and 2016 what happens if those numbers are not manageable. That is the general asylum policy. Then very specifically about this group of Syrians, and at all about how to deal with whether countries are safe or not safe: beware of the democracy where parliament decides whether it is safe in another country. Always do that on the basis of objective facts. As soon as there's more to report, the Secretary of State will do so. I shall return to Gilze's example in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u173	I've also been reading that paper... quietly. It's been published this summer, early July, so we've been two months. In fact, it says in so many words that it is safe in all kinds of provinces and that there are all kinds of possibilities to return. So I find it a little strange how this discussion is going. The Prime Minister says: yes, we put that down to the Secretary of State; there will be a report; there will be a report. Couldn't he be a little more specific? It has been two months since that report was published. We know that thousands of Syrians are now getting permanent residence permits every week, when they just have to go back and get back. If it isn't now, it will be in a few months, a maximum of six months or a year. That country's almost back on its feet. The war there is largely over. In the last year, fewer murders have been committed in the four safest provinces of Syria than in Amsterdam. So can't you be a little more specific? Can't you just say this is what we're gonna do? The Prime Minister uses the argument "beware of democracy in which parliament decides." Hello, that is a democracy: Parliament finally decides on all matters. In the end, everything is a political consideration and it is therefore also your responsibility as Prime Minister, or as a government, to make the decision: yes, it is safe, or no, it is not safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u174	My political assessment is that I would strongly oppose the question of whether or not it suits us that a country is safe to be part of a political debate. We do this on the basis of objective facts. Follow-up decisions shall then be taken by the person responsible. We're not gonna do that here in Lower House. That is really unwise, because then you run the risk of arbitrariness. Don't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u175	Now we get that game! So a country report on Syria has already been published two months ago. The conclusion is that all parts of Syria are safe. What are we waiting for? What are you waiting for now? When will there be a decision from the Secretary of State, from the Minister or from you, that we are going to do this, that we are going to help the people who have to go back to a certain region to return, and so on? When? Surely you can give a time limit?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u176	I have said that the Secretary of State will soon inform the Chamber of its views on the situation in Syria and asylum policy. That is the proper order, not on the basis of a political debate. You can't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u177	You say "in the short term." What does that mean: in the short term? It's been two months since that report came out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u178	There is more to be done than simply to "rubber-stamp" on the basis of the notice and to translate it into a decision. There are more things that need to be weighed properly. The Secretary of State will inform the Chamber. That's the right order. We really need to be careful that we do not decide this as a parliament because it is convenient for us. That's not wise. No way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u179	What I missed yesterday with Mr Dijkhoff, I now also miss with Mr Rutte. I miss that at all at the VVD. That is some sense of urgency about the situation. Why is this so important? For example, because there is a very big cultural problem with the huge amount of immigrants we have in the Netherlands. There's a huge housing market problem. That's what Mr Wilders called it. We also have all kinds of other problems. We very much want this problem not to get any bigger. This group of people from Syria should not be granted a permanent residence permit for 100,000 people or so. And now they're gonna get it. Every week you wait longer, more people from Syria can stay here permanently. They can bring their families here; they can use all social services forever. We don't want that. I don't feel any urgency with you. I don't feel a thing about you that we're gonna make you think that we're gonna do that to stay in VVD vocabulary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u180	Well, we did. When Klaas Dijkhoff was still Secretary of State for V and J and I myself was Prime Minister, we managed to reach agreements with Germany and Turkey during the Presidency, thus reducing the enormous flow of asylum seekers to the Netherlands. It's been worked hard and hard. No one has to tell me how important it is that we keep the flow of refugees to Europe and also the flow of real asylum seekers to the Netherlands, manageable and manageable. No one has to tell me that. I fully agree with Mr Baudet; I agree with everyone. But what I do not want is that we would then say: let us decide on the basis of what our politics say that a particular country is safe or not safe. This must be done very carefully, and this is also in line with our duty to provide decent reception for genuine refugees. That's what we're doing here. That has nothing to do with urgency. So just do it: yes. That's what we did in 2016. That deal's closed. Everyone thought it wouldn't happen, but it did. And what Mr Baudet wants here is to take a political decision on something that should not be politically decided but on the basis of facts. And that's not careful, and I'm not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u181	Finally, Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u182	It's not about that failed deal with Erdogan. This is about the people who are in the Netherlands and who have to go back. That's what it's about. Mr Rutte is talking all the time about an issue that is not on the agenda right now. He's talking about the influx of new people. I'm talking about the people who are already here and have to go back. You're not doing anything. You also refuse to mention a deadline. You refuse to mention any time limit. You are simply saying: 'we will come back to it', but also once again 'that is really absurd, I really hope that people will not fall for this 'we should not make a political decision'. Huh? This is a democracy, isn't it? In the end, we decide whether or not to bring people back. That's a political decision. You're a government of this country. Do something!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u183	And so we do that by quietly taking sensible decisions on the basis of objective information, in accordance with normal procedures. That is what we are doing and we are not going to take a political decision here as a parliament on whether or not it is safe in Syria. If we're gonna do that, it's unwise. We really can't do that with each other. I'm really watching for that. Well, Mr. Chairman, we're repeating ourselves very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u184	Yeah, that's what I was gonna say. So really a new point, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u185	One thing. Three or four months ago, when we raised this issue in Parliament, it was said that we are waiting for the country report. That country report was published two and a half months ago. So there's already an expert judgment, so to speak. There's already an objective report. The only thing that has to happen now is just run it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u186	I refer to the previous answer. We're really repeating ourselves. What Baudet wants is political decisions: it is safe in Syria, because that is convenient. That's not how it works. We'll do this carefully. We are trying to manage and limit the flow of asylum to the Netherlands as much as possible, so that this society can handle it. We have strict agreements about who may or may not stay. If it is safe, then it is indeed customary for people to go back where possible. But we're not gonna decide that here in the Chamber. We decide that on the basis of a structured decision-making process and not because it suits us politically. No way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u187	Last summer I met a Syrian family who lives with me in the municipality in Berg and Dal. That is a family that has fled the dictatorial regime of Assad at risk of their own lives. ISIS has been defeated, but Assad is still there. That Syrian family, I say to Mr Baudet, has three children. One is now undergoing training in ICT, the second is training in pharmacy assistant and the third wants to become a police officer. Three Syrian refugees living in the Netherlands...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u188	No, no, no, Mr. Baudet. Mr Jetten has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u189	Mr. Chairman. Syrian refugees fleeing a dictatorial regime. Those who are grateful for the fact that they have been able to find a safe way here and who now also like to contribute to the future of the Netherlands. For ten minutes now all Syrian refugees in the Netherlands have been portrayed as profiteers who want to stay here at all costs. No, Syrian refugees in the Netherlands are people who also want to do something for the Dutch future. Mr Baudet was just not allowed to go to work with Mr Wilders and Mr Rutte. But I would really like to invite Mr Baudet, because the Syrian family is watching this debate, and that is what you think, in your words, that they will all be sent back by plane tomorrow. They will be happy to enter into the conversation with you to tell you what it was like to live under Assad; to tell you what it was like to cross the Mediterranean on a rubber boat; and how it was to be hospitable here in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u190	A brief reaction. Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u191	If Mr Rutte or Mr Wilders want to join us, they are just welcome to join us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u192	Thank you. Then I suggest the Prime Minister move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u193	Mr. Chairman. I had one more question open about the landlords. I just had to stay guilty for a while. Let me give that to Mr Klaver, with whom I thought I had that conversation. Landlords who own more than 50 properties also pay the landlord's tax. But then you're above 50 homes and not below. Then maybe the question remains what if you have 49 or less. Just so you know, I just didn't get it ready. If you have more than 50 properties, you'll be covered by the landlord's tax. Mr. Chairman. Could I use your usual kindness to make the suggestion because of the effect of your hospitality to have a very short suspension?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u194	Yes. We will.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u195	Thank you!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u196	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u197	Mr. Chairman. Education. First of all, it is fortunately not the case that next year's budget is falling. Anyway, that's all at your service, but that's not what we're here for. It is now about the issues that are going on. Maybe I can start with the big issue of the shortage of teachers. That is a very important point for the cabinet. We don't want kids sent home because there's no teacher. No one wants that; you heard that yesterday in the first term of the Chamber. We also don't want children to go to school later or go to school one day less a week. That's all awfully bad. This is why addressing the shortage of teachers is a top priority for this cabinet. That is a financial matter, but it is also important to encourage people who work part-time to work more hours. We want to encourage people to become side-instromer and encourage people who are on the side side, but who want to get to work, to get to work. So we saw today in this slightly rising unemployment rate that there is a positive trend there that more people are applying to the labour market. Technically, this gives a small plus in unemployment, but according to the CBS, that underlying figure is positive. That means that more people are coming in. So they're flowing out of those numbers again. Let us hope that there are also those who opt for these important professions such as care and education. We see more applications for the pabo, so things are starting to work out better in that respect. But we're really not there yet. A great deal of money has been allocated in the coalition agreement, both for salaries and for the workload. The point of these salaries was already in the wake of the previous cabinet. With the Labour Party, of course, we have already done this as a handover from that cabinet to this coalition. This means that from this school year 333 million is available to reduce the workload, and that amounts to 430 million. Let's get right to the point. At present, 285 million people are still in receipt of structural funds for the adjustment of wages in primary education. In normal Dutch: the primary schools. That's a hell of a lot of money. This is already available for this year, so for the calendar year 2019. Unfortunately, no collective agreement has yet been reached. This means that teachers do not yet see this on the pay slips, as opposed to the other education sectors, where they have succeeded. First of all, let me call on the parties to reach a collective agreement quickly. This contributes to increasing the attractiveness of the profession, both by increasing the salary but also by agreeing on, for example, improving teachers' careers, preventing influx into the WW, encouraging the increase of part-time factor and so on. In addition, the Cabinet is prepared, also listening to the first term of the Chamber and the comments made by various parties, to consider in the coming weeks whether additional occasional funding will be available for the resolution of urgent issues relating to the shortage of teachers by 2020. We are going to see what that amount could be in the next few weeks, but first we are asking the social partners to conclude a collective agreement with the money that is available. Because if the lack of teachers has this high urgency, it is also logical that the money for this sector should not be left on the shelf. This could indeed mean, by 2019, that employees in primary education could receive an occasional amount. Fortunately, we also see some positive developments. Indeed, we see that all these approaches to encourage more people are starting to work. I mentioned a number of instruments. You can see, in particular, when it comes to the side-intromers, that people are currently joining, also a lot in the educational support staff. That too is very important. But we are far from there, so much more will have to be done and we are working on this in common. So, make a collective agreement. There's a lot of money available. The cabinet is looking at what is occasionally possible before 2020, but first we are asking for that collective agreement to be concluded.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u198	Has the subject of education been dealt with here?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u199	No, I have more points on education.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u200	Then I suggest we treat it first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u201	Yes. We have been asked how the resources for reducing working pressure can be used properly. At the moment, the signals we are getting about the use of these pressure equipment are positive. Schools feel it's a good thing that they're up to it. By the way, of course, these workloads have only become available from 2018, 2019. In 2020, an initial mid-term review will be launched to see how it works, how it contributes to this work pressure reduction and how it can be adjusted. Of course, there has also been talk of the student debt of many young people. I have listened to that part of the debate most of all. The cabinet has no intention of changing the system of the loan system, which has just been introduced. But, of course, I have listened with great interest to the views of all kinds of political parties on this issue, including proposed adjustments. Questions have been asked about combating undesirable things that are contrary to Western values. I would like to mention that briefly. In regular education we act through the education inspection. We know that Arie Slob, the Minister for Primary and Advanced Education, has asked the inspection to investigate the teaching programme and the whole way of teaching, also in the light of reports on what has happened in a number of primary schools. In addition, this year the House of Representatives will receive the legislative proposal clarifying citizenship assignment. Schools are given the task of actively and purposefully promoting citizenship. A lot happens in higher education. I can keep you up to date on that, but you probably know the things that happen there. The plan is to adopt the same approach in the MBO. Complicated is the informal education, the so-called weekend schools. How do you deal with that? The education inspection cannot carry out its own supervision there. At the moment SZW is working to see exactly what the possibilities are. We are expecting the results of this at the beginning of next year, but we are already working on it, especially with regard to the financial transparency of civil society organisations. That bill goes to the Council of State this year. The first term of the Chamber referred to the tightening up of Article 2 (20) of the Civil Code, the extension of the prohibition of radical organizations. That bill is with the Council of State. At the beginning of 2020, the bill to ban financial flows from non-free countries towards civil society organisations will go to the Council of State. This was reported last Friday by ministers Koolmees and Dekker in a letter to the Chamber. The Christian Union has asked a number of questions about this. The answer runs along the same line. With regard to this package, which concerns money flows, which has to do with making funding transparent and with regard to what we are doing in the area of Article 2 (20), which is now before the Council of State for its opinion, we are also trying to do what is necessary in the education that we cannot control directly through the inspection of education. I would like to put that standard down here once again: no one wants young people to be poisoned with the terrible ideas that we saw in those reports from Nieuwsuur that they are part of informal education.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u202	Have all the questions been answered with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u203	Yeah, about education.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u204	Then I shall go to Mr Asscher.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u205	Positive first. I hear the cabinet acknowledge that more money is needed to combat the shortage of teachers. That's an important breakthrough. None of that was necessary at first. You could and you didn't have to. We agree that we have to. How's it going now? That 285 million is a cigar from your own box. That went wrong when the press release came out just before Princess Day. That's not gonna work. You cannot say: enter into a collective agreement and accept that there is no salary increase; then you may get a little money afterwards. I want to try to solve it differently, because I do appreciate the recognition that more money is needed. I don't hear a limit in the amount of extra money. All I hear is that we need a collective agreement. I think I know it takes at least 580 million. Why? Because you're gonna have to close that pay gap and because people in advanced special education have to do that hard work against a decent salary. But I would like to leave it to the Cabinet to decide how they find that money, make it possible and put it into a collective agreement. So my invitation would be: I appreciate the recognition of the need for extra money, but let us also send the minister on the road with that message: conclude a collective agreement and do not go ahead and demand that that should be done with that cigar from its own box. Get those kids moving fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u206	Let's see if we say the same thing. It's true that the 285 million is already there, only it's on the shelf. So it's not new money. Asscher's right about that, but it's not a cigar out of his own box either. It's money that could be made available to those teachers this year. However, that is a question of whether or not we can conclude this collective agreement. I call on parties to do so. This also has indirect effects on the prevention of influx into the WW and on strengthening the part-time factor. So it all has indirect effects when that collective agreement comes about. In addition, I do not mention amounts. We're really not there yet. We are now looking at what we can do occasionally before 2020 to solve bottlenecks, but we do believe that the parties are now in the process of concluding this collective agreement. That is also a logical order for us in the order. I'll check if we say the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u207	We don't say the same thing about the 285 million, because if you didn't give it, teachers would be on the zero line. So it's not such a big gift to give.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u208	I didn't want to suggest that either. It's just there; that's my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u209	It's right there. Okay. Two. I think we also agree that what is needed is ultimately structural. That's why you didn't want to do those teacher salaries from the investment fund, because that would be structural. So we know that already. You say 'I do not mention a minimum amount' and I say 'I do not mention a maximum amount' and then the Minister has the space to do what is necessary. Then those teachers will know that it makes sense to come to the negotiating table. So far, Minister Slob said: "There is no money. I don't have anything else. There will be a consultation table with the region. We're putting unauthorized people in front of the classroom." That is incredibly bad in education. Now we say to each other: more money is needed. We know you can raise salaries if the incidental amount is high enough. You do not mention a minimum amount, I do not mention a maximum amount and the Minister has it in the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u210	That wasn't a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u211	You learn by doing it, don't you? I'm gonna see if the Prime Minister says the same thing as I do and if he'll just confirm that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u212	Again, I agree that 285 million is not new money, but it is. That is not what I want to suggest either, but it would be nice if this collective agreement were to be concluded quickly. If it is closed, and we ask the partners to do so, then the cabinet is also willing to see what is occasionally possible before 2020. I don't mention amounts, and neither does Asscher. So I think we can agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u213	And we do not mention them in the knowledge that these salaries are generally a structural component, and that is precisely why they should not be included in the investment fund. If "we call it occasional" is the spelling formula, then we still all know what we're going to come up with, namely higher salaries for those teachers. They don't go down again the year after that. You don't want to, because we want to do something about this teacher shortage. I don't mind! I understand how these processes work on your side. I don't want to make it unnecessarily difficult, because I'm just so happy there's finally good news for those teachers. To stay with your bird metaphors, we shouldn't give a dead sparrow to Slob, because then it won't work. He needs real money.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u214	Again, we are considering whether it is possible to do so, occasionally. I hear Asscher's reaction. I think we should leave it at that. I don't get the impression there's a lot of light in there. Or maybe you do? Yeah? He accepts that it's incidental, right? Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u215	Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u216	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u217	Very precise, Mr. Chairman. Sorry. I was just having a debate with Asscher at a distance. I want to be very precise. We want to have this collective agreement and we want to see whether it is possible to make occasional funds available for the solution of the urgent problems by 2020. That's what I'm trying to say here. I'm not gonna do it anymore either, or I'm gonna raise expectations here with Louis Asscher that I can't live up to later. That is why I thought: let us keep it in this constructive ambiguity, of 'I said what I said and he said what he said'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u218	I heard the Prime Minister say in his trade: he accepts that it is occasional. There went, I think, something wrong. I say to you that we simply need structural money to increase these salaries. I accept that you can't give that now, that it's going to happen sometime over the next few weeks. We don't have to make things harder on each other right now. The recognition of the cabinet that more money is needed for this enormous problem that threatens our future also creates an obligation. That's exactly what I was talking about yesterday. The temporary wealth now creates an obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u219	I don't want any misunderstandings later, I swear. So one, first close the collective agreement. If that succeeds, we are prepared to take a serious look at whether it is possible to find occasional funding for bottlenecks by 2020. We don't mention amounts. That's what I can say here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u220	Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u221	Mr. Chairman. That's good. I am glad that the cabinet shows the space that more investment can be made in education. That is a real gain from this debate. But I do have a problem with the way it's presented here. It is a condition that there must be a collective agreement first and that politics then wants to get over it. Maybe we should get rid of that "goodbye" in the way we work here and debate with each other. It would be a good gesture towards education and all those teachers if we showed what we wanted to do anyway. After all, there are these problems in education, whether or not there will be a new collective agreement. If we accept our responsibilities by spending this money, the social partners may also be able to do so by concluding the collective agreement. But I think that "goodbye" is really ruining the whole sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u222	I take note of that, but I do attach great importance to the proper order of things, so that we first ask the social partners to conclude that collective agreement, with money that is already available. And again, the shortage of teachers is of great urgency. This issue is really being helped by the rapid conclusion of the collective agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u223	These days we are working not only on the distribution of money, but also on the trust of people in politics, in this government and in this parliament. What are these teachers supposed to think, who have been struggling for years to continue to give good education, who now sometimes have 60 children in their class? What do they think, now that we say: first we need a collective agreement and then we are going to act as a political act? I am not talking about the occasional, the structural or the exact amount, but about what is our responsibility as a political one, namely that we must act now to reduce the shortage of teachers. This is not the first time that the teachers have to come up with a collective agreement, and then we will get over it. That's a weird way of thinking, isn't it? There is mistrust there, and we want to express confidence in that sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u224	I think it is important to keep a little pressure on it here too. There's a lot of money out there. That's not new money, that's right. It's already forgiven, but it's already ready and it's on the shelf now. It can also come to benefits in 2019; it can also lead to some of the problems in 2019, in part. I'm holding on to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u225	I understand I'm not gonna convince the Prime Minister, but he says keep the pressure on it! The pressure is already on education.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u226	Then go close that collective agreement!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u227	The problems are already enormous. I understand that he's annoyed about governance and unions that may not come out, but you don't have them here! Whatever people are in front of the classroom, they are those kids, they are their parents. That is why I do not think this is the right attitude, the right political culture from which we should work. Keep pressure on education? That pressure is there, and we have to do what we can to make sure that pressure goes down there. If you say this in this order, we won't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u228	I didn't mean that kind of pressure. The pressure on education is there and everyone feels it. It wasn't about that. But I really think it's important to do the best that we can to get that collective agreement. We are talking about a great deal of money that is now lying dead on the shelf, and that can do a great deal in this sector. That's my point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u229	The Prime Minister has touched two points. It was about the collective agreement, about salaries, and it was about radicalisation. I have a question about both, if you don't mind, because he's treated both of them. The first point is salaries. Thank you for the space the cabinet offers. If the collective agreement is in place, funds could occasionally be released to tackle bottlenecks. At the same time, the Prime Minister said that the working method of the work pressure equipment was a substantial sum which I believe amounts to 430 million..... that it is deposited at school level and that the school or staff can take part in deciding how to use it best. There are very good experiences, where it lands very well in those schools and with the staff, where you place that decision very close to the work area. Would it not be good to use this occasional money in the same way if bottlenecks are tackled?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u230	In itself, it is obvious that you then look at the systems of the work pressure equipment. I agree with Mr Segers. The PO Council survey shows that these results are very encouraging with these structural resources. Expenditure at school level has to be agreed. So that is obvious, but let's see how that results exactly in the conversations. It works, so that seems the most logical line.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u231	Thank you for that, a warm encouragement on that point. The second, on this same point, is that I saw a message from the UWV that there is a peak in the number of WW benefits, especially for people in education, in the summer period. Temporary contracts are stopped and are picked up after the summer and then there is a peak in the WW, while there is a shortage and there are bottlenecks. We are not talking about contracts and about employment, but I must say that, given the problems, I find it a very strange tendency that every time you have a peak in unemployment benefit, especially in education at this time. Wouldn't it be good to talk to the employers about this too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u232	The CBS indeed writes that the increase in the number of WW benefits in August is mainly among the educational professions. Mr Koolmees wrote "bizre." I agree with him. It's a recurring phenomenon, CBS writes. It seems to happen every year in the summer months. I understand that Mr Slob will discuss this in his contacts with the sectoral councils.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u233	Now I want to ask a question about radicalisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u234	Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u235	Then the second block, radicalization. In the coalition agreement, two years ago, it was agreed that legislation would be introduced. We want to do something about this foreign financing. We see the effects of foreign funding in informal education. We see that there are money flows from Saudi Arabia and those countries in methods that talk about the death penalty of apostates and who I much like. I must say that it is taking a very long time. We know the transparency bill is there. The ban on anti-democratic organisations is in the hands of the Council of State, and I will look at Minister Dekker, so that's what's coming. But I've got a heart cry coming from me. It's such a broad-based wish here in the Chamber. We have had the debate after debate about radicalisation, about major concerns that live there. It has always been said that we want to do something about this foreign financing, but it takes so long. I can't give people a push from here, but proverbial, virtually a huge push in the back to make this work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u236	I understand. We're doing everything we can. In a number of discussions in the cabinet you will notice that it is extremely complex to give this bill technical form, but encouraged by you we will see if we can speed it up. No one here is trying to slow it down or has an interest in it, quite the contrary. It's complicated to get it right on paper. It listens very closely to how you formulate this and how you regulate it legally. That's gotta be really good. But I agree: the sooner, the better. It's not Dekker and Koolmees. We're really trying to do it. It is now before the beginning of 2020, and if we can do it sooner.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u237	I hear "beginning 2020." That reassures me a bit, because I also heard sounds that it might be in a year's time, and that is very late.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u238	The commitment was presented early 2020 for advice to the Council of the State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u239	It always starts with good will. Let me say it openly: it is of course difficult, because it concerns, for example, countries in the Gulf region where we have trade relations in all kinds of ways. But if you stand for your values, if you stand for your free democratic rule of law and if you stand for the upbringing of a generation of freedom, then there is something at stake and then it may cost a bit. And if we then have to choose between relations with Gulf states or our freedom, I hope that we really do choose our freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u240	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u241	Then Mr Jetten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u242	Yesterday in the debate it became clear that everyone in the Chamber actually sees the teacher shortage that is now there as a very big social problem. It cannot be the case in this country that children cannot go to school one day a week or start their school career a year later because we have too few teachers. That lack of teachers has arisen in the last ten years, and we have not solved that immediately. This cabinet, together with the outgoing cabinet, has already achieved a salary increase of about 9%. We can now see that 330 million in workloads really go to schools and classes. Those are very good steps to make that business more attractive again, but it is not enough yet. I am very pleased that the Prime Minister here recognises that it is a top priority for the Cabinet to continue to reduce this shortage of teachers in the coming year, and that a hand-out has been made to partners, school administrators and trade unions, to help with this by means of occasional money. My question to the Prime Minister is: what if this collective agreement does not work? Does he see a role for the cabinet to help with those talks? What if the occasional money also proves insufficient in the coming year to further reduce the shortage of teachers? What role does the Prime Minister see for the cabinet next year?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u243	Here it goes step by step. I think we should be careful not to go through such a collective bargaining process in public debates, but with Rob Jetten I feel the urgency to make that work. It is not the case that the cabinet is sitting at the table in the form of the minister. These collective agreements are concluded through the sectors, decentralised, but we are, of course, indirectly involved. Anything we can do, we'll do about it. I would rather not speculate about the 'if not', because that might also invite us to put less pressure on it. Or not, because then I won't have anything left to do. The money's there now. It's a lot of money, not a new one and not a cigar, because it's already there, but it has to be spent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u244	I understand very well that the Prime Minister cannot participate in collective bargaining through the Chamber. That's on a different table. But I want to understand what the word "top priority" means. Is it a top priority until the new collective agreement arrives? Hopefully it will be quick and until the cabinet has occasionally made money available, or is it a top priority for the cabinet to follow the influx of new teachers in the coming years and monitor the outflow of teachers? If it turns out that it is insufficient to reduce the shortage of teachers, will it remain at the top of the list of your attention in the coming years?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u245	Yeah, totally. When I used that word 'top priority', I meant the issue that, as was said in various contributions yesterday, children should go to school a year later or not on Friday because there are too few teachers. The whole issue is serious, precisely because it concerns the most beautiful capital the country has: the next generation. That's why we need to get this under control. That's the top priority. A number of things have to be done in there. The collective agreement is important. The cabinet is indirectly involved in this. The money's here. It's not new, but it's there. Two is that I have said that, if we have succeeded, we will see if there can be any occasional money available for workload. That's what I mean by that. They are instruments, but the top priority is this issue, and that goes beyond the money alone. This also affects the promotion of side influx, encouraging people to start working full-time instead of part-time and encouraging people with benefits who could work and choose this beautiful profession to do so, in addition to care, defence and police. I hope that we will be able to solve the whole issue of job vacancies in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u246	It is very good that "top priority" has a broader meaning, as the Prime Minister is giving it now. In the end, it is also important that we all manage to improve the prestige of the teacher's profession. We must let all those men and women who are working every day in these classes know that politics is taking teacher shortages very seriously and that we will do everything we can with the education sector in the coming years to resolve this shortage.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u247	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u248	I have two questions for the Prime Minister. One is about Islamic education, but the first is about teacher shortage. My group, too, is very pleased that extra investment is being made in salaries, in order to make this important teacher's job more attractive. But in addition, as we all know, there is, of course, a shortage. I believe that about half of the people in front of the class work part-time. There is often no alternative, and there is, of course, also a high workload. So I don't want to force anyone to work more, but it might help if people volunteered to work full-time, perhaps with a financial incentive. Can the Cabinet see that? Now you sometimes need two teachers for one job. If you can make one of them on a voluntary basis and if you could stimulate that, it might be a good idea to do so. Can you see what the possibilities are? That could be a huge contribution to the solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u249	Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, That must really be part of the approach to the shortage of teachers. Among them is that school boards go into conversation with employees to see if they can work more. In addition, such a collective agreement can also contribute to stimulating the increase in the part-time factor. So we are looking at all these things, besides the side-inflow and influx of people who want to get started from outside education from a benefit situation or a non-contributory situation. So we have to play the organ completely. But of course this is a very logical factor, because it concerns people who are already in education. Some can indeed no longer work hours, but a lot of people might be willing to go from three days to four or five days. That's gonna be incredible. And you already have those people; they've already been trained. Of course, that's the fastest route.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u250	Finally, could you introduce something from a full-time bonus, or choose a slightly higher salary scale for full-time work? I don't know exactly how to do it, but you could also think about financial incentives to make people work more full-time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u251	Let me just say I'm gonna park that point. We are talking about whether people want to work more. In addition, we will see if this suggestion is workable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u252	Good. Thank you. Let me now turn to a point on which we will probably be less in agreement, namely the Islamic schools. It would be worth something to me if we closed down all the Islamic schools in the Netherlands. It doesn't solve anything just to stop foreign funding, because what happens in those schools is not good, even if it is financed in a different way. We have seen children being taught in a way where they get multiple choice questions about how to deal with gays, Christians or non-believers. Do you have to stone them? Do you have to decapitate them? The most horrible things you have to do with them. I find it incredible that we still, that you still, that your cabinet still, that your party still hasn't learned any lessons from that, even though you are not here on behalf of your party. I've been a Member of Parliament for a while now. I remember a debate, a long time ago, I think it was in 2005 that we conducted here on the basis of similar books. I did that with my then colleague Ayaan Hirsi Ali. Then the exact same thing happened and played the exact same discussion. Then they also said: yes, we have to look at the funding, it is not all schools. Every few years, there are other Islamic schools where young children are filled with hatred. We may not agree on mosques and the nature of Islam, but Mr Prime Minister, take an important step and close all those Islamic schools. It's really much better for children if they go to a public school, a Christian school or whatever. That's better for upbringing, for everything. So close those Islamic schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u253	I want to be very specific about what we do and what we don't agree on. That is also good for the debate. We agree that any message is totally unacceptable that is delivered to a school and to these salafistic forms of education and that is intolerable or antidemocratic. Such messages lead to children getting their backs to society and becoming less and less at home here. I have outlined what measures we are taking in mainstream education, at weekend schools and so on. I think we can all agree on that. What we do not agree on is that if we have freedom of education in the Netherlands, that freedom of education is really there. There is the idea that for some Islam is a religion and for others a political system. So there are different views on this. I don't care what people believe and find. I'm not looking at where they're coming from or where they're going. In the end, I look at what people do and what their actual contribution to society is. If someone in this country is to send Islam or any other current, but often Islam has been abused to send an intolerable and undemocratic message, then I think that the State must come up against it with all its power and strength. That is complex and multifaceted; I have outlined the whole approach to this. What I would not like to say is that if people want to establish and establish a school on the basis of their social views or beliefs, that is not allowed under Article 23, simply because it is Islam, but that is the case if someone is using Islam to pump these kinds of terrible messages and thoughts into children's heads.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u254	But it's not a question of abuse, it's the nature of Islam. That was also the problem with all the teaching material that I have just given you some examples of and that we have all been able to see on Nieuwsuur. All those lyrics are literally in the Qur'an. That's not a difference of interpretation, but that's literally what's in a holy book. It says how to deal with Christians, apostates, homophiles and Jews. Those are literal texts from the Koran. That's not my interpretation. You know, as adults, we can disagree on this. I know we do. We want to get rid of it, and you don't want to. But I said yesterday that my group too, for those little children, those little Muslim children, boys and girls, wants them to grow up fully in Dutch society, that they will find a job, that they will have friends and that they will not grow up with hatred of Christians, Jews or someone who has left Islam. We shouldn't want that. That means, because they are all literal texts from the Koran, that after all these years and all those examples of where it goes wrong we should at least agree that we should simply ban Islam schools for underage children in the Netherlands. Not to give me what I want, but to ensure that those children in the Netherlands receive normal education and education.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u255	We agreed until the last minute. Indeed, we agree that if the Qur'an may also be the Bible, but in this case it is about the Qur'an being abused to pump into children intolerance or anti-democratic messages by presenting the kind of terrible multi-choice questions that Mr Wilders quoted yesterday and which are also reflected in the reports that bring them back to society, it is impossible for us to take any measures that are possible to prevent that. That's complicated, but that's what we have to do, and that's what we're doing. The second question is whether the fact that someone who is a Muslim and wants to establish a school under Article 23 is in itself a reason to oppose it. Because that also has to do with the social conception of faith, in this case Islam, and whether you see it as faith or as a political system. That was also at the heart of the debate that Geert Wilders, Maxime Verhagen and I had in 2010, all in the pre-, pre-, pre-formation of the first cabinet in which the PVV supported. Then we listened to Geert Wilders, who said: beware, boys, Islam a, b and c: danger. We said: we respect your opinion, but we differ fundamentally on this. We then came out with a statement from Maxime Verhagen and me on the one hand and Geert Wilders on the other about the place of Islam in society. There is therefore a difference of opinion. But there is absolutely no difference of opinion and we stand shoulder to shoulder when it comes to using faith for intolerance, anti-democratic messages or anything that goes against our democratic rule of law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u256	Finally. What we did in 2010 was political and sensible at the time. Despite differences of opinion, you can at that moment see if you can do business politically with each other. But this is about young children. But this is not a political game. These are young children going to class. I say to you: it is not a question of abuse of Islam. They learn the ideology of Islam. Even without those multiple-choice questions, it's in a sacred book, in the Qur'an. I didn't write it, but it's in that book. It says you have to stone apostates, throw homosexuals off high buildings, and so on. That is not an interpretation difference, that is the Islamic doctrine. That's not the abuse of the doctrine, it's in the doctrine. If there's anything in my or your election program and you use it, you don't abuse it, but that's what it says.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u257	That message...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u258	Fortunately, this is not in our election programs. But this is in a book, and so, in the interests of those children, those Islamic schools, which we both do best, must be closed tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u259	Anyone who literally teaches that idea in that way, and we have seen it in the report, can count on the fact that, through the education inspection in mainstream education or along all the roads I have just outlined at the weekend schools, we are doing everything we can to prevent it. That's what I stand for. I also stand for the fact that this cabinet has said for good reasons that we attach importance to Article 23 of the Constitution, freedom of education.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u260	I wanted to join the first part of Wilders' question, namely that so many teachers work part-time. I wouldn't want us to pretend now that that's up to those teachers. It is very often the case that when a teacher talks with his or her partner, it is almost automatically that the other person starts to work more than the teacher because the salary is so much lower. So that actually comes back to the same point. I'm very much in favour of trying to encourage people to make more hours, but you'll have to raise salaries for that too. I totally agree with anyone who says that money is not the solution, that you have not solved it tomorrow. That's right. But money is the problem now. So let's take the profit of the debate and say: the cabinet recognises that money is the problem, it's a top priority. In the collective agreement clauses, I taste a little "oh no, first the collective agreement and then money, otherwise they go too much..." These are not the grabs of our society. Those teachers are in their right. They have started to strike and move, not for themselves but for the next generation. I think it's much better to negotiate with them from that point of view. In this case, it should be noted that the Commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the permissible sound If that's what the coalition needs, I'll accept it. But don't treat those teachers like grabs, but like the builders of our future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u261	I fully agree with that last sentence and, in fact, with Mr Asscher's analysis. I certainly didn't want to give you another impression. Teachers are heroes. They provide the largest capital we have. They ensure that the children of our society, our future, are prepared. No one here can guarantee the outcome of life and how things work. We can guarantee that everyone will have the maximum chance of appearing at the start. Whether you're someone with brains in abundance, golden hands in abundance or with talents in a particular direction, you need to get a chance to make something of your life. Someone literally said it yesterday, I thought. Mr. Chairman. A few things about the care. The question was asked whether the healthcare system is still sustainable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u262	Mr Kuzu, on the previous point?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u263	Before we go to the head of care, back to the head of education. I want to talk about the social loan system. We have talked about teachers' salaries and an important point about education as a whole, but I miss the social loan system section.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u264	I have said that I have taken note of the debates between the political parties in the Chamber. The cabinet does not intend to make proposals to change the system. I'm listening. This seems to me to be all part of the 2021 election campaign. So I did not think it appropriate to give a whole reflection on that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u265	In any case, that is contrary to what was discussed yesterday during the debate. At that time there were a number of political parties, including coalition groups, who wanted to see steps taken before the 2021 election campaign. The Prime Minister has a sensitive political antenna. He has seen that there is now a majority to at least adjust the loan system. Many political parties indicate: let's introduce that basic grant. What's the government's position on that? Does the cabinet intend to start making adjustments for the next school year if there is a request from the Chamber which can count on a majority?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u266	No. The cabinet holds on to the loan system. That is also the case in the agreements of the government agreement. This seems to me to be part of an election campaign.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u267	Then it is a pity to note that the Prime Minister's politically sensitive antenna is abandoning him here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u268	Okay. I'm gonna have to do it with that. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to the care. As I said, the sustainability of the healthcare system is an important issue. That is why we must also come forward with proposals for the summer of 2020. They're working on it. In consultation with all the parties involved, we are exploring that. According to all sorts of states, we have the best health care in Europe. Then you may also have one of the world's best healthcare systems. That costs a few dimes, but that is allowed, because it is something very important. It's something very important. There have been agreements with everyone actually made with patients, insurers, hospitals, general practitioners, medical specialists, municipalities, ggz and community care services about the right care in the right place, raising quality, reducing regulatory pressure, tackling labour market problems, but also about controlling cost increases. We must try to do so without reducing the package or cutting it into essential provisions. Why is that necessary? Because in the end, you want to keep that system affordable and whole for the future. It's really a precious one, but it's not an easy possession. It's not possession without worries. So we are going to work in the near future to ensure that it is affordable in the long term. I think that I am really optimistic about this, but it is also one of the reasons why it is so important that our economy continues to perform. Now, in jargon, that's the denominator effect. The question is how the economy is growing. It is important that it continues to develop positively in the coming years. This goes back to the earlier discussion on earning capacity, but also on the discussion on the pension system and the climate. Then a few specific questions. I find the approach outlined by Mrs Marijnissen on small-scale initiatives, on walk-in functions, sympathetic. Among other things, she mentioned the Knarrenhof, Het Polder Hofje and Together Home in Gemert. The ministers of VWS and BZK work together with municipalities, housing corporations and health insurance companies in a task force living and caring. It will also look at how to encourage parties to present locally what is needed in terms of housing provision and to link concrete actions to it. In addition, the programme Langer Thuis naturally focuses on the big issue of living and caring. Among other things, there is the incentive scheme for living and caring, which allows us to further stimulate residents' initiatives and initiatives similar to the care neighbourhoods. Then there was Mr Klaver's question on the issue of specialised youth care clinics and centres of expertise. Like Mr Klaver, the cabinet considers it important that good help is also available for children with complex, minor problems. It is really important to prevent these young people from being without appropriate help. I understand that there is now an amendment by GroenLinks to the VWS budget. This is intended to release an amount of up to 26 million, with cover to be provided. The idea is that scattered across the country comes a number of centres in which different expertises are present under one roof, as Mr Klaver outlined. The aim is that young people who need immediate help can also get here within a short period of time. The lead for these centres lies with the Empire, in consultation with municipalities. The cabinet can endorse the purpose of the amendment. Coverage seems right. However, that must of course be further worked out in the relevant budgets. Then...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u269	Dan? Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u270	Anything else?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u271	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u272	Then I actually come to a number of more medical-ethical issues. This was about the hard side of the care, the organizational side of the care. Well, it's not hard. Everything there is softly happy. I'll be right back to more issues of euthanasia and abortion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u273	Then I'm going to see Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u274	I'd be happy to wait till the end of the block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u275	That's good, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u276	I wanted to thank the Prime Minister for his response. I am very glad that we can arrange something here for this group of children with such serious problems, which cannot be helped very well at the moment. I really think this is a wonderful outcome to the debate today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u277	So you don't need a second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u278	I'd like to ask the Prime Minister a few questions about care for the elderly. We once had 80,000 places in the Netherlands in the nursing homes and 80,000 places in the nursing homes. Care homes were for the people who weren't good enough to stay home, but good enough not to go to a nursing home. To our great regret, my colleague Mrs Agema has fought for a long time to keep them. There's almost no more of them now. Some have been converted into nursing homes. We've got about 100,000 places there now. We can already see that drivers in the care sector, but doctors also say that there are already 14,000 people who have no place at the moment because of the disappearance of nursing homes. They need acute intensive care because they are old and are getting older, but they have nowhere to go. They have to stay at home, and they can't do that, not even with home care when they have to go to a care facility. How are you gonna do that? How are you gonna fix that? Again, I'd like to make it very, very concrete. There are now 14,000 older people waiting. I'm not making that number up in one place, but they're not getting it. How are you gonna fix that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u279	That question was not put by Mr Wilders yesterday in the first term. I don't blame him for that. Based on the knowledge I have of care for the elderly, I think I can serve Mr Wilders for three quarters, but I want to serve him for one hundred percent, so allow me to do so in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u280	Yes, I will, of course, allow it, because I am concerned about the answer. Perhaps the Prime Minister could also take one question, which would be my follow-up question. The documents show that there are now 100,000 people with an indication that they need intensive dementia care and that there will be 200,000 in the year 2040.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u281	This is included in the second term: 100,000/200,000 intensive dementia care.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u282	How do we solve that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u283	I'll take this question with me in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u284	At least yesterday I talked about the nurses and the workload they are experiencing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u285	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u286	Three quarters of those nurses are thinking about looking for another job. The main reasons they give are the workload and the wage. That may seem familiar to us, but it is just as essential a problem as that of the teachers. After all, the man sitting next to you, Hugo the Young, can find too few people. If anyone else leaves the job, it's gonna be even harder. Here too, the cabinet cannot complain about too little money. Here too, we need to be aware of what is now needed in society. This means that there has to be room to better reward nurses and to increase the workload, so that more people choose that profession instead of less.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u287	I agree, let me start with this: how important it is that we get the vacancies filled out. The same applies to the respect that we can only have with each other on a day like today, not only for the teachers, but also for the people who work for us all in care and do fantastic work there. I notice that myself and I see it all in private in every way possible. If you look at the contract wage development over the last ten years, you can see that the average of this, regardless of whether it is in the care or the government as a whole et cetera, is in line with what has happened elsewhere. If this was Mr Asscher's point, perhaps I did not fully understand him. The average in care over all these years is 1.6%. For sectors such as the market and government, this is both 1.5%. So it's even higher. In that sense, you can also see that in the years 2017 and 2018, the number of employees in the nursing homes increased by 18,500 people. That means about eight extra employees per nursing home. For 2019, so for this year, the nursing homes have submitted quality plans for an additional 19,000 people. The available resources............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Even in the year 2020, extra money will go to care, including for young people. Another 50 million extra will be made available through the Work in Care Programme, making over 400 million available in total. So much is happening. Fortunately, we now also see that the number of people working there is actually increasing. This does not eliminate all the bottlenecks, but an average of eight people per nursing home location is in any case an improvement. And much more needs to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u288	It is quite a contrast to say to the companies: you should pay 5% more, otherwise we will do something, and to look at what you have in control, and then say: well, 1.5%, that seems market-oriented, that's enough. I don't think that's right. I think the problems of finding people not only have to do with the fact that it can be hard work, but also beautiful work, but also with the reward. Now we also see that there is money left in healthcare and that under-spending is expected last year, this year and next year. My appeal would be: if we all consider this to be important, and I believe that this is a huge social task, then create the space to use that money also for working conditions, for better pay. How bad would it be, with all the big problems we face, if the nurses were to make a little more progress than 1.5%? In my view, this is not only not a problem, but it would be a good thing and an expression of the fact that they are doing important work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u289	It was not 1.5% this year or last year, but that is the average over the last ten years, which is in line with what has been paid in the market and in the government. In 2020, the additional resources will be used, among other things, to compensate for wages. Let me take a look at the 3 billion that will be added to healthcare expenditure in 2019. There is 88 billion available for total healthcare expenditure by 2020, i.e. 3 billion more than in 2019. Over the entire cabinet period, this increase is about EUR 15 billion, which is faster and more than any other public sector. In 2020, these additional resources will be used to compensate wages. Approximately 1.9 billion extra is available for wage and price developments, of which two thirds go to wage increases. Through the government's contribution to working conditions, the cabinet provides sufficient resources to enable employers to conclude market-based collective agreements, because they must ultimately do so. That has always been the case. When in the crisis years a number of sectors were on the zero line, you saw that resources were always available for market-based working conditions in the healthcare sector. This also applies to this cabinet period. As a result, contract wage increases are by far the most important part of working conditions. In that sense, I think we are doing it neatly, that there is enough money available and that is why we are also able to conclude these collective agreements. I agree with Mr Asscher that this is really necessary to ensure that it is a place where people are happy to do their job.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u290	Finally, Mr Asscher, but it is not necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u291	Very briefly and then I don't have to respond. Then I assume that the Minister will have the opportunity to use the resources that would otherwise flow back into the treasury to improve the working conditions in the care sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u292	In the case of long-term care, you can see that expenditure is developing in line with the estimates from the starting note, when the cabinet started. In curative care, so the hospital sector, you see some space, among other things because we have been able to curb the price of medicine. Furthermore, the estimates in the budget have been adjusted because the actual healthcare expenditure in recent years has been somewhat lower, so we have not reduced the package or given people less care. This translates into lower total healthcare expenditure. This is about 1.3 billion by 2020; not long-term care but curative care. This has also been incorporated into total healthcare expenditure. They will rise again next year to 88 billion, and again, over the entire cabinet period by 15 billion. In the final analysis, because drug prices are falling or because actual spending in the curative sector is slightly lower than initially estimated, it is not necessary to leave all of them in place, because we are able to conclude market-based collective agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u293	I've talked to this Prime Minister before. I would suggest that we see if we can get more people in the workplace in health care, education and the police. That's one way to cut back the overhead and just let people do their job. You can see that in care, there are all heroes working, great people, helping the elderly and other sick. Like in education and in the police, those people want to make a career. If they want to make a career now and want a salary scale higher, they often go to jobs that are not exercised on the work floor. In health care, for example, they become a care manager. In education, for example, they come in the sphere of executives. And with the police, they'll be non-armed, as it's called, and they'll end up in management. Those people do that when they actually prefer to practice their trade on those beds, in front of that classroom and as an agent on that street. But of course they do because, rightly, they want a salary increase. Would it not be possible to reduce the overhead a little bit and make it more possible, both in health care and in education and in the police force, for people to get that salary increase and get that higher position, but simply to stay on the bed, stand in front of the classroom and just take care of safety on the street? Because that's their heart. That's what they want. And you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u294	What we are doing is trying to reduce the regulatory burden in health care. It's being worked on incredibly hard. This is done at the level of nursing homes, at nursing homes at more locations that work together, but also in the hospital sector. Very broad work is being done to defeat that monster of rule pressure. They're working hard on that. This also means in many cases that management layers can disappear. I told you before, you'd want the reverse pyramid. You start out as chief of police, and you end up a street cop. Only the very best will become a street cop. That's the way it should be. The reverse pyramid. You start as director of the nursing home and sometimes you can grow into the position of nurse. There are very few people who can do that. Those are the very best. That would actually be your dream. The reverse pyramid. So I think there are two things going on here that both matter. The first is the question of reducing the pressure on regulation. It's being worked on incredibly hard. The second is, of course, how do you see career paths? This is, of course, also a debate that must be held in a sector itself. Of course, we have limited influence on this. It is also a matter for the nursing homes, hospitals and the sectors themselves: how do you organise that it is also possible for exceptional specialists to earn more in their profession without leading? Of course, that happened to the nurses with the nurse-practiceers and the physician assistants. That's what happened at the dentist's office. I don't know if all those functions are still called and have those titles. Maybe the name has changed again, but it's the HBO-educated nurses who could grow a little higher and earn a little more without having to lead. What Mr Wilders is saying, therefore, I find very sympathetic. Of course, the possibilities for us to intervene are limited, but I do agree: prevent the best nurse from leading. Maybe he or she can't do it so well at all. You'll lose a good nurse and you might have a less good supervisor; or maybe you'll get lucky and you'll have a good supervisor. But anyway, the number of places for executives doesn't have to increase any further.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u295	Of course the Prime Minister is right. If you make fewer rules, part of it happens by itself. That's really good, too. He's also right when it comes to the fact that the most beautiful job isn't the principal's job, it's the one that's on that bed. Still. In hospitals and elsewhere, I meet people who say, "Mr. Wilders, I do what I like best and as long as I can handle it physically, I want to keep doing it. But, yeah, I have high school kids, too. I'd like a nicer house, too. So I also want to make a career, and I can still only do that if I go to that management job." That certainly applies in the hospitals. That is a shame, because those people are going to do it because they want to go a step further in their lives, but they really want to stay on that bed. Again, the same goes for the police. That's a government agency. Education may be more about collective agreements, but still. I am not saying that nothing is happening, but here is really a huge opportunity to make people happy and at the same time to make sure that we have less overhead. I would therefore ask you to look again at these three sectors and, in due course, to inform the Chamber, perhaps in the course of the budgetary discussions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u296	Let me take a look at this form: what is practical about that? I don't know if it's gonna work that fast. This is complicated. For example, I'm looking at the nurse. What you don't think I want is that the salary automatically goes to the next scale if someone stays a nurse and doesn't grow into a leading position. So the question is: how do I encourage people, including in other sectors, to be prepared, for example, to specialise further or to tackle training tasks? That sort of thing. Of course, that kind of thing happens in a lot of places. That's not new in itself. Let me take a look behind me: is that how the budget works? I hear Hugo de Jonge say that it will succeed in ensuring budgetary treatment. That's what we're gonna do. Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u297	Thank you very much, because you're right. I mean, of course, someone who has already qualified for a higher, better paid position, and who thus meets the requirements, but who prefers to stay on the job floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u298	But I meant that it is often someone who is going to do even more specialised work in the workplace, or who is going to train others. Then you're not a supervisor, but then you stay in your business, on the work floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u299	I'll take this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u300	I hear De Jonge say that there will be a letter on that point before the budget debate. Thanks for the suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u301	Perhaps the same letter could address the question of how we are dealing with deficits that are already occurring in practice, or perhaps the Prime Minister already has the answer? Unfortunately, after all the good debates we have had in committee on how to get more hands on the bed, I hear that even at this time home care organisations should not give home and that they simply cannot deliver people. I find that extremely tragic, when it comes to care in the last period of life, for example. Terminal home care is sought, but it is said that it will not succeed in the next few nights. That affects people so deeply and gives so much understandable displeasure that my question is: do we now have a picture of where those holes fall and can we still come up with unorthodox measures to provide for them?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u302	It also takes a bit of the question that Geert Wilders asked about care for the elderly and intensive dementia care. I'll see what happens in second term for the next few hours. Then I put Van der Staaij's question next to Wilders' question. Mr. Chairman. Then there are a few other things about care, not about hospitals and nursing homes, but about a number of other aspects. The first is, of course, the issue of drug use and the fight against addiction. I recognize, of course, everyone's concerns about the normalization of hard drug use. The current use rates, as well as the self-evident use of hard drugs during dating, are extremely undesirable in this cabinet. Both the Ministry of Justice and Security are working hard to counter this standardisation. A letter on drug prevention policy was sent by Paul Blokhuis, the Secretary of State of VWS. It sets out the measures we are taking. Among other things, the Opium Act will be extended with an additional list of banned substances. That list prohibits in one instance four groups of dangerous new psychoactive substances. We also work with the Trimbos Institute to see what we can do to prevent young people from starting to use drugs. Soon, the first meeting of a platform with experts and stakeholders will be to see where there are still white spots in this approach. There are many other things that I will not name here; they are already laid down in a letter to the Chamber. There's a lot going on. These are a number of elements, but much more is happening. I refer, among other things, to Mr Grapperhaus' letter of 9 July on synthetic drugs. There is also cooperation with the Trimbos Institute to develop a campaign in which drug users are reminded of the negative effects of use on the environment, but I also spoke about crime this morning. A few specific questions about countering the normalization of drug use, testing drugs and the experiment closed coffeeshop chain. First of all, drug testing is important. I don't think you should abolish them. First of all, they provide information, including on new drugs. Secondly, it is also a time to warn against the risks. That doesn't mean you can test drugs anywhere. For example, it has not been possible for a number of years to have drugs tested at festivals. The purpose of the experiment with the closed coffeeshop chain is to see if it's possible to do it in ten municipalities, that you've closed it down and that you're reducing crime. That's the purpose of this experiment. Attention is paid to the effects on public health, nuisance and crime. That also gives us information about possible sneaking standardisation. Then it is up to another cabinet to start working on these results. A debate is scheduled on 10 October between the Chamber and the Secretary of State of VWS to discuss the wider issue of drug prevention policy and addiction care. Mr. Chairman. Then questions were asked by member Van der Staaij about euthanasia. On behalf of the cabinet, I would like to stress the great importance of the protection of life. In the Act of Review of End of Life upon request and assistance in suicide, i.e. euthanasia legislation, attempts have been made to balance the protection of life, self-determination and mercy. One value is not more important than the other. The euthanasia legislation has six due diligence requirements that protect life and ensure careful execution. Each euthanasia is reported to an independent committee consisting of a doctor, an ethicist and a lawyer. It finally assesses whether the euthanasia has been performed in accordance with due diligence. Fortunately, it is very rare that implementation is considered careless. This was less than 0.1% of the notifications in 2018. It was six out of a total of 6,126. However, where there is international criticism, the cabinet takes it very seriously. We will therefore carefully examine the recommendations made by the United Nations Human Rights Committee. These have not led us to change the euthanasia legislation so far. Those were the issues raised yesterday in the debate on health care. Mr President, if I may, I come to the following subject: security. We have already talked very extensively about undermining this morning. There is also the question of social law. Questions have been asked about that. As a cabinet, of course, we see the enormous urgency of changing the legal aid that has been financed. The fee for lawyers must be increased in the long term if we are to keep the business attractive. In this respect, the mandate set out in the coalition agreement is perfectly clear and, we believe, it is also feasible to implement these reforms within the budgetary framework. Within a budget of about 400 million it can and should be done better. And if you look internationally, you can see that the Netherlands spends relatively much money on legal aid. Last year, the Minister for Legal Protection outlined the outlines of a new system. I won't pick them all up. Its implementation is, of course, now in full swing. Perhaps I can also refer to the debates that have taken place on this subject. Mr. Chairman. Then questions have been asked about trafficking in human beings. Mr President, shall I discuss all the points on this subject?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u303	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u304	With regard to tackling abuses in prostitution, there was a question about police capacity. And what about the bill on regulation prostitution? The answer is as follows. The preparation of the bill regulation sex work has taken more time than initially expected. That's just a fact. It is really about very precise accuracy in the elaboration of the privacy aspects. That bill will now be in consultation within a few weeks. The so-called pimp ban has become part of the bill on this regulation of sex work. That proposal will therefore be consulted within a few weeks. It has not been possible to speed up this process on one part, because of the overall coherence of the individual provisions. Then, of course, there was also a more specific question from the SGP, and of course also from the Christian Union, about dealing with trafficking in human beings. The approach to trafficking in human beings is one of the main priorities of the cabinet; look also at the Action Plan Together against trafficking in human beings, in which several ministries participate. Twenty additional detectives are now being trained every year within the police as a certified detective for trafficking in human beings. And all the first-line police officers involved in their daily work are trained to recognise signs of trafficking in human beings. With regard to the specific suggestion made by the Christian Union to invest 10 million more in the capacity of the police in this area, we are in favour of this and await a possible motion. I thought that was an initiative by Mr Segers, with or without the Labour Party... with the Labour Party, I hear Mr Segers now say. So I'll wait and see. There has also been talk of the vice police, by Mr Klaver. Yes, the number of sex cases is increasing, partly under the influence of social awareness, discussions such as MeToo and a changed sense of standard in society. Also, increasing digitalization simply makes abuse easier. This cabinet attaches particular importance to dealing with sexual crimes, which affect the personal integrity of the victims and leave them in touch with the lives and well-being of the victims. At the moment, 614 Vice detectives are working on 3,600 cases. We recognise the importance of the suggestion made by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance on this point to look at the capacity of the vice police. We must, of course, bear in mind that difficult choices are inevitable in dealing with crime; we must always choose in scarcity. And vice detectives are specialized policemen who aren't just available. But we are prepared to meet the wish that Jesse Klaver expressed here yesterday, and we are waiting for a possible motion on that point. Geert Wilders spoke yesterday at the beginning of his speech about his trial. Last week, the Chamber decided to hold a debate on this matter when the case is no longer under the jurisdiction of the Court. That's a matter of weighing up: do you do that before or after? This was also apparent yesterday from the interruption that Mr Wilders received from Mr Dijkhoff. I guess it's never exactly one or the other. I think, considering everything, it's wise, on balance, to do it after the trial. I think extreme restraint is important as long as such a case is under trial. But I understand perfectly well that you can look at it differently. In any event, in his letter of 10 September, the Minister of Justice undertook to inform the Chamber in detail as soon as that case was no longer under the jurisdiction of the Court. There will also be a debate, I understand, in which I myself will be present.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u305	To begin with, Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u306	Surely the Prime Minister can't be serious... He can't be serious about saying, "I'm not gonna say anything about it." I can only ask my colleagues that. They are my equals, in a constitutional sense. I could ask them to make a request. But you are standing here, at least on behalf of the government, on behalf of your predecessors, on behalf of the cabinet and therefore also on behalf of the former Minister of Justice. I could ask you for an answer. I said yesterday that it was proven that many MPs and also many people outside this Chamber - at least on behalf of officials from the Ministry of Justice were interrogated at the Public Prosecutor's Office. I'm not even talking about politics. They sent defenses to the D.A.'s office. They helped with the legal foundation, in the vein of, "Then we're gonna fix that" you have to use. They've had the wish to request the requisition. You can't be serious, can you? Then you throw me again in front of the wolves of that court, the court, I have to say who might then condemn me. I hope not, of course, but it's possible. Afterwards, if you're here in the Chamber, it turns out you might agree with me. Once again, I am already sorry about my colleagues, but I can really ask you for an answer and a ruling on what you think of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u307	I told you, I get that question. I also understand that you can have a debate on this. I also believe that the regulation showed that there are very different views in the Chamber. In the end, a narrow majority said: it would be wiser to have that debate on the proceedings of the prosecution when the case is no longer under the jurisdiction of the court. There was a narrow majority for that. So there are differences of opinion. That's what you heard yesterday in the interruption debate between Dijkhoff and Wilders. I am one of those who think it is wise to do so. It is also used to exercise extreme restraint as long as a case is before the courts. I understand very well what impact that has on people when something like that happens. That's not the point at all. But I belong to that small majority, perhaps, here in the Chamber, which says: it is wise to do so when that case is no longer under the courts. We have also agreed to the presence of Mr Grapperhaus and myself. We will simply have that debate here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u308	Mr. Prime Minister, that won't do me any good! That's mustard after dinner. That's talking about the execution after it's already taken place. You cannot seriously mean that you say: we have a debate, I will be there, Grapperhaus has already promised and we will do so after the verdict. The problem is quite apart from what you think of my statements, hear that I may be in front of that judge for the wrong reason, namely because officials have interfered in my lawsuit. If that is established in advance, perhaps you should conclude that the trial should not have taken place and that the trias politician has been violated. As Prime Minister, I'm allowed to ask you to give an opinion on that, aren't I? Once again, you are here for me state-law the government and therefore responsible not guilty of what your ministers have done. I say that apart from the fact that you are also mentioned in it. As you know, Minister Grapperhaus also wiped out your name. It said, "almost the same line as the mp." He wiped that away. That became known later. I am not going to point that out now, but I am calling for an answer at least now. I find it unacceptable that any member of the government, unlike a colleague, should not even indicate what he thinks when the debate is later. Again, I am not talking about what has happened politically, but only about what is in the documents that Minister Grapperhaus has already sent publicly to the Chamber. Those are the WOB documents and those are also the documents that were made public by order of the court and in which everything is written. Anyone, any colleague can see that. Every colleague here, as well as a lawyer in the country, has already said: that cannot be done. I'd also like to hear from you that you don't think that's possible. Or that it can. But I hope you're also saying it can't be done. You can't say I'm not going to do that before the verdict. Of course, it runs in the Chamber right along the lines of the coalition. The coalition and DENK said we're not gonna do that right now. The entire opposition found further: we're going to do that now. So judge and say whether or not you think that what happened by officials of the Ministry of Justice in a trial against the leader of the opposition does not pass.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u309	I just outlined that I think it's a dilemma, because in general, you have to be very reluctant in cases that are under the courts. Furthermore, Wilders' questions were also raised by him at the court hearing. It's really at court now, I think, how it's handled in this criminal case. I never meddled in individual criminal matters myself. What Grapperhaus writes about the Chamber is that to Opstelten, after that decision is made, whether and when you should inform Rutte about it. I think that is a logical question, but that is after the decision has been taken. That's where I turn up in that letter from Grapperhaus. I find it really unwise to do this in a case that is under the courts and in which these specific questions were raised by Geert Wilders at the court hearing, because then there is a threat of political influence. Where Wilders is concerned about this political influence, it threatens it when I start talking about it now. I agree with him that it's not a black and white shop. It's never a black and white shop, because it's just how you weigh this. But in this case, I find it really unwise to talk about it. I also have to deal with the Court's statement that we are having this debate after the ruling. I get that statement from the Chamber. It is a small majority, but I do understand what that small majority has said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u310	Two things. First of all, I didn't mean "when do we inform the Chamber" when I said you were wiped out. I meant what we got from you after the court ordered it. It is written in the margin by a director of the Ministry: almost the same line as the mp. That's what it says with pencil, and that's what Grapperhaus did. So that is not about: when should we inform the Prime Minister? So you'll be there at several times, but we'll talk about that later. Once again, I am talking about the fact that you cannot say that I cannot ask you for an opinion on this now because of the trias politician. That trias politician has just been violated! Friend and enemy, also in law in the Netherlands, agree on what those officials have done. They have their hatred and disgust at me. They have also said that by helping the Public Prosecutor, by defending the Public Prosecutor's Office, by wanting to see documents and by wanting to do all that sort of thing. That is acceptable to no Dutchman, let alone an opposition member. That is where the trias politician went wrong and you cannot say: that went wrong then, but we are not going to fix that now, because now the trias politician. That's... That's... "No one" is too soft a word, because it's fake when that happens. I can't force you to make a choice, but I do think I can force you to give an answer. You have to answer the question of what happened, because unlike my colleagues, you are the only government I can ask for a ruling and information. Mr President, if the Prime Minister refuses, I have a point of order. I would ask for a roll-call vote on whether the Prime Minister should answer my question about what has been done by officials to the Public Prosecutor's Office in violation of the trias politicians. Does he think that's possible or can't be? I want that answer and I want a roll-call vote on it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u311	Mr President, first of all, my answer. Nor can I be forced into criminal proceedings by a roll-call vote. I have to be clear about that too. I'm making a trade-off, and I've already said that this trade-off is never black and white. I also understand Mr Wilders' speech very well. That is also justifiable, and that is also apparent when you look at the vote in the Chamber on when the debate should take place. So it's not weird what he says, but in the end it's a matter of what you find. After careful consideration, I have come to the conclusion that it is wise, precisely because these matters have been raised in the court, not to make any statements about what I think of them. It is now really up to the court to do so, but I will remain fully available with Grapperhaus for a debate with the Chamber after that ruling. That's an idea. If there is a majority in the Chamber for the position that Rutte should find something of it, then I still think that I should not interfere in a criminal case that is still before the court and which is still under the court. I think the decision to do it in that order is sensible. I do not want to say that the other view is not good at all, but ultimately it is a consideration. What are you doing here and how do you prevent the political influence of that case from arising by talking here in the Chamber about an issue about which Geert Wilders also made his comments in a court hearing. They are part of the discussion on how to proceed with this criminal case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u312	Officials are under ministerial responsibility. For me, you represent them under state law. You're the Prime Minister, you represent the government. Officials, under the responsibility of the Minister, former Minister Opstelten, have already interfered in that case. They already have. There's no question about that anymore. They've already done that. And now that they've done that, I'm just asking you to say, "They shouldn't have done that." Or, if you think they could have done that, you say, "They could have done that." I can't imagine the latter, but I can't force you to do that. So what's already happened. No speculation about what would or would not be political, just about what has already happened and what has been given to the whole Chamber. This has been done on behalf of the government, under ministerial responsibility, and you cannot now get away with saying, "I am not going to interfere in a trial." People have already done so on your behalf, at least under state law. They have already done so, and that is why you need to answer it now and you cannot get away with saying, "I won't do it, because it's under the judge."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u313	It is precisely these questions and this issue that were raised at the plenary session. It's part of that case now. If I'm gonna talk about that now and find out about this whole fact-finding complex, I'm gonna meddle politically in that case. That is my view and that is why I do not. A majority in the Chamber also said: 'Let's do that debate after the verdict', precisely in order to avoid that political influence. That is a genuine consideration that I have made and the conclusion I have drawn, and the Chamber has been informed through two letters from Grapperhaus. Those things are out in the open. They may also be part of the further discussion that we are about to have when a debate is taking place, but I think that is the right order.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u314	Okay. I think there has been enough discussion on this subject. Mr. Wilders...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u315	No other questions about safety? Mrs. Marijnissen, I thought, had...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u316	Well, there's an order proposal from Mr. Wilders. He wants a roll-call vote on a proposal...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u317	Mr President, I really have to say quite honestly: if the majority were to say 'you have to find something', then I would still consider whether I can do so as Prime Minister. I find that really complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u318	Yes. Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u319	For the record, we supported Mr Wilders' request for a debate. I think the Prime Minister can go into that in substance, but I do not agree that this would be an order proposal. Because if we were to vote every time we didn't get the Prime Minister's desired answer, we'd still be busy. Nor do I think it would be a good idea to vote by roll-call because the Prime Minister would have to answer something. He won't give it to me. I disagree. I agree with Mr Wilders, but this is not a point of order. So please let us continue with the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u320	I am looking at Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u321	Mr. Chairman. We have had the situation earlier that there was a discussion about whether or not the government is right to say that it is not going to go into anything at the time. It is then good practice here to table a motion and then to vote on that motion. Then you know exactly what you say yes or no to and you can also weigh that up. That would be my suggestion to Mr Wilders: can it not be included in a motion in the second term, on which we can then vote in accordance with normal procedures, and jointly and severally if necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u322	Yes. Then I'd like to suspend briefly and we'll discuss what's best for you to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u323	I give the floor to Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u324	Mr. Chairman. After some discussion with colleagues, I will indeed use my second term right to put what I just asked the Prime Minister in a motion instead of that roll-call vote, on the condition that they will not stop it and that is confirmed by the coalition. If the answer is unsatisfactory for me and I would therefore like to express my confidence in the Prime Minister, I shall be given a third time limit with votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u325	I see no one has any objection to that. Then that's a deal. Then we'll continue the debate. I think it was Mrs Marijnissen's turn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u326	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a question about the previous point. I set it in my first term, but the Prime Minister did not answer that. It's about the Wilders case. My question is at what point exactly the Prime Minister himself was informed in any way of the apparent substantive interference from the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u327	A conclusion has been reached in that question. That question is at least part of the matter, because it is a conclusion. There's a conclusion in that question. To begin with, I have no interference whatsoever in individual criminal matters. The letter from Grapperhaus states that the question was asked to Opstelten or when and when Rutte should be informed about the decision to prosecute. That makes sense to me. But I have no involvement in ongoing criminal proceedings, in any way. The question that is being asked also implies that there would be substantive interference. Then I come to the whole point that I have just refused, namely to comment on this complex of facts, because it is now being discussed at the court.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u328	I think I'm asking a very factual question. I am happy to say that the Prime Minister cannot hide behind the argument that it is under the courts, because we are not asking for a ruling on the case or the substance of the case. In a debate, we are asking the Prime Minister for a political statement on what he thinks of the interference that has now been demonstrated from the Ministry. My question is therefore very simple and factual. A number of documents have now come up. When did he become aware of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u329	I will answer all these questions in detail when we have the debate after the case. I never interfere with the substance of criminal matters at all. The letter from Grapperhaus, the first letter from early September, mentions a number of things that happened after the decision was taken, including the question to Opstelden or and when you should inform Rutte about the decision to prosecute. I think that is a logical request to him: think about it. But that's after the decision has been made. Other than that, I have no involvement in business, in any way. Mrs Marijnissen's question contains a number of conclusions. It says literally: interference from or through the Ministry of Justice. Then we are in the middle of the matter now before the court, and that is exactly what Mr Wilders is asking me to comment on. I'm not gonna do that, because that's a case that's under the judge now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u330	I'm afraid I'm not going to get an answer from the Prime Minister today. Once again, I find that he cannot hide behind it. We're not asking for a ruling on the case. We are not asking for a substantive ruling. It's about a politician who appeals to you about the role his ministry has in this process. Things have come out of that, thanks to RTL News, who has brought that to light. I would ask his reaction to this and also a very factual answer to the question when he was informed. He says, "I don't mind the substance of the matter." That's not the question either. When did the documents that came to him? When did he become aware of this? That was the question, but I'm afraid I'm not going to get an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u331	Let's all do that in the debate. I should look into that, too. I don't know by heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u332	I asked you yesterday, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u333	I did not want to answer him because in the question the substantive interference is decided from or by the Ministry of Justice. That's how she puts it. That is a matter of substance. That puts us in the middle of that criminal case. That's exactly what Geert Wilders is asking me. I do not think I should dwell on that, because that aspect was brought before the court by Geert Wilders in the case and is now part of that criminal case. That is exactly why, in the end, I say 'let's not talk about it here' and the majority of the House will follow it. I agree. I realize you can think of something else, too, but here's what I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u334	Can I make one more attempt in one sentence by rewording it? Then let's not call it substantive interference, but just put it neutrally as "the documents we have all been able to see through RTL News". Then we can argue whether that is substantive interference, yes or no. When did they come to you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u335	I'm gonna see if I can answer that question in second term, but first I want to make sure that I don't get involved in that case. Let me take a look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u336	Good. Mrs Marijnissen, another point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u337	The social attorney's office. I asked a question about this yesterday, and I conclude that there was no answer to that question. I specifically asked the Prime Minister what he was going to do to deal with the major problems in social law. His answer is a bit like: we're going to try to redesign it and we're going to fix it all budget neutral, so without the money going to cost. There's a lot of trouble. 70% of social attorneys are actually trying to do something else right now. So there's going to be a huge drain. So my question to the Prime Minister was what he's going to do now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u338	That's what I just outlined. The Minister for Legal Protection has outlined the whole outline of that system. The implementation is in full swing: the information on-line and the speaking hours in the neighbourhoods. Furthermore, we are going to do more to prevent legal proceedings. We're going to reduce cases from the government, with the aim of reducing court cases, so that lawyers' fees can be raised. That whole action programme is a cabinet programme. I don't have my own program on top of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u339	So this is exactly the problem. Everything is being devised by the cabinet, but the people who do the work, the social lawyers, indicate that the problem is now and that it is acute. I don't see any urgency at all. They now indicate that the rates are too low and that they cannot do their job in this way. And I told you, 70% of social attorneys are considering doing something else. Then maybe a layer deeper. We have already said a lot of things here this morning and yesterday about trust in the rule of law, how important we think that is and how important our role as a political one is. Then it is very cruel that the people who are in a financially unenviable position and who are faced with setbacks in their lives, a conflict at work or about the rent, and you name it, cannot achieve their right? Isn't that contrary to everything we discussed this morning and what we discussed yesterday? That access to justice must remain for everyone, mustn't it? At the moment when the people who work with it every day, the social attorneys, say that that's totally the case now, shouldn't all the alarm bells go off?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u340	I have the greatest respect for people who work in social law, but let us also weigh up the signals we get and see how they relate to the actions that are being taken to solve problems. The Netherlands is at the top of the countries in terms of the money per capita spent on this important issue. We are now seeing a decline in demand for funded legal aid. The budget remains at the existing level. This means that next year there will be 10 million available for a provision for legal aid providers who are taking the initiative to further shape the renewal. That is a first step and we will continue to work to keep the pace of improvement high. But if we make a complaint every time we come from a particular sector and we are told that we need more money to channel it directly here to the House of Representatives, that is also crazy. I don't think that's a good way to do it either. We put a lot of money into it. We have a whole program to reduce the number of cases. There will be 10 million in the near future, because we are not cutting back on the business. That just remains available for a provision. In addition, we will continue to work on accelerating the improvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u341	Finally, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u342	I seem to remember something from when the multinationals had an idea. You're saying that you don't want something like a group that can just pass one-on-one here into the House of Representatives. I remember another subject where that was no problem at all. It wasn't in any election program, nobody had the idea, but the Prime Minister was defending it from the depths of his fibers. Now it's about something essential, being able to get your rights. If you can't make it to justice, there will be injustice. The target group, 70% of social attorneys, indicates that something is needed now. And what do they get? Nothing at all. Do you know, Prime Minister, what the Dutch Order of Lawyers said today? It was said that we have so little faith in the cabinet, in the minister, that we are no longer able to talk to each other at all. Isn't that serious? Today, we are talking about reducing trust in the rule of law and we are saying that we need to invest in it and that is important. Is it not serious that we hear today that even those people, the lawyers, say: we no longer have confidence in it and we no longer need to talk to the cabinet, because there will be no solutions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u343	We are, of course, trying to reduce, reduce, reduce that volume of things. We do this by taking all kinds of measures. We also see that this can be done in itself and that the demand for this funded legal aid is decreasing. As a result, money will also be made available for modernisation. And if there are fewer cases, then eventually the fee for lawyers can also be increased. As a result, social lawyers can earn a better living for the work they continue to do. That is, of course, the purpose of this whole reform. We want to shape this modernisation within the budgetary framework of some 400 million.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u344	I'm gonna go on at this point anyway. We have heard fine words in the King's Throne speech, and also earlier today in the Prime Minister's reply, about problems in implementing organisations and about better public service. There is no question of a customer relationship in the government, but of a point of contact where people can go if they have a request for help. As far as I am concerned, the social lawyer also fits in with this debate on the question: is the government there for people who are vulnerable and who need help? The social lawyer is concerned with people with often complex problems. They will not be granted access to justice if they are not assisted by a social lawyer. And of course, this system review is very important, including mediation in the neighbourhood and other solutions that can help people faster. But if 70% of social attorneys are about to quit now, you can have a wonderful system in a few years' time, but if there are no lawyers to man the system, you will not help the vulnerable Dutch people who will not find access to justice without them. What's the Cabinet going to do to prevent all the social lawyers from throwing down the hatchet during the renovation of that house?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u345	We believe that we have a plan in place to prevent unnecessary court cases, and also to prevent all kinds of court cases from being brought by the government itself, so that ultimately the total volume can be reduced. We therefore believe that we can do this within the budgetary framework. And you can also see that this is starting to work to some extent, because that demand for funded legal aid is beginning to decrease. As a result, EUR 10 million is also available in structural terms for this provision for legal aid providers, as I have already outlined. That money is also being used to further shape this innovation. That's how we want to do it. And we will, of course, monitor that very carefully, as well as its effects. That's how the coalition's doing it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u346	The Prime Minister is talking about windfalls that are now occurring because the initial effects of the system review are already visible. To what extent does the government use these windfalls directly to support the social lawyers, who now have the water on their hands, in order to prevent them from stopping their important work?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u347	EUR 10 million will be available in the coming years. That amount just stays all the way in the system and isn't being skimmed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u348	Combating trafficking in human beings and forced prostitution is one of the priorities, especially when it comes to the rule of law and freedom. First of all, thank you for the kindness with which the Prime Minister has responded to a proposal from Mr Asscher and me to allocate an additional 10 million for the fight against trafficking in human beings and forced prostitution. This could further enable the police to step up that fight. This is important because it concerns vulnerable people. At the same time, we need more legislation. This week, someone got a PhD who says that you can't do it with just the police and the justice system, but you also really need legislation. To my question when the Law on Prostitution will come, the Prime Minister will come up with a proper answer which I could have satisfied, namely: within a few weeks the law will be in consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u349	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u350	I can imagine that the Prime Minister is not ready for all the facts on this right now, but I will let the chronology work on me for a moment. In dealing with the budget of Justice two years ago, the Secretary of State at the time said: within a few weeks, the bill will be subject to consultation. By the way, the bill was already prepared ten years ago. Police and justice say, please, give us that law. That is what was said during the 1917 budget debate. Sorry, budget handling 2017. In 1917 there was the pacification. This was about freedom of education and then liberals and Christians did good business.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u351	Yes, and the right to vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u352	In 2017, therefore, a commitment was made: within a few weeks. Then it took a little longer and it all turned out to be a little more complicated. In May 2018, the then Secretary of State wrote: before the summer, the bill goes into consultation. Now I'm told: within a few weeks. In Trouw was even "spring 2020," while I was told much earlier that it is only the Dutch Data Protection Authority. That is the only bump, because it still has to look at the privacy aspects. Let me make it quite clear: for the Christian Union, the fight against trafficking in human beings, forced prostitution, was one of the reasons for participating in this cabinet. If this legislation lasts so long, if victims have to wait so long for good legislation, it does not reassure me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u353	And the question is? That you're disappointed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u354	Is there gonna be any more of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u355	I have to tell you, I haven't fully prepared for the exact history. I assume that Mr Segers is right about that right away. Fact is, we're dealing with a bill on regulation sex work, and yes, it's taken more time. That had to do with privacy aspects. That bill, as has been reported to me, will be in consultation within a few weeks. The pimp ban has become part of it. Because of its coherence, it is best to do so together, including at the level of the provisions between these two aspects. The ban on pimping has thus become part of that bill and will therefore also be consulted within a few weeks. If Mr Segers wanted that sooner or was disappointed in it, I will look into it, because I do not want that. So I haven't been ready for a moment to discuss exactly what the recent history of that bill is, but I have been informed that it will be in consultation within a few weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u356	It's been two years since we wrote down that we wanted this and that we would intensify the fight. That's important. That's the motivation when you're standing here. We have said: let the police also be able to do more, because it is about vulnerable people. And if you don't go looking for victims and if you don't go after perps, you won't find them, and then it won't. We can better control if we have a proper licensing system and we can go off all those institutions and see if human rights are being violated or freedom is being taken away. So we need that legislation. I have no choice but to call out impeccably: please hurry. But given the history between two years ago and now, I must say that it is taking a very long time. Again, some dissatisfaction about that whole process has been a part of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u357	I understand, and I don't want to. I believe that we should also be predictable in such a coalition. So I'm sorry about that, but I can't exactly see what that's been about right now. Oh, I hear it was the GDPR problem. We'll dive into it for a while, but at least the bill will be in consultation within two weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u358	On the same point, because I have already mentioned this in the debate on the declaration of government: it has always taken so long in the past. Is it going faster now, please? But we're still seeing the same pattern. I would like to support Mr Segers very warmly in this. In the Justice budget, I noticed that next year, in 2020, there will be a bill. But it would help to ensure that the bill is actually submitted to the Chamber in the first quarter of 2020. Could the Prime Minister agree to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u359	Submit first quarter 2020? That's probably feasible if the consultation starts now. That is what we are going to try; we are going to make an extreme effort to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u360	Maybe in the microphone?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u361	We are going to make every effort to submit the legislative proposal in the first quarter of 2020 after the consultation. Yeah, it's annoying. I see two angry faces now. I can't do anything with that right now, but I'm sorry that it seems to have turned out that way. However, I cannot solve that now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u362	The point Mrs Marijnissen made did not make for the first time. She has been warning of this for some time now, with a number of other parties, including the Labour Party and D66. I think it is very hard that, while we are having this debate in the shadow of an attack on the rule of law, we see and have to recognise that this pillar of the rule of law is really under pressure, people are leaving the profession; they are no longer doing it; we are trying to get rid of the reasoning: it has to be within the budget. My request to the Prime Minister would also be to take a look at this in person and come back to it in the second term. It would be so appropriate to say in this debate: of course we are going to look into this. The social lawyer, like the other lawyer, the incumbent magistrate, is essential to the quality of the rule of law. If we appreciate that, you should also appreciate Mrs Marijnissen's request.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u363	But it is not surprising that if we are among the countries that spend the most on it per capita, that's fine, that's part of a civilized country; we always want to be in the top and here too we can be in the top. Or, for example, by looking at what is possible with speaking hours in the neighborhood where legal questions can be asked. Or by giving better information. We all do. Eventually there will be room within the budget to increase the remuneration and the social lawyers can do the business that does take place at a better rate. That's not crazy, is it? It is not true that as a country we suddenly have to add a lot of extra money while, again, we are already relatively high. It makes sense, I think, that as a cabinet we are trying to find out if it can be more efficient. Is it possible to avoid certain things, via mediation or what I just outlined; all those things we're doing with online information? To be honest, it seems so logical to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u364	Sometimes something makes sense to you, but it doesn't. That's right here. I have a feeling that over the last few years, we have cut off the social attorneys way too much. There is, of course, talk about improvements in access to justice and, in particular, an improvement in the way in which the government behaves. But here we talk about tariffs that you can live on. There's an image of lawyers as big-time earners. There are, but this really is the other side. These are idealists who do this because they know that every human being has the right to legal aid if necessary. So no, it's not illogical to want to look at the amount of stuff. It is illogical to hold on to this now, while the rule of law is under pressure. I understand that it is not possible at this time, but come back to it in the second term. That's my request. Here it really pays to look at it a little more openly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u365	If I say yes to this now, I give the impression that we are going to do something and that space is really not there at the moment. We monitor its implementation. We do not want to harm the rule of law. If things are crazy, we, as a cabinet, will naturally have to look at how we can solve them. But I don't want to say now "we're thinking about it" to give the impression that we suddenly have a different story tonight. I don't see that happening, with all due respect. I have to be honest with you about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u366	A new question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u367	Here too. In this whole debate, the public sector plays an important role: education, care, the police. Everywhere we have found that, also by government intervention earlier, it has become a mess because of cuts that have taken place there and that we have put pressure on the place. Now the same thing is threatening to happen, or we are already on that path, with the social lawyer. If the Prime Minister continues to do so, I am afraid that we will have a debate here in two years' time on the question "what have we done, what beautiful thing have we thrown away?" That is why I ask the Prime Minister to come back to this again in the second term or in the Justice budget. You really need to see this wider, in the whole debate we're having about the public sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u368	Yeah, although I don't want to support the sweeping statement that it's a mess. Because that means we're making huge statements. The crisis has made it necessary to look everywhere at how we could reduce costs. That's what happened. At the moment, there is room to invest heavily in the public sector again, and that is what we are doing. We've found accents with each other today where we do extra things. I also think this is logical, as we emerge from the crisis, including the reduction of burdens and the orderlying of pensions and the climate, that is to say the long term for the Netherlands. I'm just gonna distance myself from what was said, that it's been such a mess. Specifically on this point, we are going to monitor this very carefully. But by taking up the suggestion to rethink it towards second term...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u369	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u370	...I don't want to give the impression that there's going to be another story right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u371	I take such a big word in my mouth on purpose. If there are 60 children in the classroom, we've made a mess of it like politics. If lawyers, people with law school, have a salary that they can't get through at some point and they have to do a lot of business to raise a salary, then we've made a mess of it. I really hope that the Prime Minister sees that cry here and also in a broader perspective. Because if we don't, we're gonna be incredibly sorry about this in two years' time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u372	I understand that challenge: look at this and prevent you from doing things that destroy something. That's why we're going to monitor it carefully. I get it, I get it. Mr. Chairman. Only two questions have been asked at international level. It may be that we have a debate which, on average, goes a little slower, but that does not benefit the eyes of the outside world. May I share that reflection with you? Both questions have been asked by the party I have always accused in the past, namely the Socialist Party, to draw so little attention to them. So compliments. The two foreign questions come from that corner. The first question is about Iran. Can I say here that we are very concerned about the rising tensions in the Gulf? Wherever possible, we will endeavour to reduce these tensions. The recent attacks on oil installations are a dangerous escalation. We've condemned the attacks. It is now important to establish who is responsible for these attacks. Of course, we are also concerned about internal developments in Iran. This is particularly true of the human rights situation. It is now apparent that the Iranian people are suffering from these developments. We are very aware of that. We will do everything we can to help reduce tensions. Mrs Marijnissen's second question on foreign affairs was about the issue which, of course, affects her party personally, namely the issue surrounding the Eindhoven council member of her party Murat, who played this year. The cabinet is aware of the human rights situation and the rule of law in Turkey. It is also engaged in the dialogue on this issue at the moment. We also express our concerns wherever possible. We also stress the need for fair and rapid justice, in line with all the international commitments made by Turkey, including as a member of the Council of Europe. In line with Mrs Karabulut's motion, the Netherlands continues to engage consularly in consular cases in Turkey, including persons who have been banned from travelling pending a trial. We are calling for attention to be paid to this at all levels, with silent diplomacy remaining the full commitment of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u373	Did you answer all the questions with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u374	Yes, in foreign territory.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u375	A brief question, Mrs Marijnissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u376	I will return to the political prisoners in Turkey. The word 'legal state' has fallen quite often here today and yesterday. In Turkey, it is very far-fetched. We have indeed been able to experience this ourselves recently, but there are more examples of this. I understand very well that the cabinet says that it is committed to silent diplomacy, but I would also like to raise the following question here. We can see that it is at a rapid pace backburning in Turkey. Let me just put it this way. For example, I have also spoken to lawyers who are in prison because they are defending someone who is suspected of something. Speaking of the rule of law. That's how fast it's going there. Shouldn't there also be a tooth from the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u377	I think we are calling for attention to be paid to this at all levels. If I am in contact with the leadership in Turkey again, I will do the same. It's always on the agenda, in all our conversations with the Turks. In consular matters, of course, this is often through silent diplomacy, in order to maximise effectiveness. But I fully share Mrs Marijnissen's concerns on this point. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a few topics. First of all, can I congratulate GroenLinks, the SP and the Labour Party for drawing up a counter-budget? I myself experienced in opposition times how much work that is. It seems quite complicated to me if you have to agree with two parties fishing in the same electoral pond, but that has succeeded. That's good. It presents alternative plans. They were also calculated by the Central Planning Bureau. I could still do it alone as a VVD back then, but you also had to agree with the three of us. That's what worked. That is also politically a fact. But also just to content and precision...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u378	Can you do it nicer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u379	That's exactly what I'm doing. I'm just saying I like the job. Sorry, I'm doing it again: in short, good work. And they also manage not to make the balance deteriorate compared to the Millions note. Also before: chapeau bass. It is true that the parties opt for a larger collective sector. That is, of course, a political choice. They opt for lower VAT and higher charges in order to allow an additional reduction in the burden for lower incomes. Those are a number of political choices. This will increase the overall burden by about 6 billion. This is particularly striking in the case of business. A lot of people are going to pay more taxes on their income. In business, the reduction in the low Vpb rate is not going to happen. Of course, this has a significant impact on small entrepreneurs. Anyway, that's a choice. In addition, there is, of course, the increase in the high Vpb rate to 30%. This in turn has employment effects. However, that is also part of the political balance. We are making different choices here, but I would like to say thank you. I know how much work it is. It's tough that it's just been completely calculated again by the Central Planning Bureau. Then there are a few things that our... Would you like to hear more, Mr. Clover?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u380	Do I get a sticker or something?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u381	Yeah, guys, I do that every year. I give an appreciation of the counter-budget. I can go through it all the way if you want. I think it's nice. I didn't mean ugly!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u382	I thought your reaction to our counter-budget was really cool.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u383	Sorry, I'll be more excited next time. Mr. Chairman. Then there's a few things left. Firstly, there is the sensitive issue of the Rembrandt. Further research has taught me that there are still a few historical observations to be made in the consideration of Mr Van der Staaij. The painting in the Hermitage did not buy the Russian envoy in the Republic, but in Paris, from a French marquis who in turn had bought it from a German archbishop. This means that there are no more traces of Russian art purchases in the Republic. For some years the wreck has been located in the Finnish territorial waters of the ship Woman Maria, which, as we know, went there in 1771. That ship was on its way from Amsterdam to Sint-Petersburg with on board 30 paintings by famous Dutch masters, who had been purchased for tsarina Catharina II at an auction in Amsterdam. It seems to me, although I am a historian and have no knowledge of water, that there is little left of these works. But the wreck with its cargo is still a tangible proof of the type of transactions Mr Van der Staaij referred to. Mr. Chairman. Then the request of the parties CDA and VVD about the exhibition of the Union of Utrecht, the Acte van Verlatinghe and the Apology of Willem van Oranje. First of all, we must realise that it cannot be ruled out that this can lead us to diplomatic and political problems with Belgium. We'll have to take that for granted. Why is that? Because the Union of Utrecht is involved several cities in the south, in Flanders, namely Ghent, Bruges and Antwerpen. Overijssel was not one of them, which seems particularly sensitive to the CDA, given the size of the CDA there. I did not want to notice, but indeed: it is almost a personal attack on Arie Slob. At the Plate of Verlatinghe that is even more painful, because that was signed on July 26, 1581 by "yes," logical Dutch, Zeeland, Utrecht, Friesland, Gelre and Zutphen. But pay attention, it was also signed by Brabant.That was then including what is now Flemish-Brabant.Flanders and Mechelen. But it wasn't signed by Overijssel, nor by Groningen, or Ommelanden. We need to realize that. I do not think that this is a reason to put the request aside, but it is a sidelight that we have to bear in mind. However, I would like to say that we are going to explore how the so-called birth papers, and in particular the Vertaat van Vertaathe, can get a nice public place. The National Archives have all these documents in their possession. They're digitally accessible. At the moment, the Plaktkaat van Verlatinghe can be seen in the exhibition of the National Archive "Toppieces in perspective "From Plaktkaat van Verlatinghe to Abdicatie." The reason for this exhibition is the election of the Plaktkaat van Verlatinghe to the showpiece of the Netherlands. There you can visit for free six days a week in the exhibition room. The Minister of Education, together with the National Archives, will examine how the documents can be permanently exhibited. In the coming years, the National Archive's collaboration with ProDemos is expected to offer 90,000 students the opportunity to visit the National Archive. The plaque will be able to occupy an important place. I see Mr Heerma thinking: do I have a commitment or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u384	On this point, are there any other questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u385	Yes. I come to Mr Krol's "Made in The Netherlands" day. I would like to say that it is good to be proud of the beautiful things that we can do in the Netherlands. I do so personally, in visits, but also in contacts with sportsmen, for example, when they become world champions or win an Olympic medal. One of the nicest aspects of my job is to be able to call them and congratulate them on behalf of the whole of the Netherlands. I also do it at the reception of foreign guests. Our companies want our support in achieving new markets and that is why we organise many trade missions abroad. We have moments in Holland, of course, when we consider the beautiful things of our country. We do that here, but of course also through our posts abroad. I am thinking, for example, of the national traditions of Prince's Day, King's Day and Liberation Day. Special sports performances are also celebrated, think of the honouring of the Orange Lionesses. Members of the cabinet and myself therefore regularly try to highlight Dutch initiatives. I think a specific Made in the Netherlands Day doesn't add enough to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u386	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u387	Finally, I would like to say something about the comments made by Van der Staaij, a number of coalition groups and Klaver on the political debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u388	That's the last piece?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u389	That would be the last of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u390	Okay. Then I'll go to Mr. Heerma first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u391	The Prime Minister already indicated that he had the idea that I was doubting whether it was a commitment or not, but perhaps he said that because he also doubted whether it was a commitment or not. Maybe the Prime Minister can try again. Let's start with maybe a little more enthusiasm. I understand all references to Flanders and Overijssel, but does the Prime Minister see any added value of this? Can he explain this and explain a little more clearly that the cabinet is actually going to ensure that this is done and that this is also going to be a place in the full sunlight, to quote Mr Dijkhoff again? I am not convinced by the Prime Minister's reply for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u392	They can't leave the National Archives. That's not possible. In Washington they are also in the National Archives, in public. I understand that we can say with certainty that they are permanently, publicly displayed, so that is clear. I will also put more enthusiasm into it. I'm a historian and there's no doubt about it; these are our birth papers. I like teaching a few hours a week, as you know, at a havo class. I was stunned because I studied history and did gymnasium, but I never knew which parts of the Seven United Netherlands, the southern and northern, were involved in all these political moments. You see how good education is and how much better it was when we were in high school. Those kids need to know all that now. I just had to pull up a leg when they said Flanders had drawn the Plate of Abandonment. I thought it would be nice to report this here, also as proof of the fact that we teach very well in the Netherlands. Yeah, this is valuable, and yeah, we're gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u393	Good, this sounds better. Can the Prime Minister also comment on the way in which Mr Dijkhoff and I have both said that it can make a contribution to connection in the Netherlands and to healthy patriotism, in my words? Can he indicate at what time we will be informed about how this is going to happen, so that we, as Chamber, as CDA and VVD, can assess whether it has come sufficiently into the sunlight of Mr Dijkhoff?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u394	We try to have that around for Christmas and then inform you about the way in which. Then quite specifically about patriotism. The Netherlands is a country that always experiences patriotism somewhat subdued. That's what I like about the Netherlands. We have a beautiful flag and beautiful traditions, but we also have a lot of self-confidence about our country, about our nationalism. This translates itself in a rather chic way; that we have less intense national symbols such as the flag and the national anthem permanently, grasping or singing every day, but that experience much more intrinsically with each other. There is also great self-confidence. That also shows that we are, in my view, a country which is my personal view, which has been linked for hundreds of years by the struggle against the elements and opposition and which, at the same time, is pilgrimage to the world seas in order to make a lot of money in other areas. This makes the Netherlands a rather unique fact. I must honestly say that my thinking has shifted in that, because I have always thought that making this type of national symbols very visible does not relate very well to that subdued, very self-evident experience of our national consciousness. But there too you can see the advantage of working together in a coalition and of the talks with Mr Heerma's predecessor. When he drew attention to these aspects in the formation, he again encouraged me to think, also in the light of the arrival of groups with a different cultural background in the Netherlands, that there is certainly great added value in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u395	I would like to see Mr Dijkhoff interrupting on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u396	Of course at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u397	Oh, I thought so. Mr Dijkhoff.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u398	On behalf of people who are not mentioned in the Chamber, but I will do it anyway: Kees Berghuis........................................................................................................................................................................ It saves some UV factors. I am someone who celebrates his cultural identity quite exuberantly.I know that not all of the Netherlands participates in it, but that is called carnival. I get it: it's the National Archive, it's hard, people are meeting, it's ours and it shouldn't be there. But the thought that it lies somewhere and is therefore public and that everyone can go there: that is a pity to me. I'd think more: take it to a place where people are already, where people are already coming. I also had tweets that said: get off at Central Station, depending on where you are turn right or turn left, five minutes walk and you can see it. Yeah, but sometimes I think that's too much to ask. I wish we were more proud of it. You don't have to march the streets wrong as a nationalist, but I'd like us to share that identity more and talk about it. Fine if someone else says you can't say "Golden Age" anymore. Well, I'll keep saying it, but at the very least, there'll be discussion. For it may be a misunderstanding to think that we all share and see our values very modestly and of course, because some do so understated, while others simply have no sense of it, do not see the history and cherishing what has been acquired, built up and fought is not self-evidently experienced. Then I'd choose the emphasis. That can still be chic, that can still be subdued. We'll go crazy in the south. But I think we can do better than we've done so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u399	Yes, although a small profit warning. They're very fragile documents. I have been informed that a permanent exhibition of the original pieces outside the National Archives is probably not possible due to material management. There are replicas that are hardly distinguishable from the original. For example, there is a replica of the Pasta of Abandonment here in the House of Representatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u400	Yes!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u401	The National Archive preserves the handwritten originals, including the fragile handwritten originals of the three documents, which are also printed in their own time. So those are printed versions from that time itself. They are present in plural, also in the Royal Library. Maybe we should look at Christmas as the originals are at the National Archives how we can exhibit some of the replicas from that time ourselves. So these aren't copies from today, which come from a copier, but real original copies from that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u402	It doesn't have to be a parade for me either, but there are a lot of people who can do it in a very beautiful and creative way, with respect for the pieces and with replicas. I am concerned that we share the meaning of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u403	Yeah, and put the context into it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u404	Of course. There may also be a sign that not everything was cookie and egg at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u405	That's what I meant.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u406	But let's celebrate what we grew up to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u407	I don't think we need to start with what wasn't right at the Lack of Abandonment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u408	The "made in the Netherlands" day. That's a nasty reaction. I came up with that proposal. A day before, there was one rule about it in De Telegraaf. You cannot believe, Madam President, how insanely many positive responses were received, not only from colleagues here, but above all from people in the country. They said: how nice, now we can finally put the Netherlands in a decent way, then we can invite foreign investors and show that we are proud of the Dutch products. I hear the Prime Minister say, "I'll do a little bit of this and I'll do a little bit of that." Don't be a jerk! Now investigate this and go see if we can develop that into something really beautiful Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u409	I am not immediately convinced of the added value, but perhaps Mr Krol could ask the Chamber for a ruling. Then the government can discuss it a little longer. I'm not exactly excited.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u410	I already had the motion in...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u411	I'm just curious what the motion he's probably going to file will eventually do here. And then we can take another look at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u412	The Prime Minister knows exactly what's in my pocket. I'll file her later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u413	I had such a hunch you would. Finally, Mr President, it is important. Some of you from the CDA and the VVD, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Klaver spoke about trust, about the way in which they work. The word "scoreboard policy" has been mentioned. Perhaps a response to Mr Van der Staaij. He says, "You wanted to restore confidence; you are now halfway through the journey; how are you?" To begin with, we are indeed, as in the Throne State, a country with a broad middle. By that, I mean a country where you are basically trying to compromise. I am not going to say at all which parties do or do not do so and where trust in the government is actually very high on average. And yes, and that was also very strong in the formation, there are also people in the country with low confidence, for example because they do not benefit from economic growth. That was discussed today. That is one of the reasons why we are trying to get that growth tangible, however difficult it turns out to be. We free up extra money to reduce the burden, for affordable homes, for youth care, etc. The pension agreement, the longer term climate agreement, is working on the implementation organisation: all these aspects, I mean. In the end, of course, there is a thought underneath which was and is for this coalition: confidence in the future. I saw an interview with Segers on Monday or Tuesday around Prinsjesdag in which he said something that I have said myself. He said that this was perhaps one of the last opportunities of the broad political centre to show that we are able to help this country, from that tradition of compromise, of agreeing, of a country with little hierarchy, where we always had to negotiate, because we had to build those dykes and not have the luxury to say you're the boss. No, we have to keep the feet dry together. That The Hague is a long way from rowing and if they occasionally come to collect a few tax dollars, then they have to get out of here quickly. With that, there is no automatic respect for power. On the street, I'm Mark, not the Prime Minister. We have a completely different system from that in France, which, of course, has been a centralised unitary state since Louis XIV, until the Fifth Republic of Charles de Gaulle, which starts and ends with an almost stratospheric President moving. This comes entirely from the tradition of Louis XIV. That's a completely different system. I will never forget my conversation with Macron in which he asked me about the difference between the yellow hoes in the Netherlands and in France. I said that this movement in the Netherlands is taken very seriously and is treated with respect, but that it is different, because in the end nobody really has the central power here and we always have to try to get out of it, from consultation and with respect for each other and each other's views. That's what this cabinet is trying to do... with falling and getting up. You saw that with the Climate Agreement. That was, of course, all terrible, how that initially went, up to Christmas and actually up to the state elections. That didn't go well. We've communicated a lot of uncertainty. It wasn't until May, June that we were able to get it sharp. It was an incredibly complex problem. I wouldn't know how else to do it; afterward, of course, you can learn from your mistakes. But you can see how difficult it is to get out across a broad political front, with many civil society organisations, and not make people feel like they have to leave their homes tomorrow, sell their cars and stop flying. At the same time, however, you must achieve those objectives, with broad political support. It'll take time. That is difficult, but it also suits the Netherlands to do so. I have actually understood Klaver in this way. I give my interpretation to his words, that he says: you should talk more often about this with each other, and at all in politics, more broadly. Of course, there is sometimes a need for ordinary legislation. Then you have 61 amendments and then you have to be correct in the detail. You should, but not alone. There are also major issues that you might be able to discuss in advance. Issues we had to cut today about, for example, the vacancies in health care, education and other sectors. I would like to mention the issues surrounding the bottom of the labour market and the Borstlap Committee. I mention balance issues in our tax system. All that kind of stuff could be reason to think about things. I thought it was very special what Clover was doing here yesterday. I can only speak for myself; I did not discuss that with the cabinet. What he said about that yesterday, I took it. I think it deserves support, but at the same time it fits very well. It's new, and it's not new. It is also very Netherlands. But it's new again to bring it this way, to talk about it with such conviction and to say: is it perhaps not better to take a look at the long term and not be busy all the time with "do I have in some kind of zero sum another a bit of damage causing me to shine more?" And that also suits the Netherlands. We are a system with two chambers, with proportional representation, with many political parties. I often get that question. You have a fragmented political landscape; what a disaster; you have to introduce a electoral threshold. I believe my party is even in favour of it. Well, I'm not. I don't like it at all. I think it's beautiful. The pinnacle of democracy would be that there are 150 parties here. And it's just fine if there's less. That makes it easier, because if there were 150, those general considerations would take a long time. But in the end, the question isn't whether it's easy. In the end, the question is: what is the spirit, what is the intention with which you try to get together? What is the balance between profiling and realization? 'Cause that's what you're talking about. What is the balance between political principles and administrative effectiveness? And that's very fluid. That's very dynamic. You can also see it in the debate we are having here today. Mr President, I will not go on for too long. Mr Klaver asked me to reflect on that. I'm trying to do that from the heart.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u414	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u415	His words spoke to me. And I actually hear that back. In the overall atmosphere of yesterday, that was already palpable. I realize: we will continue to fight from different human images, worldviews, political views. Please, it shouldn't be like... what was that called, the Kumbawa? What were we gonna sing with that guitar? Oh, I hear it's the Kumbaya. So we're not gonna do that. That's not the point at all. We still disagree. But let's try to get together on the main lines, and from that idea struggle we try to make this country better. That suits the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u416	Thank you. It seems as if the debate is ready, but that is not the case. It was the first term of office. After the suspension we go to the second term of the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u417	The next item is the second term of office. We will continue with the General Political Reviews. I give the floor to Mr Wilders, who speaks on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u418	Thank you, Madam President. This cabinet lives in its own reality. They live in their own world and have surrounded themselves in the Lower House with a platoon of jaknogs of coalition and opposition. They all want, as it turned out for the past two days, very much in the PM's lap. For this, one does public self-reflection and the other gives broad laughing compliments especially to himself, but also to the Prime Minister. Another says that he sees much in his input and in the policy of the coalition. Mr. Chairman. But in the real world, outside this Chamber, our rule of law is now on the drip, on the ventilator, after receiving sledgehammers. Because the government, and that's today's conclusion, isn't in charge everywhere in our country anymore. She's not the authority anymore. Disorder, violence and terror is what beats Amsterdam and a number of other places in our country: a lawyer brutally shot, a brother of the star witness murdered, a rocket attack, an attack on media, grenades on the street and severed heads for coffee shops. The Moroccan mob is the boss. And they get stronger every day and more violent every day. And this cabinet, and Minister Grapperhaus first, is babbling about new boundaries that have been crossed, but has zero grip on it, zero grip. Beggings the police did earlier, last year, to get thousands of extra detectives, Grapperhaus kicked in the wind. The security of the family of starwitnesses and others was a big hole cheese. As so often in the Netherlands, something happens only when it is actually too late and when innocent victims have fallen. Mr. Chairman. Besides that drug terror, there's a lot of other crime. Every day people are beaten up, murdered, robbed and raped in our country. Innocent people. Of course this also happens by Dutch criminals, but often the perpetrators are of non-Western origin. Moroccans are heavily overrepresented in crime. In 2014 we already knew that of the Moroccan boys born in 1984 61% of one or more crimes are suspected. 61% of Moroccan young people. 80% of Syrians were Moroccan. What do you mean, no Moroccan problem, Mr. Rutte? How dare you say it, no Moroccan problem in the Netherlands? There's a Moroccan poison flowing through the streets of the Netherlands. That was imported and cherished by all those who are crying crocodile tears today and yesterday. Shame on you. Also with regard to the wallet of those normal people at home, reality is quite different from that of this cabinet. Dozens of billions for a fund for sustainable investment, but the citizen who paid for the crisis and did not benefit from economic growth gets a crumb at best. The PVV says: first invest in people and then in things. People always go first in this country, at least that's how it's supposed to be. Prime Minister Rutte's promise that they will notice it heavily in their wallet must now be fulfilled. Therefore, the PVV Group proposes to reduce VAT on groceries, to reduce rents and to eliminate their own risk in healthcare. Hence my first motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the economy has grown by 10% in recent years and that citizens have not or hardly benefited from it;]] [[Considering that Prime Minister Rutte promised that everyone would make a great deal of progress in purchasing power;]] [[calls on the Government to reverse the increase in VAT on groceries, reduce rents and eliminate its own risk,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-7]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u419	I also made a proposal on ABN AMRO. The people at home, the taxpayers, saved that bank. Otherwise, that bank, a system bank, would have gone bankrupt. Of course, that could not happen, and that was not to happen. But half of that bank hasn't been sold yet. If we do, then the value of the present could be EUR 8 billion. You know: we have 8 million households in the Netherlands. 8 billion divided by 8 million is €1,000 per household. €1,000 once is a lot of money for a lot of ordinary Dutch people. Maybe not for the people here, but for the people at home, €1,000 is a lot of money. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that thanks to the taxpayer ABN AMRO has been nationalised and saved from bankruptcy;]] [[whereas almost half of ABN AMRO's shares have now been sold;]] [[whereas Mark Rutte has promised every working Dutchman €1,000;]] [[calls on the government to sell the remaining ABN AMRO shares and use the proceeds of EUR 8 billion to give each household €1,000 once as a thank you for saving this bank,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-8]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u420	I had hoped that Mr Jetten's name would be listed below, but unfortunately that did not happen. Mr. Chairman. Then our elders. It is a gross disgrace, I have no other words for how they are treated. How they've been screwed for years. It's unbelievable. The people who have raised and built our country, who have worked for years, are now screwed if they think they can enjoy a nice pension. They've lost over 6% in recent years. I already said it in my first term. Now the cabinet in the Million Note says they get one percent. We all know that I have interrupted colleagues that, if it were to happen right away, what it looks like is that pensions are being cut, people are not getting one percent better, but that they are getting much worse. That is cruel, and that is unfair, because the elderly can no longer improve their income by looking for a job and going to work. It must be a debt of honor here in this house that we're making our living for the elderly. I find it really inconceivable that the coalition should just drop the pensioners and let the cabinet get away with the motion that was tabled last week, which does not even have a result obligation and which just says: look at it. Rude! Mr. Chairman. No discounts. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[points out that, despite economic growth, pensioners have been lagging behind in purchasing power for years and that it is indecent to re-deprecate pensioners;]] [[calls on the Government to remove the threat of pension reductions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-9]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u421	Mr. Chairman. Finally, the process. I really do not think it is worth describing that the Prime Minister, in line with the coalition, responds to my request by saying: no, look at it Wilders; I am not going to comment on the facts. He said it a little more politely, but that's the bottom line. At this stage, I will never ask the Prime Minister to speculate. I can't understand that, but I'm asking him to speak out about the facts, and those facts are public. Once again, those facts were sent to the Chamber by Minister Grapperhaus. Those are the facts of the WOB procedure or the facts of which the Court has ordered disclosure. Mr. Chairman. These are facts that not only point to it, but also show very clearly that the officials of the Ministry of Justice have intervened in my trial under the ministerial responsibility of former Minister of State of State of the Interior. Those facts are proof of that. It's not an interpretation! Those officials threw the trias politician out the window. They have influenced the process, and that, of course, requires a ruling from the Prime Minister. What have these civil servants done? Let me say this briefly, also for the Chamber and for my motion which I am about to table. Those prosecutors helped the D.A. come up with and rebut the possible defense defense defense defense. And that involved concrete legal questions such as: can Wilders call for participation in the social debate? Has there been any mention of nationality? Shouldn't we bet on race anymore? Very specific legal questions have been passed on to the prosecution by the Ministers of Justice. They've also given legal ammunition to the D.A. to make a successful conviction of me. It's literally there to make it more likely. I am not talking about Russia or North Korea. For example, the final sentence of what I said then: then we will settle it. It has literally been said to the prosecution: tell them that that might be a very good angle to use in the prosecution of Wilders. And then one official e-mailed to another: okay, I'll pass it on to the state's attorney's office. Mr. Chairman. Those are facts. You can see that. It's on paper. It's not an opinion. It's nothing in my head. They're hard facts! The officials also wanted to read the petition from the Public Prosecutor's Office and make useful comments. Officials also rewritten the press release, which took out the names of colleagues Samsom and Spekman, former colleagues of the Labour Party. That wasn't a good time. Don't do that. The Minister approved that out. That's not a decision of the D.A.'s office, because that's what the D.A. did. Mr. Chairman. Again, it can't stand the light of day. If we did what the Prime Minister said, if we waited until after the trial and for the verdict and if we said, "Well, we don't harm the trias politician now," you'd put me to the wall with your back. Then you say: "It's okay if the trias politician gets trampled on in the beginning, but we're not gonna fix it. We're not even gonna talk about that. Go hang first and we'll see what happens." Mr President, that is false! That is falseness of the highest order and that is why I shall now table a motion. Because I can't accept that. I would like to say the following to my fellow Members. At the request of colleagues, I did not wish to interrupt the debate by making an order proposal and asking for a roll-call vote. So I'm doing that now with a motion. But I'll tell you this. Even if this motion is not adopted, with which the government may be entitled not to implement it under state law, because it has not been adopted, even if the government does not carry out that rejected motion, which is normal in this country, but I shall still ask the question of confidence. Anyway. If the motion is adopted and the Minister refuses to implement it, I will ask the question of confidence. But if the motion is not adopted and the Minister insists on not answering it, I will also ask the question of confidence. Hence the next motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u422	Let me ask you a question that's almost procedural. There was a suspension earlier to see exactly how we deal with this. He says: I would like to table a motion to see how that will be dealt with, and I would like to have the opportunity to then submit a motion of censure, that there should then be a third deadline. I said I support that. But if he says: there will be a motion of censure anyway, I do not know exactly what we need that third term for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u423	Not anyway, because the Minister always has the chance to say: I'm going to do it anyway. He will, of course, have to do so before the vote is taken. But even if the motion has not been adopted, it depends on whether the Minister says: I accept your request. That may not be necessary after the motion has been rejected, but for me I am telling you that honestly now, so that we will not have the discussion in the third term at the moment.... I have decided on your request for motions to prevent me from making an order proposal. If the Minister does not accept my request to answer that question, motion or not, then I will ask the question of confidence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u424	We know how this is gonna work out. The Prime Minister was absolutely clear on what kind of answer he will give. So we also know that he will not go into that further.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u425	I can also file that motion immediately if that's what you'd prefer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u426	Then I would like to give you some thought, because then we do not need a third deadline. Then file that motion of censure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u427	Fine. No problem at all. Also clean. Then I will, because the Prime Minister said he would not support the request. My motion would probably not be adopted, so he will say even more that he will not. I find that unacceptable in both cases, so I think it is right that I should now vote for the motion of censure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u428	Our group is relatively small in this House of Representatives, but I would like to say to Mr Wilders that we fully support him, that we find it unbelievable that this can happen in the Netherlands, that an opposition leader is being persecuted for his opinion, by a ministry that clearly wants to shut him down, that we did not think that something like this could happen in the Netherlands, that our First Parliamentary Group also fully supports that we cannot support this, that our entire party, our entire movement, is really shocked by what has come out and that we will therefore support a motion of censure. We will fully support Mr Wilders in the Chamber and beyond, because this can happen to us all if something like this is possible in the Netherlands. We cannot accept this in any way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u429	Okay, Mr. Chairman. Many thanks to the Member of the Forum for Democracy for his sincere support. My colleagues and I very much appreciate that. Mr. Chairman. Hence the next motion now. I'm really sorry to have to file her. I'd rather the Prime Minister had just answered my question. I believe he believes that, too. I didn't come here this week to file a motion of censure. I am doing it now, but it is a different motion of censure from other years, because this is really very fundamental as far as I am concerned. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[expresses confidence in the Prime Minister,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u430	Finally. I also said it in my first term. Whatever happens, whatever happens to the trial, whatever happens to the motion, you won't get us down. The PVV will only get bigger. The PVV will only get stronger. The Dutch will come first again and we twenty, and hopefully much more in the future, will take care of it all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u431	I now give the floor to Mr Dijkhoff on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u432	Mr. Chairman. My in-laws are from Eindhoven and many of my wife's uncles have worked at Philips. Let me say for the rest that there was a vote on the left rather than the right, but we are working on it. I would like to thank all the participants in the debate for a special APB. I call it special now and will not be able to tell what it really was for a while. Or it is a special advocacy to a room with more self-control, with more space on the weekly agenda for topics that have recently played and not with people in the gallery who think in such a debate "when was that again?" Or it's a beautiful, brave attempt that soon, in a few weeks, died in beauty. In recent years, my group was, as I have to admit, a very sparing group, and my predecessors, I have to admit, were more consistent and tighter in this than I am in applying for debates and tabling motions, with the idea that this might have been followed up. That was not the case. At that time, we asked for a lot of debates, because then we would be in the middle of them once in a while. The number of motions has also increased. Then it would be strange if, as Mr Klaver and his group are trying to set an example, I would wait and see if I did not follow it myself. We'll have another group meeting later. If you don't see me again, we're not gonna do this. If you do see me again next week, we will see which debate requests we can weed and clean up. I do believe that Mr Klaver's action has caused some unrest, because next week there are going to be all kinds of debates that have not yet been expected at all. It's gonna be a busy weekend. I think it would be wise and better if we could keep that up. I hope the cabinet has also heard that there is an open attitude in the Chamber when it comes to what is needed to tackle the undermining even harder. It is about powers, about social units, about powers that they alone have and not about others and about things that you would rather not use, but which are really needed. I hope that the cabinet will use that space to come up with proposals that we can deal with in the Chamber. In this way, we can enable people to eliminate this undermining crime and the poison that word is subject to inflation, but I think it is appropriate to ban it from society. It goes further and further into society, even in places where people are not criminal and suffer from it or even fatal consequences. I also hope that the cabinet has heard that such a fund is a fine announcement, but is always going to disappoint. I think we need about 1,000 billion to quote someone else from the Chamber in order to honor all the wishes I'm already hearing. So before we discuss what we're going to spend it on, it's important to see what it's for, what it's for, and what it's not for. There are still a lot of things to be desired that we will still fight as worrying here, but in the regular budget. Before we talk about what a fund looks like, what money is in it, how it's filled up, let alone what it's called or who turns out to be the father of it in the history books, it's crucial that we discuss what it's for and what the economic vision is for in the coming decades. I'm sure I'll expect that. To give an example of the motions, I had in mind a motion with Mr Heerma concerning the display of our credentials, but we are not submitting them. Let's see what the promise does first. Then we can always table a motion if it's disappointing, which we can't imagine. This must be exhibited with all respect and jeu. That's what we're assuming. Finally. I hope we can hold on to the atmosphere. Not because I don't like a sharp debate, I like that too, because that gives more adrenaline and air on...... but because this is a better example of how we can serve people. It's a better example of how you can settle disputes, how you can talk about your differences, how you can settle things fiercely on the matter but not in common with the person. When you get home from your parents that you shouldn't do that at school and you look at parliament and you see it happening there, that seems quite challenging educationally. I hope we'll get rid of that habit before I get into the phase myself that I have to talk to my daughters about that. I hope we last a long time. I'm curious about that. I have already heard from a colleague that he heard on the train he was in today that people were discussing with each other that people in parliament were being so courteous, businesslike and decent with each other. So that's faster than you think. I hope that we will keep this up and that we will not hear in the comments next year that this year was a one-time episode, but that we are back to square one and it goes as usual and usual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u433	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u434	Mr President, thank you. I would like to thank colleagues for the debate and the Prime Minister again for his stamina to answer all the questions put and to start the debate with us. In my first term, I was talking about scoreboard politics, the way we deal with each other. Mr Dijkhoff is right to ask how long we are going to last, the whole tone of this debate and the way we are dealing with each other. That's a good question. That has everything to do with how we pull ourselves into it, and I think that's going to be quite an art. I think many of us, or at least myself, have two souls. We love and the political game and the content. That's gonna collide on a regular basis. It's not like we're never gonna yell at each other again, and we're not gonna yell at each other again or use too bad words. The question is whether we can now restore that balance and whether, if things get out of hand again, we can address each other in a decent way and that we can conduct politics with each other in a solution-oriented way. That's an assignment for all of us. I can feel it. We as a group are going to do our utmost to make a contribution to this. Mr. Chairman. I liked the debate. I would also like to thank the Prime Minister for the way in which he responded and opened up on important points. For my group, it was very important that something finally happens for all those children in child care for whom nothing is now settled. That's what's gonna happen. There will be specialist clinics in the Netherlands where these children and their parents can go. Thank you for that. A second big problem I mentioned was about the vice squad. People who are victims of sex crimes must wait too long for them to be helped. On that point, too, the cabinet says that we must do something about it. I'm glad we can make it through there, too. I'll have a motion on that in a minute, if it's signed properly, pretty much everyone here in the Chamber. I'm pouring it into a motion because it can't be an amendment. The cover comes from the supplementary mail, and you cannot amend it. Mr. Chairman. In my first term, I asked: how do we look back on this debate? How well did he do it? The reviews will be back later. But the question is what problems we have solved. I just mentioned two of which I say we have really taken steps, but I still see problems coming towards us, and one of which is that for a long time it was about education. The Prime Minister seemed to give some space and also some hope to the education that money would be added this year, occasionally. He makes another tough demand: first a collective agreement and then perhaps money is available. We have a problem with our public sector. At least the public sector has a problem with us: the way politics treats them. I hope the Prime Minister understands that, from our logic in The Hague, it is perfectly logical to say that you want to have something first, namely a new collective agreement, and that you can give something, but that it does not mean anything. I am not talking about employers or unions and who are all organized there, but just about people who work there, they don't feel taken seriously. They feel that they are asking for attention, for trust and for additional resources and that this is made dependent on a deal. I really want to ask the cabinet to look at the possibilities in that education budget this autumn and not to make that conditional on the collective bargaining. Have faith. Let us see what we can do as a political step forward. Not because it is a political battle here and it is demanded by opposition parties or by D66, but because we see with each other that this is important for the Netherlands, for all those children who are in too busy classes and for teachers. This remains an important point this autumn. The other big point is the PAS, the 'problematic approach to nitrogen' I have heard the last mention of someone. I had an interrupting debate with the Prime Minister on this. With his lovely words he passed by again. However, let me be absolutely clear: any approach to the problem of nitrogen, where we are going to have rules on the protection of natural areas, or where there should be less nature in the Netherlands, is not open to discussion by my group. Not nature is the problem, but industry, livestock farming, being able to drive fast on the highways. Those are the things we need to solve in order to protect our nature. I don't believe in the idea that we should take nature away to protect nature. That cannot be part of the solution, and we will follow the cabinet closely. And I'd also like to call for an emergency. I understand that the advice that has been requested is awaited. If you ask for advice, it's nice to wait for it. But we need to come up with the solutions quickly. We really, really can't wait too long. Mr. Chairman. I am very curious to see Mr Dijkhoff next week. That's actually the big question. I now have to choose whether to retain Dijkhoff as a colleague here, or to hold fewer debates. The latter is my preference. I would really like it if we could manage to clear that list of debates even further. Each group is concerned about this itself, but I hope that we will succeed in doing so together and that we will actually be able to have those broad-based debates, which we were talking about yesterday. As far as I am concerned, there can also be a budgetary order if we are going to have these debates. That way there will be no rat race. Because this often creates a kind of competition: who is the first to register a debate? I look forward to it, and I would like to mention a number of things that I would very much like to discuss with the Chamber. Anyway, I want to talk about the fund, that magic fund. Another topic I would like to discuss is the crisis in the public sector. Because if something has become clear to me today, it is that the problems in education and care do not stand alone. Mr. Chairman. I'll come to a conclusion. I'm filing one motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that under-employment in the sex police has resulted in hundreds of cases of sexual harassment each year and could therefore take up to a year before the sex police are brought to the attention of the investigation;]] [[Whereas this delay in the interrogation of alleged offenders and of any witnesses may have a negative impact on the truth finding and knowledge of the judgment;]] [[Whereas slow treatment also has a negative impact on the treatment of victims and on their confidence in the government;]] [[calls on the cabinet to invest structuralally 15 million euros in additional capacity of the sex police, in forensic research and in training as vice detectives;]] [[invites the Cabinet to find coverage in the unused 2018 salary and price adjustment tranche on the additional item and to return the specific impact to the Chamber even before the budget treatment of Justice and Security,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Klaver, Buitenweg, Marijnissen, Asscher, Thieme, Jetten, Kuzu, Krol, Dijkhoff, Van der Staaij, Van Kooten-Arissen, Segers, Pieter Heerma and Wilders.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u435	I very much hope that this motion will make it, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u436	Thank you, Mr. Clover. I now give the floor to Mr Heerma on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u437	Mr. Chairman. During dinner break I was thinking about my introduction in second term. But I can reassure Mr Asscher: she is getting a little shorter than yesterday. When I was thinking about that introduction, I also came to the thought that Mr Dijkhoff just said, namely that these were special general political considerations. Well, they're my first, so I don't have a lot of reference material, but I think they were more general political considerations, but they also reflected on the Chamber itself. And at times they were very personal. A lot of family came along, also from a previous generation who was active in this room. But when I thought last night about what the analyses of this debate would be, I thought a little cynical that the word "boring" would fall a lot, because the debate was so substantive. Today I became aware of the fact that I hope that in the coming days this word has fallen very little in the analyses. I thought that was remarkable, because that said something about my own cynicism about what I expected. But it might also say something about the analysts. Maybe they were relieved that it was just a good substantive debate. And maybe it says something else, which is that it wasn't boring. I hope we can keep that up with each other. My group secretary has just whispered to me in my ear, which gives a good example. So next week we are going to see if we can shorten the list of debates together, in order to give Mr Klaver his main debates.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u438	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u439	In my opinion, the President of the Chamber has never been as happy with us as he is at the moment. I would like to table three motions on the occasion of the debate. As I said, it was a reflective debate. I spoke yesterday about citizens getting caught up in the bureaucracy of the government. We see this in various implementation organisations; examples of this also came to the debate yesterday. I welcome the fact that the cabinet is working on this, but I also welcome the fact that yesterday we said that this was such a reflective moment, together with all of us, that we should look at ourselves, at our role as a Chamber in this process, and at how we can prevent the performers from being micromanaged by us and by the decisions we are taking here. To this end, together with Mr Segers and many others, I would like to table a motion for a parliamentary inquiry. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a build-up of problems in government implementation organisations;]] [[Whereas good government functioning is a prerequisite for public trust;]] [[Whereas government implementation is often too anonymous and unhelpful, as protocols and procedures hinder good service provision;]] [[calls on the Bureau to prepare a proposal for a parliamentary inquiry into the causes of problems in implementing organisations, the loss of human size, the role and information position of the House of Representatives itself and how the feasibility of policies can be better ensured in the parliamentary process,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Segers, Mr Jetten, Mr Dijkhoff, Mr Marijnissen, Mr Thieme, Mr Krol, Mr Klaver, Mr Asscher, Mr Baudet and Mr Van der Staaij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u440	The terrible attack in Amsterdam yesterday morning gave an extra load to this debate, but also a profound awareness among all participants. A realization that the rule of law will have to win over the narco state. I thank the Prime Minister for his first-term response and I realise that undermining legislation is in the process of ensuring that local and regional information can be better shared. This is certainly necessary legislation and regulation, but more is needed. To this end, I would like to table the next motion, calling on the Minister of Justice and Security to bring an intervention team undermining under the leadership of the police, together with other partners. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the scale of organised crime and the ensuing undermining of the rule of law are taking forms which cannot be tolerated in our Dutch democratic rule of law;]] [[Whereas organised crime can only be combated by an organised, effective government with sufficient resources and long-term resources;]] [[Calls on the Government to consider how and when an intervention team can be set up undermining, in which national police, KMar, Justice, FIOD, Customs, Tax and Labour Inspectorate cooperate, where possible with social partners, with the sole task of rolling up criminal networks and depriving heavy boys of large sums of money;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure, where necessary through emergency legislation, that all relevant information can be carefully shared within this team and that there is perseverance in order to strike organised crime,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Pieter Heerma and Mr Dijkhoff. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u441	A third topic I asked for attention to in my first term was a new balance between government and market. A new balance so that both become more at the service of society and community spirit. I mentioned the example of the Volksbank and how we should deal with it in the future. I'd like that bank to be different from the banks we have now. In line with the WRR report, I also think that this can have a cleansing effect on how the financial world behaves. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Volksbank is currently owned by the State and that it is being identified which future options are available outside the State;]] [[Whereas the placing on the market without guarantee of utility does not contribute to the desired diversity of the banking landscape;]] [[calls on the government to include in the inventory the option of a social cooperative bank, with fair and understandable products, simple loans for small entrepreneurs, with the highest return for shareholders, but the return for society,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Jetten and Mr Segers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u442	We have had a debate on housing. I have to say, when I wrote my term, I wrote down "home market" by mistake. But every time I do that, Mrs Marijnissen has to look at me very critically and keep me sharp on this. I have co-signed a motion that Mr Asscher is about to submit so that, in addition to what is already happening here, we can deal even better with house milkers through administrative fines. This was an idea that Mr Asscher asked me about yesterday, and I think that is an excellent addition. Finally. Mr Dijkhoff also mentioned this: at the end of the Prime Minister's first term we talked about the birth papers of the Netherlands. I am going to say that I am going to take a critical look at the implementation and implementation of the commitment. Mr Dijkhoff expressed all confidence, with a slight undertone. I was not entirely reassured by the way the Prime Minister replied, but I really hope that by the end of this year we will get a letter saying that our birth papers are going to say it again anyway, get the place in full sunlight that they deserve. It shouldn't be the case that there is a display case at the National Archives where you can look in. I really think that healthy patriotism can have a binding effect and that we should do so in a good way. I see the Minister nodding; that gives me a little more confidence. We're gonna see. Mr. Chairman. I will conclude with a brief reflection on yesterday's debate. I talked about the paradox of this time, the fear of falling, the growing feelings of discomfort among the middle class that their children, the future generation, may have less than themselves, about the coldness of the market and the bureaucracy of the government. It was also a special debate in this area. I don't think so many parties have ever said goodbye to individualism and to too much neoliberalism and market power in this house. I think that's very good. Let's continue with that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u443	Thank you, Mr. Heerma. I now give the floor to Mrs Marijnissen on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u444	I received a note from the President asking how many debates we have on the list. We'll look into it. We'll be in touch. Mr. Chairman. I think we have honored the name "General Political Reviews" these two days. I'm glad. It has to be a debate about our ideas. The word "idea struggle" has fallen today. It's about vision. The word "capitalism" has fallen several times. Mr Heerma has just finished his analysis of the debate, namely that probably never has been said goodbye in such firm terms. It will not surprise you that as a socialist, Mr Rutte reminds me of every debate by consistently calling the Socialist Party the Socialist Party; he did so again today. I am glad that the CDA says that we should say goodbye to the housing market and that we should talk again about and above all think about housing. I am glad that the VVD is still freely translated, in my words 'to file the raw edges of capitalism' and that it is also looking for a way to organise it better, and we no longer believe that it will automatically end up in the workplace when things go well in the top of business. Mr. Chairman. This gives hope, and I hope, above all, that there can also be a change of heart. I'd like to say a little bit more about that. It is, of course, nice if that is the case in word, I will definitely embrace it, but the question is, of course, what is going to change now. I think that's what people at home are waiting for. That's what those full-class teachers are waiting for. That's what those starters who can't get to a place are waiting for. That is where those caregivers who have been led out of their way in the previous period and who are now so badly needed are waiting for. So we will also have to see what happens in practice of all these fine words. The word "reciprocity" also fell a few times yesterday. That is a good word, but we will all understand here that it is not enough just to talk about the reciprocity of companies. In fact, we have made the analysis, at least as a SP, that this is certainly not going to work automatically. That is the lesson we have learned over the past few years. We have seen over the past decades that it can go very well with the profits of companies and with the economy, but that certainly does not mean that it will automatically end up with the people who have worked so hard for it. In fact, we have seen in recent times that this has not happened at all. That change is therefore very much needed, also because many things are no longer self-evident today. For example, it is no longer self-evident that you get your fair share. If you work at a company where huge profits are made and where the benefits to shareholders are high, it is not natural that you also get your fair share of that. It is not natural that you should take advantage of this and that you, as an employee, as the person who made that profit, also look back on your paycheck. That is why we are tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that wages are lagging behind the growth of the economy and the growth of dividend payments;]] [[considers that there should be a degree of reciprocity between companies and the employees who enable the profits of the companies;]] [[points out that, where possible, wages in industry should be increased by at least 5%,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen, Mr Asscher, Mr Klaver, Mr Thieme, Mr Krol, Mr Kuzu, Mr Wilders and Mr Baudet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u445	Mr. Chairman. We have also tried to use these two days to make concrete proposals and thus give substance to our hope of that turn that we hear about, but of which we still see so little. There must be something I'm concerned about while I'm here for my second term. We're dealing with a cabinet that has a lot of money. We have billions left. We are dealing with a cabinet that is in a time of economic prosperity. We're dealing with a cabinet that sits at a time when profits are huge. But we see that we have to fight very hard in society, not so much here, I do not find that very interesting; we have been chosen by people who have gained our trust and we get paid very well every month for this, but for example by teachers, who have to fight hard for extra colleagues, and by healthcare professionals. Today there were actions in the hospitals again, to name but a few. That has not been discussed at all here today. Those people take action, while we talk about questions like, "Oh, what can we do to attract more caregivers?" Well, why don't you start paying them decently? That is what needs to be done, so that there are more colleagues, which reduces the workload. We see that widely across the public sector. It has also been a lot about the police, also in view of the huge call for more investment in security today. So we have also tried to use these two days to make concrete proposals on what we would like to see differently. For example, I've been talking about the health care neighborhood. That is our answer to the question of how to provide care for the elderly for the future with dignity but also justice. How can you grow old in your own neighborhood, with permanent staff, so that there are fixed faces, and with a walk-in function for the neighborhood, so that people who can still live independently at home also have a place where they can go for a chat or for example to eat together? We are willing to think in this way about a concern where the market is less or as far as we are concerned, but is at least less central, as I have heard a number of parties tell these two days here. Another proposal we have made is for a fair pension, which should be taken for granted after a lifetime of hard work, but which is not at all the case today. I've got a motion on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the pension agreement agreed that the prospect of a purchasing power pension would rather be offered;]] [[calls on the Government to prevent reductions in pensions pending the completion of the pension agreement,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen and Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u446	Mr. Chairman. We also discussed today that everyone should have their fair share, but that everyone should also make a fair contribution. This was particularly true of business. We have again discussed the tax on profits, which, in my view, has become a bit of the new dividend tax. And yes, it is true: it is postponed for a year. That's right, but in a year's time, that gift will still go to business. I have said it before: during my life, the tax on profits has been halved. That's the trail we're on, and that's the wrong track as far as we're concerned. It is also good for large companies to ask their fair share to contribute to our society. I do not think we have been able to say anything about this. Finally, Mr President. We have also made a proposal to protect our rule of law, because we think this is necessary. If people can't live up to their rights, injustice will continue to exist. I have a motion on that, too. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that access to justice is under pressure due to the imminent emptiness of social lawyers, resulting in people being deprived of legal assistance;]] [[noting that the Minister has acknowledged that social lawyers are now not receiving reasonable remuneration;]] [[calls on the government to increase the rates of social lawyers in the coming year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Marijnissen, Mr Asscher, Mr Klaver, Mr Krol, Mr Kuzu, Mr Thieme and Mr Van Kooten-Arissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u447	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u448	Thank you, Mrs Marijnissen. I now give the floor to Mr Jetten on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u449	Thank you, Mr President. I too am pleased that we have had a substantive debate over the last two days, in which we have once in a while been fighting each other, but always in a respectful way. As far as I'm concerned, that tastes like more. That is also one of the reasons why D66 made the choice two years ago to join this cabinet: to connect left and right and to show that if you work together, you can also get things done in this country. I am glad that this constructive atmosphere has also been heard by many other parties these days. I hope that, following the climate agreement and the pension agreement, we will also be able to work together on important issues in the coming year. Mr. Chairman. When a debate goes quieter and more boring, you see on social media that people suddenly have time to worry about other things very much. Yesterday I noticed that there were a lot of questions about the colour of my suit and the two different socks of Mr Van Weyenberg on social media. Let me clarify both. My suit has the color petrol. The two different socks Mr Van Weyenberg wore yesterday were no mistake when dressing up early in the morning. No, it's Alzheimer's Socks, to draw attention to research into Alzheimer's disease. Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, in my first term, I drew particular attention to the major questions that we were ordered to answer as a political one. As far as I am concerned, these questions about life and death, about equal opportunities, about the new economy of the future and about what it means to be Dutch in the 21st century. I would once again like to thank the Prime Minister for following up on my appeal, namely to stand here today as the Prime Minister of all the Dutch and to say loud and clear that we in the Netherlands judge people on their actions and what they can contribute to the future of the Netherlands and not on their origins or beliefs. Because there is still a whole world to win, as hundreds of thousands of Dutch born here face discrimination every day, including in the labour market. Mr. Chairman. Yesterday I outlined three questions which have actually come a little unexpectedly towards us in recent weeks. First of all, the problem of nitrogen. I am pleased that the cabinet has also indicated that it is seriously working on reducing nitrogen emissions in our country, that there will be no legal tricks and that the protection of our nature is also at the top of the cabinet's agenda. Fortunately, many parties agree with D66 that we need to prioritize building homes in the near future in order to tackle this disaster in the housing market. If we make nature conservation and housing our top priority, that means that we will have to settle some difficult choices on the nitrogen dossier in the near future. Very unexpectedly, due to a very sad attack in Amsterdam, these Political Reviews were also largely about drug crime and tackling undermining. We will wholeheartedly support the motion by Mr Heerma asking the cabinet to organise the approach to undermining even more effectively, in order to ensure that different parties involved in this can work together even better. I would also like to warn here and ask everyone for some realism. Yeah, organized crime has to be tough on you. Yes, undermining is unacceptable. Yes, lawyers, prosecutors and witnesses must be well protected if criminals are to be charged with their role in drug crime. But there will always be supply and demand. There will always be people who want to use narcotics. Then you can still be so close to the skin and so hard on this crime, we will also have to fight the root problem, and that is by offering an alternative to criminals who produce and offer drugs. This means that we must also dare to talk about regulating and legalising types of drugs. That is also the debate I would like to have with the Chamber in the near future. Finally, we have talked a lot about education these days; education is a key driver for equal opportunities for all. From the left to the right, also by the Prime Minister, it has been stressed that the shortage of teachers is a huge social challenge that we will have to solve together in the coming period. This cabinet has already allocated a great deal of money to 9% increase in wages for teachers in primary education and hundreds of millions to reduce the workload. But since we've been bald in education for ten years, we can't solve that teacher shortage in one year. A large majority of this Chamber is right to ask the cabinet to make this a top priority, to make that class of teacher attractive again, to ensure that all those men and women who are happy to be in class every day experience less work pressure. I am pleased that the cabinet is going to make an effort to see how collective bargaining between school leaders and trade unions can be speeded up and that the cabinet is also prepared to see how extra occasional money can be used to further reduce the workload. But I would also ask the Cabinet if it proves that this is not enough to reduce the shortage of teachers, to come back to us as a Chamber and to indicate what extra is needed to further reduce that shortage of teachers. Finally, I have two motions for resolutions. One is about equal opportunities and the other is about strengthening our parliamentary democracy. I spoke with the Prime Minister in a number of interruption debates with Mrs Marijnissen about access to justice. D66 considers it important for everyone in this country to have access to justice, even if you cannot actually pay for it yourself or find the route to justice. The cabinet is in the process of modernising the whole system of social lawyers, which is also very important, but we see that a lot of social lawyers are threatening to stop. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas effective access to justice is a basic condition for every citizen in a rule of law;]] [[Considering that the legal profession plays a crucial role in achieving that access to justice and that subsidised legal aid is crucial for people with a small grant;]] [[Whereas the Government Agreement agreed to review the system of subsidised legal aid;]] [[noting that the social attorney is currently in severe weather;]] [[Considering that the revision of the system requires time, but that interim measures are needed in the short term to ensure that the social lawyer can continue to operate at level;]] [[calls on the Government to examine as soon as possible where the need is highest and what measures can be taken in the short term pending the final review of the legal aid system,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jetten and Mr Segers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u450	Mr. Chairman. Then my second and final motion. I drew attention to the imbalance between Parliament and the government a few weeks ago. I believe, and many with me, that Parliament has been lagging behind in recent years. It has become increasingly difficult for us to carry out our monitoring task properly, to find time to come up with own-initiative legislation or to be in touch with people in the country who invite us, for work visits or because they would like to tell us something. When we talk about implementing organisations that people can rely on and when we talk about access to the rule of law, we must also dare to talk about strengthening our parliamentary democracy. That's why the next motion. I'm warning you, it's a bit of a technical motion. I have discussed this with the Finance and Home Affairs Ministers. It is a rather technical story, but the bottom line is that we want to strengthen parliamentary democracy. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the future stability of representative democracy is under pressure;]] [[Whereas strong political parties anchored in society are essential for the proper functioning of representative democracy;]] [[Whereas Parliament should have sufficient support to carry out its controlling and grass-roots tasks adequately;]] [[Furthermore, considering that both the State Committee on Parliament's system and the Evaluation and Advisory Committee on the Financing of Political Parties find that the financial support of these political institutions is currently too low to fulfil these roles properly and is relatively low compared to other countries;]] [[calls on the government in the 2020 budget to structurally increase the budget for supporting parliamentarians by EUR 10 million and the subsidy to political parties up to 2024 by EUR 9 million per year and thereafter by EUR 5 million and to inform the Court of Auditors of this including budgetary coverage for the General Financial Reviews, which can be covered by structural under-utilisation in the BZK budget and the deployment of the wage and price adjustment to the additional post,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Jetten, Mr Dijkhoff, Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Segers, Mr Kuzu, Mr Krol, Mr Thieme, Mr Klaver, Mr Asscher, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Van Kooten-Arissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u451	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u452	Thank you, Mr. Jetten. I now give the floor to Mr Asscher on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u453	Mr. Chairman. For me, politics is about struggle. Fight between ideas, between visions for society, battle because you think the others are not doing well and so you want to make it better. Mr. Chairman. That means that I do not think we should use this debate to review ourselves all the time. If anyone thinks I'm not being decent, I'll hear it during the suspension. The same goes for Kees van der Staaij. I know we're the culprits. But please, let us establish that we are talking here about what the government is planning. When I see what she's up to and what she's trying to do against what's needed for that age of the bridge peeper, when I see how she's dealing with the wealth that's there right now, I don't understand that satisfaction. Then I don't see a connection between right and left. Then I see that very reasonable questions are being asked, but that they are being swept away. We spoke here for a reason at the beginning of the debate on the attack on the rule of law, but the question of more police is not answered. We talked about an attack on the rule of law, but more money for the social lawyer is not found. We're talking about the wealth that's required, but while guys are boasting about who's coming up with an investment plan for the future, there's no money for our municipalities to keep the pools open, for libraries and sheltering homeless people. No, there's gonna be a conversation about the systematic kick-on-strap. Is that an answer in the debate? Do we take pleasure in that? There's been a huge crisis in the housing market. I have congratulated you on the changing tone, on the fact that people's housing is back in the debate. But we also know that the corporations are going to pay more taxes on balance and cannot build what is needed, and that the rents are too high. That's a problem for a lot of people in their daily lives. If you're as rich as we are now and say, "Let's throw another 3.5 billion into the treasury next year and this year another 10 billion, on top of last year's 12 billion," how can you explain that we're not able to do anything for the tenants now? I have pleaded for money for the nurses, not even grabbers, I say to the Prime Minister, but hard workers. You know that, you feel the same way, and you feel the same way. But they're considering leaving their profession because of the workload and the reward. I couldn't. Why not? It will not be because of lack of money, because lack of money is not the problem of this cabinet. The problem is lack of awareness of what is now needed in society. That's the golden opportunity you're threatening to miss here. I have advocated money for education, not in the future, theoretically, but now, for the teachers in the classroom, and thus for the children and for our future. I have advocated money for those who work in secondary special education and are paid for to a lower collective agreement. Do you know what it takes? 20 million euros. Do you know what we've lost to income support for the richest expats? 59 million euros. You can make that choice later. I think we should all choose those children, those teachers, for our future. If you are talking about the distribution of wealth, then it is not to be explained that we say to pensioners with a small pension: you get €6 in the month, at least, if your pension fund lasts. It's a political choice how we divide prosperity. It is a political choice whether we really invest in what is for us all. A country is not paid for the performance of the Minister of Finance with his suitcase. No, on the dreams of the future, on the distribution of knowledge, power and income, the way we deal with the people who don't get it all. I do want to win, not for myself, but for the people in society who so often don't win. That is what we have to decide in politics. Mr. Chairman. That's why I have a number of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas each child should be able to count on a good teacher for the class;]] [[noting that the growing shortage of teachers is a threat to equal opportunities in education;]] [[considers that the work of teachers in primary and secondary education is equally important;]] [[calls on the government to allow EUR 560 million in additional expenditure to address the shortage of teachers and to align wages in primary education with wages in secondary education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that every child should be able to count on a good teacher for the class;]] [[noting that teachers in secondary special education now earn less than their colleagues in secondary education;]] [[calls on the government, at the next round of negotiations in secondary education, to offer the sector the opportunity to value vso-teachers to the vo-cao and to release the necessary EUR 20 million for this purpose,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that everyone should be able to be sure of an affordable home, the rent of which fits the quality;]] [[noting that cottage milkers are unacceptably asking for high rents and are not now fined for them;]] [[Whereas the introduction of a substantial fine for over-rented house milkers can ensure fairer and lower rents;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether and in what way municipalities can impose firm (administrative) fines on landlords who deliberately charge too high rents in the regulated housing stock,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher, Mr Klaver and Mr Marijnissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-20]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Asscher, Mr Klaver, Mr Marijnissen, Mr Krol, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Kuzu, Mr Thieme, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Baudet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-21]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Asscher and Mr Pieter Heerma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u454	Mr. Chairman. Finally. So what's the profit? The profit is that I have heard the cabinet acknowledge that more money is needed to combat the shortage of teachers. But the obligation lies there. The obligation there is to take that problem seriously and to ensure that, before we start dealing with that budget, there is good news for the teachers, the children and the parents. Mr. Chairman. The Labour Party will support those plans which it approves, which will bring real progress, which will create new security. Because that's what the middle groups need, that's what the Dutch need. We're voting against plans that don't include that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u455	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Segers on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u456	Madam President. We will take a critical look at all three debates that we have requested. There's one about nuclear power. So I do not know whether Mr Dijkhoff wants us to delete that application or whether he thinks it is a good opportunity to discuss it. But at least we will look at it critically. Madam President. First of all, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his reply and also for his stamina this day and his listening ear yesterday. Thank you for that. I would also like to thank colleagues for the substantive debate. In fact, we should not end up with a political group hug, so I shall at least take Mr Asscher's words on this because it is also a battle for ideas. And if we have to choose in scarcity, then ideas collide. At the same time, it is nice to see that we are somewhere tasting something of a turnaround and that we say goodbye to Mr Martinissen. Let's put it this way. And it's a shift to a society with attention to each other. It is a shift to companies with a sense of responsibility, responsibility for their employees and for creation. It's a switch to a government for whom people are more important than rules. We have also talked about implementation. The first window that people see, that what people experience first: people have to stand for it. Madam President. It was a substantive debate. A journalist just said to me "maybe it wasn't the debate with the highest ratings," because it might have been a little quieter. But for my part, at least as far as I've been able to see it, I think it's the most constructive thing in years. But ideas differ and opinions differ, and we will discuss them. And we are going to talk about it, for example, when we talk about the nitrogen problem. We will have to choose in scarcity: scarce space, scarce air, clean air. Those choices will hurt. We're going to talk about what I call the Joseph Fund anyway. I hope it will make a bit of school, and that Mr Van der Staaij can help with that. But that will also be a choice in scarcity. Even if there is money, we will still have to choose in that scarcity. But we already have a profit in this debate. That is the Prime Minister's commitment to look at extra money to address these bottlenecks if there is a collective agreement in primary education. An important commitment is that people in the workplace, who have to deal with this every day, will then be able to talk about their destination. Madam President. We will end this debate with motions. I have co-signed a number of them, including those of Mr Jetten on legal aid. I underline those words. Access to justice is an important starting point in the rule of law. If it's under pressure, then we need to look at it very carefully. That motion expressed that. I also underline the parliamentary research, the self-reflection I have advocated with Mr Heerma, the support of Parliament in the interests of vital democracy and the support of parties. I have also wholeheartedly supported the motion by GroenLinks to strengthen the vice police. I now come to three motions of my own. The first has to do with the municipal finances. That is the proposal I made with Mr Jetten, which has been widely signed. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the current implementation of the staircase-to-strap system results in substantial fluctuations in municipal budgets;]] [[Whereas, during the current financial year and even retroactively, municipalities are faced with these fluctuations, which mean that they face substantial savings and have no multiannual financial security;]] [[refers to the desire to avoid undesirable effects of the step-on-step systematic;]] [[calls on the Government to examine, together with the VNG, what adjustments to the steps-to-stage municipalities could be made to increase financial security on a multiannual basis, and to present proposals to this effect before the end of the year,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Segers, Mr Jetten, Mr Dijkhoff, Mr Pieter Heerma, Mr Thieme, Mr Krol, Mr Klaver, Mr Kuzu, Mr Baudet, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen and Mr Marijnissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u457	The second motion stems from the coalition-Y manifesto, a plea by young people. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that young people have many opportunities and opportunities in our society, but that there are also concerns about the pressure on young people;]] [[Whereas this pressure also stems from the accumulation of policies and their sometimes disproportionate consequences, as demonstrated, inter alia, in the recent report of the SER Youth Platform;]] [[Whereas it is important to identify the consequences for each generation, from young to old, in the formulation of policies and in the conclusion of political and social agreements, in order to ensure fair and consistent policy choices;]] [[Calls on the Government to develop a generational test to make the generational impact of major policy changes and political and social agreements understandable, and to consider the role the Planning Offices and the Council of State can play in this process;]] [[calls on the government to engage in discussions with social partners on the introduction of a generation test in, for example, ESC opinions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Segers and Mr Jetten. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u458	My final motion is for the police to be strengthened with a view to combating trafficking in human beings and forced prostitution. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Government Agreement expresses the ambition to strengthen the fight against trafficking in human beings;]] [[Whereas this ambition has been further developed and reflected in the approach Against trafficking in human beings;]] [[Whereas the National Rapporteur for Trafficking in Human Beings concludes that the number of persons involved in investigations is falling... suspects, victims and witnesses and that this is an indication that there is less room for the detection of complex and large-scale trafficking in human beings;]] [[Whereas the National Rapporteur on Trafficking in Human Beings also states that training additional specialised detectives is necessary to achieve a more effective approach to trafficking in human beings;]] [[Whereas pressure on available police capacity has increased, inter alia, as a result of additional tasks in the field of national security in relation to migratory flows;]] [[calls on the Government to provide a structural additional EUR 10 million for the AVIM, which will be specifically used to combat trafficking in human beings and forced prostitution, to make a concrete investment proposal to the Court before dealing with the budget of Justice and Security and to this end to include the 2018 wage and price adjustment tranche in the additional post,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Segers and Mr Asscher. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u459	Madam President. There are still major challenges. We are going to talk about this and I hope that the spirit we have experienced here, the spirit of this debate, will continue to be able to discuss our future debate and I wish the Cabinet much wisdom in doing so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u460	Thank you, Mr Segers. I now give the floor to Mrs Thieme on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u461	Thank you, Mr President. For ten years, the General Political Reviews have focused on austerity and burden increases. They've hit big holes in our society. For ten years, the debates in this house were mainly about costs, benefits and their distribution. We simply couldn't afford the future, it seemed. First you had to make money, then you could spend it. For example, the Prime Minister's reply as the opposition pointed to the despair in the care, the shortages in the police and education, and the irresponsible cuts in the Food and War Authority, which followed one food scandal. Last September, the tide turned. Actually, the tide has been turning since 2017. Not only did the cabinet have a budget surplus for the fourth time this year and the government debt fell below the 60% that Brussels is demanding, but there was also room for new policies for the first time and, according to the cabinet, there was no need to cut public expenditure alone. It was significant where the cabinet wanted to spend the freed-up spending space: abolish the dividend tax and reduce corporate tax. Almost $6 billion was left to the cabinet. Accelerating the debt relief was about the main objective. For the green agenda the cabinet claimed to have, much less was left. In my first term, I referred to it as a lack of a sense of reality: too little attention to the real problems, but looking at the world with the eyes of a merchant who cares only about returns, free trade and economic growth. This year, too, the bulk of the surplus goes to the repayment of public debt: EUR 3.4 billion as much as possible. These additional investments for the climate are only coming to an end: an additional 200 million. As if our ecological debt, the exploitation of animals, the poor state of our nature, the climate and biodiversity crisis with which we burden future generations is not much greater and much more important than the sovereign debt they will inherit now. Especially now that we're getting money when we're spending government bonds to invest, and the government debt has never been so low. The lack of a sense of reality is also reflected in the way in which the cabinet talks about its growth fund. This fund is available for sensible investments for the benefit of the "long-term earning capacity of the Netherlands'. This is reflected in the ease with which the Prime Minister, again today, is getting over the possible consequences of the ratification of the Canadian-European Free Trade Agreement CETA for the closure of the gas tap in the North of the Netherlands: millions of claims, filed by gas extraction companies or their Canadian subsidiaries, which, thanks to the investment protection of CETA, can claim compensation for lost revenue. The lack of a sense of reality also sounds in the ease with which the Prime Minister throws away the judge's condemnation of government violation of the nitrogen and nature protection rules with the words: we will have to get maximum creative. Those are the words bankers used until 2008 to lead the regulator astray. It is the words that fiscalists use to help multinationals avoid tax. Mr. Chairman. I am not really surprised that the Prime Minister is so carelessly shrugging his shoulders on the millions of losses that the cabinet is going to suffer on Air France-KLM's shares. In recent years, the Prime Minister has built up the reputation that he likes to spend taxpayers' money on multinationals. Mr Sneller of D66 calculated it yesterday: EUR 194 million loss. That is, ironically, almost as much as the cabinet is doing this year after a lot of hanging and strangling on top of the climate budget. Mr. Chairman. Many people are tired of short-term economic thinking at the expense of humans, animals and our planet. Fortunately, yesterday and today, I also noticed that this applies to many of my colleagues. Capitalism criticism has become trending, not only with the Financial Times, but also with convert Dijkhoff of the VVD. And neoliberalism was explicitly denounced by no less than four parties for the balding in the public sector. Away from thinking that reduces humans, animals and planet to means of production: that's where we need to go. We must avoid sacrificing well-being on the altar of a little bit more economic growth. Let us live to a planet-centred view in which we know our responsibility for the woe and woe of the whole planet with all its inhabitants, big and small. Mr. Chairman. I have three more motions for this cabinet. The budget that this cabinet reserves for development cooperation in 2020 is percentageally back at 46 years ago and this cabinet promised almost one and a half years ago to see if additional investments would be possible if money were available during this cabinet period. Now there are financial windfalls and the cabinet is eagerly looking for investment, but no steps are being taken to comply with the international agreement to spend 0.7% of gross national income on development cooperation. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the Dutch development cooperation budget continues to fall from 0.57% to 0.53% of gross national income;]] [[Whereas it has been agreed at EU and UN level that countries will eventually spend 0.7% of their gross national income on development cooperation;]] [[Considering that in May 2018 the Cabinet promised to look into the possibility of additional investments during this cabinet period, to work towards a budget of 0.7%;]] [[calls on the Government to honour this promise,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Thieme, Mr Asscher, Mr Marijnissen, Mr Klaver, Mr Kuzu, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Krol.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-43]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u462	Mr. Chairman. Then I have a motion on the growth agenda and the investment fund. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Cabinet will make proposals for a growth agenda and an investment fund aimed at economic growth;]] [[considers that, when assessing projects, social and environmental requirements should be at least as high as economic requirements;]] [[calls on the Government to develop a broader review framework for the assessment of possible investments from the Fund in order to exclude that they will have a negative social or environmental impact,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Thieme. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u463	Mr. Chairman. We have also talked extensively about the climate and achieving the Urgenda goals. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that both the court and the court instructed the State in the Urgenda case to comply with its own objective of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by at least 25% by 2020;]] [[calls on the Government to make the most of its efforts to reach the greenhouse gas reduction target by 2020;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Thieme. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u464	I would like to thank my colleagues and the Prime Minister for the debate. My group looks forward to the forthcoming debates with the trade ministers and with colleagues from the other groups in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u465	Thank you, Mrs Thieme. I now give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u466	Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS is already extremely sparing when it comes to requesting debates. We only really do that when it really matters, like last week, when we talked about drug crime. However, we will also take Mr Klaver's appeal to heart and see what we can delete from our list. Thanks to the Prime Minister. It was a valuable debate. I think it has become clear to many viewers which parties do and do not support pensioners. The European Central Bank's free money bazooka has already been called "exceptional" by many economists. The interest rate trap is already being used, while there is not even a recession. At the moment, the newspapers are also full of trade tensions and shifting power relations. Gold price explodes. We now know the bitcoin, which we had never heard of a few years ago. The interest rate is unprecedentedly low and so you could see that we are living in exceptional economic times. I'd like a ruling from the Chamber on that. Mind you. If you vote for my first motion, it will affect Article 142 of the Pension Act. If you do not, then I will find out which of my colleagues wants to claim that we do not live in exceptional economic times. Last week, when Draghi's policy was announced, everyone knew for sure: these are exceptional economic times. If the Chamber does not vote in favour of this motion, we find it significant to see which Members are going to deny that we are living in exceptional economic times. Hence the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting the world's situation in the fields of monetary policy, trade tensions and shifting power relations;]] [[expresses that we live in exceptional economic times,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u467	My second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas pension reductions threaten the purchasing power of millions of workers and pensioners;]] [[Whereas the credibility of the current and future pension system is at stake;]] [[points out that the government, in consultation with all stakeholders, should come forward with concrete proposals well before 31 December 2019 in order to prevent pension reductions by 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Krol and Mr Marijnissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u468	Next move. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Netherlands is a breeding ground for innovation and new technologies, scientific milestones, excellence in sport, et cetera, et cetera;]] [[whereas we should be proud of that and be able to promote it more;]] [[calls on the Government to set up and facilitate an annual "Made-in-the-Netherlands" holiday,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u469	And then the last one, Madam President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the Dutch taxpayer is entitled to a clear understanding of national income and expenditure;]] [[Whereas the accessibility and transparency of state revenue and expenditure are not optimal;]] [[Calls on the Government to consider developing an interactive online tool for everyone to find national income and expenditure through search terms and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Krol. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u470	Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u471	Thank you, Mr. Krol. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u472	Mr. Chairman. It has become a good habit to check the number of requests for debate made by each party. We were able to come up with two, but I do not know if there are any further requests for debate that we have missed. Otherwise, our conclusion is that our group could do a little more. It's always good to think. The other point of reflection, which also belongs here, is the number of motions. Good examples have been given in this evening. I think there's room for motion shame if you have more than two motions in a debate. Maybe groups can do something with it. For example, it is compulsory to treat people when they say that more than two motions must be tabled in a debate. As you know, I am working with a number of Members of Parliament to review the Rules of Procedure. We hope to come soon with an end product. You will not be surprised, but I dare say that there is broad support for watching the culture, how we deal with it. It is not only in the rules; the number of motions plays an important role in this. I won't be surprised to have two motions on me tonight, but they're coming to the end. First of all, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his reply. It was indeed a constructive debate. Many have already established that. This also has to do with the fact that the cabinet has no spirit-related majority in the Upper Chamber. I'd say keep it that way. This is very good, and this promotes constructiveness in the debate. Legislative proposals in preparation to change the choice of the Upper House, creating an electoral threshold and making it all more complicated: never mind. I'm fine, so we can determine. Also the profit warning. The prodigal son also had many friends when there was a lot of money to be made. After that, it became much less. That still obliges us to pay close attention to what we want with each other. It all has to be paid again and also work out well for future generations. Luckily, there's a generation test coming up. It is good to be aware of the fact that the debate on ideas is and remains a part of the parliamentary debate. A connection has been established with the birth papers and the Union of Utrecht. I myself thought it very nice to do a project on the Union of Utrecht at primary school. That was in 1979. I was 11 years old then. That's a nice way, too. Fatherland love can sound very abstract, but celebrating important moments, thinking about beautiful textbooks, are ways to give you something for life. I liked the article from the Union of Utrecht in which freedom of conscience was founded. After a time of inquisition and pyre, it was said: once and for all let us not catch anyone because of what he finds, let him have his own conviction. It's very important to hold on to that. The shared history that we have in that respect is a value that is between our ears. A value which is not self-evident, but which we must defend against, for example, those who come to our country for whom it has not yet become 1579 and come from another culture. They don't always take it for granted. That requires particular attention. If we are to protect ourselves from this, then the problem of salafism has been mentioned, and you should not do so in such a way that we destroy our own freedom. It remains a balancing art to which the SGP Group would like to contribute. On the one hand, we have talked about the protection of the rule of law against organised crime and all that is necessary for that. We will very much be happy to continue the debate on this subject, with unconventional measures, but also with the willingness to consider whether freedom has not gone through. There's also a white powder that undermines the rule of law, and it's called cocaine. The normalization of these drugs does a lot of harm. Speaking of the rule of law, I also need to express the opinion of our group on the point made by Mr Wilders. We saw and see no problem simply in addressing the questions he raised about the involvement of civil servants in the process, including that of an assessment by the cabinet. I understand that this is equally sensitive in the context of criminal proceedings, but in the opinion of our group there is nothing that opposes it. It's cases that ring alarm bells, the involvement of officials in the prosecution of politicians. So our support for Mr Wilders' commitment. Finally, the two motions for resolutions. I will read them to you in the light of time, in the hope that they speak for themselves. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas maintaining the manufacturing industry is of great importance at national and regional level;]] [[Whereas the manufacturing industry is under pressure due to a shortage of highly qualified personnel;]] [[Whereas a region such as the Drechtsteden has a high manufacturing industry with insufficient higher education and a low-attractive housing market for higher-educated talent;]] [[calls on the government to pay specific attention to strengthening the framework conditions for maintaining the regional manufacturing industry as in the Drechtsteden, in the selection of Region Deals and the commitment of the EUR 1 billion for housing,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u473	Then my second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas pensioners are hardly making any progress next year;]] [[Whereas a large proportion of pensioners receive reductions in their pensions;]] [[whereas this affects pensioners financially;]] [[calls on the government to take measures to finance (in particular) the low-income elderly by, for example, increasing the elderly's discount,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Asscher. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-34]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u474	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u475	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u476	Mr. Chairman. Now that Mr Van der Staaij, as one of the longest-standing MPs, political groups, political parties, who have tabled more than two motions for a debate, has threatened to treat them, I have thrown away my seven motions and I only have one on them. In the context of good intentions, I would like to start in this way. Furthermore, I would like to begin with a compliment. I think that is best suited to the tone of this edition of the General Political Reviews. I want to thank the Prime Minister. I would like to thank him for having distanced himself from the remarks made by Geert Wilders, who once again put away an entire population as a problem and even as a poison. We've been hearing it for ten years, but it's just never gonna get used to it. It's a good thing the Prime Minister doesn't go along with that generalisation of the PVV. DENK will therefore stick to this attitude, even in election time. Many Moroccan Dutch people are tired of being thrown into one heap and constantly held responsible for the actions of another that they have nothing to do with. The terrible attack on the Amsterdam lawyer primarily affects the family, the children and ultimately all of us. The whole profession of lawyers has been hit in the heart, and that's horrible. It is also appalling that there are two political parties who want to make a political profit for electoral gain from this event. It is actually unacceptable that they display their xenophobic agenda over the back of this terrible attack. This is a way of populist-right parties, with Wilders and Baudet leading the way: creating unrest with false statistics and feeding the displeasure of a group of people. Let Wilders and Baudet bark. The caravan continues. Mr. Chairman. For the rest, we were actually quite nice to each other during this edition, perhaps because there are no elections ahead. A call was made not to participate in scoring drive anymore, but we are still seeing it happen. The horses are taken off the stables: teachers' salaries, purchasing power for low incomes, middle incomes, the elderly, care, education and so on. Today and yesterday we saw it also happening on the antisocial loan system for students in higher education. Co-architects GroenLinks and the PvdA have already withdrawn their support for the loan system, D66 indicated yesterday that they wanted adjustments to the system and the CDA actually offered space to quickly go to the table to see what can be adapted. There is a large majority to review this in the short term. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the social loan system has been in existence for four years;]] [[Whereas this is an unnecessary financial disadvantage for young people and unnecessarily exposed to debt stress;]] [[calls on the government to start work as soon as possible on a system whereby students receive a decent basic grant, students with low-income parents receive an adequate supplementary grant and as far as possible avoid debt building for students,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u477	Mr. Chairman. Lonely, flexible and flexible as he is, the Prime Minister talked himself through the day today: a joke here, a compliment there, a pledge here and a promise there. He has done so often enough in the previous editions, but at the end of the ride and during the year people felt that very few of those promises were coming. But this year the Prime Minister goes one step further: he even goes out with Geert Wilders and Mr Baudet is not allowed to go. I was asked whether after eight years the Prime Minister wanted to show his face at Keti Koti on 1 July, the commemoration of the abolition of slavery. I also received the request that the Prime Minister, on 11 July, during the Srebrenica remembrance here on the Square, once would like to show his face. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister whether in his second term he would like to make a commitment to be present at these two events of great importance to many Dutch people. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u478	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u479	Madam President. When building a road, you can sometimes disagree enormously on where the traffic lights should be, where a traffic threshold has to be placed, a zebra path, a roundabout. During all these discussions and discussions about this you can forget that you are building a road and that that road is going somewhere. That is what we are doing here; we are talking about the Netherlands of the next generation, the Netherlands of the coming years. Of course, there have been people here who have cited thinkers or tried to sketch a view, but I still feel that the vast majority of the parties are in a state of denial. They are in a state of denial of the true circumstances of our crisis, of what is going on in our country. They do not see how we are losing our country, how we are not really running this country anymore, because the European Union already has so much to say about it. In fact, we are no longer the boss of the streets in many places in the country. In fact, we have put a noose on ourselves with the climate plans, which must be implemented over the next 30 years. This means that we are ruling for future generations of parties and people in the Netherlands. They must implement policies that are not yet affordable in any way. No one has any idea how we're ever gonna fund this. This is a trend reinforced by the fact that refugees who can return will not be returned. I tried to make that clear in my brief debate with Mark Rutte. It just doesn't happen. So there is a trend across the board in the Netherlands and throughout the Western world where we are displaced, expropriated, politically expropriated, spiritually displaced. There are some sensible things that are said about traffic lights, about roundabouts and about the small issues, but I think there is too little, far too little sense of urgency about the steady decline of our country, the direction of that road. We can just stop this, but not for long. Having said that, I would like to table a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament and of the Council,]] [[Notes that the Syrian Ministry of Foreign Affairs has also indicated that large parts of the country are safe and has called on all Syrians abroad to return to their home country;]] [[Considering that the large influx of Syrian asylum seekers to the Netherlands started from 2014;]] [[Whereas status holders who have a temporary residence permit after five years automatically obtain a permanent residence permit and therefore now receive a permanent residence permit every week for thousands of Syrian status holders;]] [[Whereas this has a very adverse impact on both the Netherlands and Syria;]] [[calls on the Minister of Foreign Affairs to travel to Damascus this month to consult with his Syrian counterpart in order to arrive at a simple return arrangement for Syrian status holders residing in the Netherlands before the end of October 2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-36]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u480	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Council of State rejected the PAS measure for Natura 2000 sites;]] [[noting that at present 18,000 construction projects with a total value of EUR 14 billion have come to a standstill;]] [[Whereas the most far-reaching plans are currently underway, such as the halving of livestock, which would drive numerous agricultural entrepreneurs into bankruptcy;]] [[Whereas the Dutch agricultural sector is one of the most innovative, animal-friendly and environmentally friendly in the world;]] [[Whereas countless farmers in the Netherlands work hard on that day to provide us with high-quality food through plans such as halving the livestock into uncertainty;]] [[whereas our farmers deserve all the support;]] [[calls on the government to ensure that any solution to the problem of nitrogen is found, leaving the agricultural sector untouched as much as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-37]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u481	Thank you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the introduction of the loan system in higher education has left a whole generation of high-indebted students even before they have started working life;]] [[noting that the introduction of the loan system has significantly increased the threshold to higher education for large groups of students;]] [[noting that lack of money should not hinder access to training because everyone must be able to develop;]] [[calls on the government to come forward with a proposal to re-introduce the basic grant as it existed until 2015 and to make a compensation scheme for students falling between shore and ship,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u482	Thank you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a huge pressure on the housing market;]] [[noting that the average waiting period for a social housing has now risen to nine years;]] [[Considering that more than 83,000 social housing units have been allocated to more than 141,000 status holders since 2014;]] [[Whereas since 2017 it has been no longer required under the Housing Act to include status holders as an emergency category (which means that municipalities no longer have to give them priority over social housing);]] [[Whereas status holders in by far the majority of municipalities still take precedence over Dutch because of national quotas, as laid down in the Circular Housing Mission Holders;]] [[calls on the government to take measures before the end of the year to abolish this task for municipalities so that municipalities are no longer obliged to allocate homes to status holders by 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u483	Thank you. My final motion, very briefly. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas democracy benefits from a clear separation of powers;]] [[Whereas trust in the rule of law is a fundamental value for the functioning of democracy;]] [[Considering that extremely disturbing reports have reached us about official political influence of the Public Prosecutor's Office, of course from the Ministry of Justice and Security, to apparently, at least for political reasons, smother an unpleasant opposition voice;]] [[points out that even the appearance of persecution of opposition leaders for political reasons is totally undesirable and totally unacceptable;]] [[expresses also that we must do whatever is necessary to ensure that this can never happen again in the Netherlands, if this had happened,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u484	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u485	Thank you, Mr. Baudet. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u486	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to begin by thanking the Chamber, the chairmen of the political groups and the Prime Minister for giving me the opportunity, despite my division, to carry out my duty of conscience. I'm very grateful for that. That could have been very different. I also welcome the serious answer given by the Prime Minister to my questions, although the answer is not one to get into a hallelujah mood; unfortunately. In this respect, I would like to join in the speech of the Animal Party and the Labour Party: there is still a great deal of work to be done. For there have been no commitments made in the area of connecting nature reserves, maintaining nature reserves, giving more wages to police officers and resolving the chaos at UWV and the Tax Administration. In addition, not many commitments have been made with regard to the very vulnerable groups in society: the Libyans, the transgenders, the young and the elderly. There's still a lot of work to be done. What I am very pleased with is the response to the proposals made by several parties in the Chamber, including myself, to renew democracy and to have a good debate with each other on the main lines and to deal with each other in a way that allows us to work together to arrive at solutions that make the Netherlands viable for humans and animals. I have co-signed many motions from the various parties to implement this cooperation immediately. In the various budget debates in which the various directors will defend their budgets for the various budget portfolios, I will table motions and proposals. I hope there will be cooperation with the other Members of Parliament. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u487	Thank you. That also brings us to the end of the second... No, Mrs Thieme had another slight change to a motion she tabled. Maybe it'll help if you mention the number. Do you remember?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u488	That's gonna work. That's the motion in part No. 27. This is the second recital, which begins with "confidence." I'll remove it from the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u489	The Thieme motion (No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Cabinet will make proposals for a growth agenda and an investment fund aimed at economic growth;]] [[calls on the Government to develop a broader review framework for the assessment of possible investments from the Fund, in order to exclude that they will have a negative social or environmental impact,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets no, was no. 27 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u490	Before I give the floor to the Prime Minister, I shall first give the floor to Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u491	Thank you. I would like to amend my fifth motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u492	That's the motion in part No. 40.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u493	That's right. That sounds so decent, that "in part no.'. "Step No."! In the third paragraph of my motion in part No. 40 I would like to delete what comes after 'apparently' to 'to be smothered'. In the fourth paragraph, I would like to delete 'unwishable and complete', so that the third paragraph ends with 'Justice and Security'. This is what I'm gonna tell the Warrior. He'll fix this and then it'll be handed out like this, I think. The fourth paragraph therefore ends with 'for political reasons is totally unacceptable'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u494	The Baudet motion (No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas democracy benefits from a clear separation of powers;]] [[Whereas trust in the rule of law is a fundamental value for the functioning of democracy;]] [[noting that extremely disturbing reports have reached us about official political influence of the Public Prosecutor's Office, of course from the Ministry of Justice and Security;]] [[points out that even raising the appearance of persecution of opposition leaders for political reasons is totally unacceptable;]] [[says that we must do whatever is necessary to ensure that this can never happen again in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets no, was no. 40 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u495	Mr. Chairman. A slight change in the motion in part No. 26. The third paragraph states that "to work towards a budget of 0.7%'. That's going to be "targeting for a budget of 0.7%."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u496	The Thieme c.s. motion. (, No ) has been amended to read as follows: The Chamber, heard the debate, having noted that the Dutch development cooperation budget continues to fall from 0.57% (2019) to 0.53% of gross national income (in 2020); Whereas it has been agreed at EU and UN level that countries will eventually spend 0.7% of their gross national income on development cooperation; Considering that in May 2018 the Cabinet promised to look into the possibility of additional investments during this cabinet period, "to aim for a budget of 0.7%"; calls on the Government to honour this promise, and goes to the order of the day. She's getting No. 43 was No. 26 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u497	Mr. Chairman. I would like to announce in advance that I want a roll-call vote on my motion on item No. 10.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u498	Okay. We shall then take a roll-call vote on the motion on item No. 10, by Mr Wilders. I now give the floor to the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u499	Mr President, thank you. I will start with a few points that were partly still there after my answer in the first period. I also have one question from the second term. Then I'll get to the motions. I come first to the questions, starting with the question about the nursing home care places. I had a conversation with Geert Wilders from the PVV. And yes, it is, of course, true that waiting lists are increasing and that the labour market is tight. We're working really hard on that. There is a difference between active and inactive people waiting on the waiting lists for nursing home care. Clients who are actively waiting are actively mediated by the healthcare office. This also usually works within the standards. It's gonna happen as soon as possible. The inactive have been given an indication and often an offer, but do not take advantage of it for them. They get care at home and they're on the waiting list for an interview. They have therefore indicated a particular place of preference and are awaiting it. That's one. Then two. A motion was adopted by Mrs Agema of the PVV calling for a review of that distinction between those two categories. The Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport has promised to come up with a response to this question. He's hoping to send it next week. This is without prejudice to the duty of care offices to provide sufficient places in nursing homes. Every year we make sufficient budget available on the basis of the advice of the Dutch Healthcare Authority. Waiting lists are also taken into account. The VWS Minister will send a letter next week on the development of demand and capacity. He will also address the question of how these two relate to each other. In December, a letter will follow on the issue of existing capacity, including in relation to real estate in relation to demographic developments. So there will be documents and then the debate will take place further. The second theme is dementia. Indeed, the number of people with dementia indicators is expected to double towards 2040. The RIVM expects a doubling of 172.000 people to 337.000 people. This is also taken into account in the annual growth of the available budget, but it calls for more than just resources. That is why there is also considerable investment in the quality of nursing home care. That's what happens with the program Home in the Nursing Home. With the Work in Care programme, we are committed to providing sufficient care staff. The Langer Home programme is working on the quality of care. For the Work in Care programme, 50 million extra has been released from the VWS budget. This is specifically used to maintain staff and train people for care, making a total of 420 million available for this subject. Nevertheless, more needs to be done in the future, because demand for care will increase significantly over the next 20 years. The number of employees in the care sector and caregivers is not likely to grow to the same extent over the next twenty years. This means that a number of fundamental discussions need to take place on how to organise care. That is precisely why VWS leaders announced that they would come forward with proposals in the first half of next year, before the summer, to better organise care and make it future-proof. In the same context, there was another question from Mr van der Staaij about measures to get enough hands on the bed and, if necessary, unorthodox measures. The cabinet wants to try to do something about this, but the question is exactly what measures work. Unorthodox, yes. But they must also be effective. It is not easy to solve this problem. That is why we are already looking at how innovations in care can help to do the same with fewer people, of course, while maintaining quality. The cabinet also shows what needs to be cared for in the region. Then we can also look into whether and, if so, what unorthodox measures can work. The outline note will therefore be given and sent in the spring. It will also examine the type of measures needed. That does not alter the fact that a great deal is already happening. I would just like to refer to my previous answer on the Working in Care programme, which also looks at a sector-wide approach. Then it is intended that it is measurable and there is a noticeable result. This is done through three lines of action. First of all, it is intended that more people should opt for training and a job in health care. By doing so, we are trying to increase the influx and the number of re-enterers and side-intromers; in this sense, there is again analogy with the education issue. The second has to do with learning: learning better in care. This means that there is sufficient availability of sufficient and good traineeships, including in order to increase the efficiency of training. The third is working differently. It is important that employees in the care find it more pleasant in the care, so that they can work well there. This means that the workload needs to be addressed. It is also about the question of what we can do that is necessary in the field of training, of being able to develop and of getting a good team mix. All these factors need to be right when it comes to the question of choice, the issue of training and learning, but also to ensure that people have a good time. Additional funding is available: for training, for advice to job seekers, for career interviews and for a recruitment campaign. We keep a finger on the wrist, even several fingers on the wrist, through the Committee Working in the care. The Spring Report is due to the Chamber this autumn. Then there was the question about the azc in Gilze. For this purpose, in general terms, the shelter is sober within the azc's and consists of accommodation, living expenses and access to basic facilities such as medical care. This is also the case in the scheme for asylum seekers and other categories of foreigners. Specifically in Gilze it is a maintenance and improvement programme, so that this reception site can be used for a longer period of time. It's a monumental building in Gilze owned by the COA. The COA has a duty of care to maintain that monument. There is the specific circumstance that this is not just an asylum-seekers' centre, but an azc in a monument. Then there is Mrs Marijnissen's question which I would like to return to. I was informed about the content of the documents during the week before Grapperhaus sent his letter to the Chamber, so that is prior to 10 September last. The Animal Party: the CETA Convention. It's about a claim in relation to Groningen. Here's what I'm gonna do. NU.nl reported on a pamphlet by Milieudefensie, FNV en Handel Anders!, in which they argue that the EU Trade Treaty with Canada, CETA, may impede the phasing out of gas extraction in Groningen. The link these NGOs make between CETA and Groningen fits within their criticism of investment protection in general, but frankly, in this particular case, they really miss the point. It is precisely in view of the criticism of investment protection that CETA's Treaty text has been modernised and the right of governments to regulate and the public interest has been confirmed. CETA thus grants foreign investors the right to compensation only in the case of expropriation which is not in the public interest or where no adequate compensation has been paid. During the phase-out of the Groningen gas extraction issue, the Groningenveld, a public interest is sought and agreements have been made, also in the financial sense, with Shell and ExxonMobil in the main agreement. Part of the agreements contained in that agreement is that the NAM, Shell and Exxon renounce any claims on the State in connection with gas reserves in the Groningen field that will not be won. Then there is Mr Segers' first-term question about a one-stop shop for sustainability. The way in which Mr Segers describes it cannot and must not be the intention. The ambition of the cabinet is to support and facilitate people in the sustainability of the built environment. A system has been chosen in which everything around the house, the street and the heat plans is located at the municipality. I do not want to rule over the head of the municipalities, but I think we should take this kind of example seriously, so I take it seriously. At regionalenergiestof.nl you can see whether a municipality has an energy window. Such a point of contact can, of course, help to request and assess a quote or other questions. The climate agreement has agreed to broaden the points of contact with energy. VNG and Rijk are now discussing proposals for minimum criteria, standardisation and standardisation. That will therefore also help the neighbourhood approach. I think it is important that citizens are properly supported and informed in this way. That must of course be free in the base. Municipalities can choose to offer detailed personal advice through these points of contact and could cost, but the basic opinion should be free of charge. My colleagues in the cabinet, Mr Ollongren of the Interior and Mr Wiebes of Economic Affairs and Climate, will, in their consultation with the municipalities, draw attention to the need for the basic information provision to be available free of charge as far as we are concerned. In addition, efforts are being made to develop widely available care-free offerings for citizens and businesses. You will be informed about this by the Minister for the Interior, Mrs Ollongren, this autumn. Finally, a question from Mr Kuzu's second term. It was about my presence at remembrances. I'm very regularly present at a lot of remembrances. I take these suggestions very much to heart, of course. For example, in 2012 I attended the commemoration of slavery. It is attended annually by a member of the cabinet, each year by another member of the board, usually from the corner of Education, Social Affairs, Home Affairs or Justice. The commemoration of Srebrenica is attended in The Hague by the Minister of Defence. The Netherlands is represented in Bosnia at diplomatic level. I am not going to complete my agenda here, but I am, of course, taking note of Mr Kuzu's suggestions. Once again, I am present at many commemorations and it is also very conceivable that I will be present at such a memorial, but I am not going to record it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u500	A brief comment, Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u501	It was about Keti Koti. The Prime Minister was indeed there in 2012, but the people would like to see him there again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u502	Of course, I have heard that of course, and I will go with Mr Baudet. Then we took care of that right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u503	Then there's the motions. The Wilders motion in part No. 7 I should like to advise against referring to the debate. The Wilders motion in part No. I will also advise against 8 with a reference to the debate. The Wilders motion in part No. 9 calls on the government to remove the threat of pension deficits. We have discussed this extensively in several rounds, and I would also like to advise against it. The Wilders motion in part No. 10, of course, I don't care about that, although it has a huge impact on me, if it is accepted. The motion-Klaver c.s. in piece No. 11 on sex crimes and police: Judgment Chamber. Once for the purpose of motion et cetera. The Pieter Heerma c.s. motion in piece No. 12: Judgment Room. The motion by Mr Pieter Heerma and Mr Dijkhoff to item No. 13: Judgment Room. The motion in part No. 14 of CDA, D66 and Christian Union on the Volksbank is, in our opinion, Chamber. Then there is the Marijnissen c.s motion. in piece No. 15. This is not a motion for a decision from the cabinet, so I will not give an opinion on it. May I point out that what I said in a party political sense was not about business but about the very large companies and the great discrepancy between the top salary and the people working there. So that had a different meaning. If that is the reason to include my words in the motion, it is not, I did not say that and I am not going to judge it, because it is not a request to the government. In the motion in part No. 16 is again about preventing pension reductions. This was also discussed in detail in the first term of the Chamber. Dissuade. The motion in part No. 17 is about legal aid and social law. I have discussed in detail in the first period that the Minister for Legal Protection is setting up a new system. With the measures envisaged, a better reward for participants will come into sight. If the motion asks to anticipate that by increasing the hourly rate, then the motion is even impossible. At least right now, I have to dissuade her. The motion in part No. 18 is about legal aid. Here too, we must be careful not to engage in project management in the Chamber. We are introducing that system. If that system works as it should work, there will eventually be a better reward for the participants. If the motion asks to anticipate that now by raising the hourly rate, then we have the same problem. But I can give the motion judgment Chamber if I may read it like this: during the introduction of the new system, we keep a close eye on the position of the participating individual attorney and we strengthen that position where possible working road so it is not primarily about the hourly rate, not just about the hourly rate. I will then give that interpretation to the motion and with that interpretation the judgment is Chamber. So there's no extra money. I need to be very clear about that. That's not foreseen here. The motion in part No. 19: Judgment Room. The motion in part No. 20. There is no cover for this and therefore: dissuade. Then the motion to part No. 21. The work of the teachers is incredibly important, but I can only discourage this motion. I must also point out that, if you want to achieve this, you are talking about an amount of 285 million. If all teachers in secondary special education are brought under the collective agreement for secondary education, it will cost 120 million in itself and not 20 million. There is no cover for that. The motion in part No. 22 of the Labour Party and the CDA: Judgement of Chamber. The motion in part No. 23 over stair-to-strap-off: judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. 24 on the generation test: judge Room. Mr Segers and Mr Asscher's motion for a resolution (Doc. 25 on trafficking in human beings: judgment of Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 26. An adjustment has been made and I understand that it now says: "attempting." It is therefore the literal text of the Foreign Trade and Development Co-operation Note and there is a parallel with the Defence Note. Then it's judgment room. So then it's not that there's money, then it's a pursuit. So there is no money available now. The motion in part No. 27 is about the broader review framework. I think it would be best to keep it until the letter of the Minister for Economic Affairs on this subject is dealt with and to involve it in it. I would like to ask Mrs Thieme that. If she puts this motion to the vote now, I must advise against the motion at this stage, but I can imagine that it could be part of the reflection on the piece that will appear later this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u504	If the Prime Minister goes to work very hard, I'll hold her on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u505	Great.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u506	At the request of Mrs Thieme, I propose her amended motion (35300, No. 41 was No. 27). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u507	Mrs Thieme's motion on item No. 28 is Judgment Room. The motion in part No. 29 concerns Article 142 of the Pension Act. I would ask Mr Krol to hold this motion until the Social Affairs budget is dealt with, because then there will also be a further discussion on pensions. If this motion is to be put to the vote now, I must advise against it because it is a direct reference to Article 142 of the Pension Act. To be honest, he did.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u508	I think this motion is so important. The people in the country are waiting for it. I would even like a roll-call vote on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u509	Okay, but then I'm gonna have to dissuade her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u510	Then we shall vote by roll call.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u511	The motion in part No. 30: dissuade. The motion in part No. 31 is about the annual holiday. We talked about that, of course. I would nevertheless like to discourage that motion on balance. If I make the motion to part No. 32 can read that we will continue to develop www.rijksfinanciën.nl, then it is fine. With that interpretation, it is, as far as we are concerned, Chamber. The motion in part No. 33 is about the Region Deals. I have no choice but to reject this motion, because we cannot anticipate the use of the Envelope Region and the housing impulse. This motion is too much ahead of the decision-making process. We understand the meaning of it. For example, the manufacturing industry and education can be part of a Region Deal. That's right. That is also one of the balancing frameworks. The Drechtsteden can submit a proposal for a Region Deal. So a lot of sympathy for what's here. But at the moment it is too far ahead of the decision-making process. In the end, therefore, there must be an open competition between the various proposals submitted.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u512	I want to hold this motion, hear the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u513	At the request of Mr Van der Staaij, I propose his motion (35300, No. 33). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u514	The motion in part No. 34 calls on the government to take measures to finance (in particular) elderly people with low incomes. Of course, we have a whole package of relief. We've talked about it in detail. I understand the subject, but I still have to discourage the motion, even with a reference to the debate. DENK's motion in part No. 35 is not recommended with a reference to the wide-ranging discussion on this issue. The motion in part No. 36 by Mr Baudet. It is not recommended with a reference to our extensive exchange of views. The same applies to the motion in part No. 37. Moreover, this motion, which states that the agricultural sector must be kept as safe as possible, does require me to ask what Mr Cliteur thinks of this motion. If this is an attempt by Mr Baudet to facilitate a conversation within his own party, then he has succeeded. But I would ask Mr Cliteur to pay particular attention to the motion on item No. 37. I can't wait to see how he relates to that. That is, of course, the advantage if all former party mates go elsewhere. Then you know a little what they think. The motion in part No. 38 is not recommended. The motion in part No. 39 is also discouraged by a reference to the debate in the Chamber. The same applies to the motion in part No. 40, because it is too capable and indirectly referred to the case that we have also had to deal with today, including in the last ruling. That's why I have to discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u515	Mr. Chairman. If it's okay, our amended motion becomes part number one. 15 now processed and distributed. That's the motion on wages. We would like to change the operative part to the following: it states that, where possible, wages in large companies should be increased by 5%.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u516	The Marijnissen c.s. motion (, No ) has been amended to read as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that wages are lagging behind the growth of the economy and the growth of dividend payments;]] [[considers that there should be a degree of reciprocity between companies and the employees who enable the profits of the companies;]] [[points out that, where possible, wages in large companies should be increased by 5%,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported. She gets no, was no. 15 ().
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u517	Mr. Chairman. In conclusion, I would like to say a few words. Today we started the General Reviews yesterday but also today we are thinking about the horrible event in Amsterdam, in which a lawyer was killed. That is an attack on our rule of law and the Minister of Justice, Ferd Grapperhaus, has taken immediate action. Police and justice are now working to track down the perpetrator to bring him to justice. But all the other measures that have been mentioned are now being implemented. That was a theme, a heavy cloud hanging above this debate. It was a git gray air hanging above this debate. Nevertheless, in addition to this subject, during these General Reviews, we also discussed a variety of other topics, based of course on the National Budget and other documents that were sent to you on Tuesday. Indeed, this economic development is something I have said; there are many here too, and the budgetary figures are not unfavourable, but they must be placed against the backdrop of an unpredictable international context. I refer to trade disputes, Brexit and, of course, the agreements we have made with our partners within the European Union. Here too, it is important that we should, and continue to, focus on the fundamental choices to be made for the future of our country in this Chamber, in particular on the content, with arguments and facts playing a decisive role. I agree with Asscher: that is also a debate, fierce, about the contradictions between the great political movements, the great political movements, but ultimately with the aim of seeing whether you can come to an agreement on elements and perhaps even totality. That will not always work, but if the debate is conducted from the point of view of content, it will have enormous added value. As far as I am concerned, this type of debate between the Chamber and the Cabinet is also justified in our parliamentary democracy by the principles of our birth papers, such as the Abandonment of 1581, but also by the freedom regained in 1945. The King also referred to this in the Throne Address. The cabinet's commitment in these debates with the Chamber is aimed at achieving, if possible, broad agreement on policy, so that it is possible to achieve a sustainable economic and social development that creates conditions for a new golden age. As far as I'm concerned, we're also talking about the 17th century as a golden age. Others don't want that. I think so, but may we at least agree that we want to work together towards a new golden age. A century in which our country is once again able to distinguish itself positively in all areas of interest for the future, each time one or more steps ahead and thus inspire others in the world. Whether it is about climate, the country's long-term earning ability or the balance that is needed between all the interests of generations of people and ecology. That is what we should work on as far as I am concerned, and I would like to thank everyone for their contribution to these general considerations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u518	Thank you. That is what brought us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-19-tweedekamer-6.u519	We shall vote on the motions tabled in half an hour. There is a need for a half-hour suspension.
