ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u1	The next item is Part Two of the VWS budget. A warm word of welcome to both ministers. Oh, I see they're still being photographed by the Secretary of State, who's a bit of a catch-up. It's all possible. I'm glad you're all here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u2	We have quite a number of participants, because there were no less than nineteen spokesmen from the Chamber yesterday. Today we will first listen to the three rulers. We start half an hour early, which in itself is nice. Mr De Jonge of course thought: ah, then I can talk for half an hour longer. That's not how it works. It is rumored that Mr De Jonge, who is already known for his punctuality and his conciseness, will excel even more in short and pointy answers today. I say that with a certain smile on the face, but I mean it seriously, because we have a debate with 19 spokesmen who want to say a lot. It is a budget of a Lousy 88 billion, with three directors, and there are a lot of questions about it. It would therefore be nice if the rulers also wanted to speak briefly and pointically. Then there's a little more room for the room. Mrs. Ellemeet, what can I do for you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u3	Mr President, an hour ago we received 102 pages of answers to the questions we asked yesterday. I would like to say here that yesterday we gave our input to the debate and that we expect that we will now also receive the answers to our questions in the debate. There can be no reference to these 102 pages, because we have not had time to read them properly. It would also be a bit of the death of the debate if we were to have it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u4	Yes. Well, I see a nodding minister, so I understand it's in the bag.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u5	Minister De Jonge, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u6	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the members of the Chamber for their contributions in the first term. Of course, I would also like to thank the President for his encouragement to be brief and concise today. I hope to surprise you. All 252 questions put yesterday have already been answered in writing, which has just been recalled. And, of course, you had already received the answer to the more than 1,100 written questions put before the budget debate. So I could say here: thank you! Then you'll probably say, "But is that it?" And then I'll tell you: yes, that's what a succinct coach you advise can do to a human being, Mr. President. But, of course, we are doing it as Mrs Ellemeet says. We do justice to the questions that have been asked, but because there are so many, and because at the same time there is a desire to make some clarity about them, I think it would be a good idea if we were to bring back the questions that live in several groups and which have been put forward most impregnantly. But any other question you would like to add is of course also fine. I should like to classify my speech as follows. After a more general introduction I would like to go into the blocks: organization of care, nursing home care, living and caring, care support, life with a limitation, legality and care cowboys and, finally, euthanasia. That, I believe, is the most appropriate classification, taking into account the questions that were asked yesterday. Of course, colleagues will then continue on their own portfolio. Mr. Chairman. Whatever group is speaking here, there is one thing that we all agree on: concern is human work. It is not the laws and not the systems, but the people who make the difference in care every day. And what wonderful people work in that care! You gave them a name yesterday. Janet, by Mrs Dik-Faber, Wendy, by Mr Hijink, Astrid, by Mr Van Gerven, and so much more. People who are committed to caring for others with heart and soul: we have to cherish those people, and so we must organise care so that we do not hinder them, but help them to make a difference in people's lives. That's the point. With that motivation, we all make our choices. Mr. Chairman. Mr. Veldman told us that if you need care or support, you can only be the best in the Netherlands. I'll share that. Our concern is good and accessible to all and is characterised by solidarity. Young pays for old, healthy pays for sick and rich pays for poor. I agree with Mrs Ploumen that this is something to cherish. But what we cherish is usually also vulnerable, and that certainly applies to the care. Mrs Van den Berg quoted Einstein, who said, "If we keep doing what we did, we'll get what we got." I'd like to say something else: if we keep doing what we did, we're getting less and less of what we got. Because not only are we getting older together, there are also more and more elderly people. That is something to be thankful for, Mrs Laan made that very tangible, but it is also cause for concern. Count me in. Up to 2040 the number of 75-plussers doubles, the number of 90-plussers goes times three and the number of people goes over 100 times four. Unfortunately, not everyone gets old in good health. Thus, the number of people with dementia will double. The number of people with multiple chronic diseases is also increasing. All for the next 20 years. So that demand for care is going to rise enormously. The same applies to expenditure on health care. Next year we are expected to spend another 3 billion more than this year. For the Amsterdammers among us: that is what the North/South line has cost about twenty years. For the Rotterdammers among us: you can build a new Feijenoord Stadium about nine times. And especially for our chairman, that's about 140,000 hours of public service broadcasting. And then we get to 88 billion. And yet paying for care is not our biggest problem, because long before the money runs out, people are out of care, at least, the extra people for care. Already one in seven people works in healthcare, and that should be one in four by 2040. But of course that is never going to happen; that call on the labour market is not real. That was said yesterday by several of you. Mr. Chairman. I was just talking about 2040, but the problems we foresee before then are already casting their shadows ahead. Because we already see that the way we organise our care sometimes cracks. Some of you have pointed this out. That's what this place is all about. We see this, for example, in the difficult job vacancies. That's why we're pulling everything out of the closet to recruit more people; that's what we're doing to keep the care. We can tell by the rising waiting times for nursing care. Mr Van der Staaij and, among others, Mrs Bergkamp and Mrs Laan mentioned them. We need to reduce it now. I'll come back to that later. And we see it, for example, in the effort that it sometimes takes to arrange temporary stays for a patient. And that's what we're doing right now. So no questions for later. That future is now. Over the next 20 years, we will face a huge task. Yesterday, in the contributions of the political groups, I heard various proposals for dealing with this task or proposals that affect that mission. I'm gonna go into that later. Because that's the kind of idea we're gonna need to get that concern ready for the future. There's not one silver bullet. Mrs Agema rightly said that we will have to pick all the fruit, not just the low-hanging fruit. Fortunately, we can see that some of the solutions are already among us. Prevention, for example. Prevention is better than cure, Mrs. Van Esch said. My colleague, Mr Blokhuis, will discuss this in detail. We will also have to make much more work out of job-saving innovations so that we can free hands for the work that can only be done by people. My colleague Bruins is about to go into that. [[Sentence could not be parsed: We zullen ook toe moeten naar een andere manier van onze zorg organiseren.]] Which brings me to my first block, the organizability. Mr. Chairman. To keep the care organizeable, we have to get to work. Several questions have been asked about the necessity, about the process that the cabinet wants to go through up to the outline note and about its content. What is the Minister's response to the major challenges, asked Mrs Bergkamp. Mr Van der Staaij asked if I could outline the outline of the contour note. And if I could do it again in ordinary human language, Mrs. Laan said. Of course, I'm gonna do my best to do that. Anyone who lets the numbers work in themselves understands that we need to do more about prevention, innovation and organize it differently. I'm zooming in on the organization. The care that people need is paid for by the municipality, the health care office or the health insurance company. On the one hand, we have a statutory right to care. On the other hand, there is a duty to provide this care, with three different financiers. There are, you might say, three systems next to each other. The choices that have led to this can all be understood from the past, but now we see that it sometimes cracks, especially in the transition between those systems, or in the responsibilities that have to be taken over them. We have the question of whether we are ready for the future. Our answer is, no, we're not ready for that yet. A number of examples. If people are in a hospital for too long because there is not enough room in the nursing home, for example because there is not enough temporary stay to be found, who is the move and how do we organise and finance it sustainably? Some of you have mentioned this example. For example, in municipal care, long-term care and health-insured care, there may also be a shortage of staff in a region. In one region, the shortage of staff can be much greater than in the other. However, care obligations must all be fulfilled. Is it every man for himself, or should one turn to the table? What do we expect from the different players? Then who is responsible for ensuring that we can meet the rising demand for care in each region? And if those care obligations can only be fulfilled if you do so together, what does that mean for the supervision of those care obligations, for example by the NZa? How do we see that? Who then supervises how the whole works, how it works together? This should be the subject of greater coherence in the organisation of care in the region, and of greater accountability. You want to know who to put on his jacket if things don't go well, you want more direction. More certainty that it will be arranged and that it will be arranged. We're going to deal with that process as follows. Some of that work is already happening, of course. For example, we have the regional images. These images are already being made. In the spring we will take stock, together with health insurers, municipalities and health offices: has there indeed been a good analysis in each region of the development of care demand, of the supply needed to properly serve that care demand and of the current supply? In this way, you can determine how much supply is still needed, who is in a position to do so and whether you are going to make it in the current labour market or whether other solutions are needed. It depends on the degree of concreteity whether these images are sufficient. They're being made now. In the spring we will take stock of the situation. A second development that we have already started is the cooperation agenda between the VNG and healthcare insurers Netherlands. This is important, because there are joint jobs, especially around older people, but also around ggz and prevention. You don't want part of that development to remain between the two parties. You want that agenda to be made in common. It is currently developing, focusing on these three themes. In spring, we will look at how the cooperation agenda in the region has been made concrete. That's what's already being done right now. In addition, we will also work on a number of things ourselves. All figures available from RIVM and in the future exploration are analysed, as are other sources. The supervisors will be involved, namely the NZa, the IGJ, the Zorginstituut and the ACM, to make their contribution and to think with us. Scientists will be invited to think along. With all the parties concerned, we will first analyse what is needed for the coming years and look at the bottlenecks that emerge from that analysis. After that, of course, there is also a solution. We process all this in the contour note that we want to steer towards the Chamber on the edge of the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u7	Thank you for this process description. It's a bit of what we were afraid of. The question to the Minister is who you can pull on his jacket at what time. The Minister talks extensively with the field and with everyone, which is extremely important, but where are the political pickposts that are being beaten here in this Chamber to give you what we as representatives of the people consider important in this contour note?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u8	Today and in every debate that follows today. I'm sure you will. If, for example, we have the debate on the Wtza and the new entrants within a few weeks, that is an issue that is particularly important. If we have a debate about working in the care sector, that is a debate that is particularly relevant to this issue. I think that in all these debates you will give the picket posts in the direction of the cabinet. Yesterday the question was also asked whether it is possible not only to get a piece of the cabinet not only on the edge of summer but also earlier in order, in your terms, to strike further pike poles; that was so formulated yesterday, but I assume that you do want to do so. Yeah, that's possible. I'll say it's a big and complex process we have to do. But, of course, your move. If you say that you do not want to be confronted only with the outcome of the contour note, but that you also want to be able to give something in order to achieve it, then I think we should just make the agreement that we are trying to outline the state of mind at that time in the spring. I think that's a good thing to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u9	In fact, I asked the question how we are going to meet the challenges of care and what the Minister's response to them is. The Minister states that more cooperation and direction are needed. That direction is still missing too often. More direction can make it happen. My question is whether this minister is not in charge. He also talks a lot about the region. On this basis, I have also looked at what the region actually is, also looking at democratic legitimacy. For example, there are 32 healthcare office regions, 42 youth care regions, 25 health care regions and so on. They're all different regions. So my question to the Minister is: shouldn't he be directing himself? And if he means that the region must fix it, what is the region and how does he deal with democratic legitimacy?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u10	Two legitimate questions, I think. The first point is about direction. I think it would be most useful to describe it on the basis of a specific issue, in this case neighbourhood care. We've talked about that before. At present, this district care sector is fragmented and has many backgrounds, such as a much too low entry threshold. The phenomenon of uncontracted care is also one of them. Another background is that it's quite every man for himself. You can start quite easily as a provider but then you also have several health insurance companies who have bought together in competition to date. Some providers have contracts with one of the health insurance companies, some with two, some with all of them. The other way around, of course, a health insurance company also has contracts with a series of providers, for example in a neighbourhood. That really leads to a lack of direction at the moment. The question you have to ask, if you just look at how we have set up the healthcare system at the moment, is who actually has that direction to take. I believe that we have had intensive debates on this, and we have also come to the conclusion that it is not going to work itself out. So that means you have to make an appointment about that. If we then look at how we have given ourselves the tools to reach that kind of agreement, then that is all along the line of administrative agreements. So enforcement is indeed very difficult. To address this fragmentation in the region is simply not organised in the system at the moment. That's what I mean by a lack of direction. Then all we're talking about is neighborhood nursing. But that neighborhood nursing isn't in splendid isolation going on in such a neighborhood. It must work with the general practitioner, with the transfer nurse from the hospital and also with many other parties. They are all working on their own again to create that contact and all those elephant paths with all those providers in that neighborhood. In short, is there any direction in how that works with each other? The answer is no. That leads to the answers, for example to a question like Mr Van der Staaij who reminded us yesterday. He asked the question: how can it be that, in a particular case, there was no place to organize community care? To which the answer was: there is a duty of care for the health insurance provider, so if that duty of care is not fulfilled, then it is up to that health insurance provider to resolve it. As this scarcity increases, you will increasingly see that this individual duty of care is becoming more and more difficult to fulfil. Then my system question is, who are you speaking to? Do I then appeal to an individual health insurance provider to fail to fulfil his duty of care? If the human issues and the fragmentation of supply are the background to not being able to fulfil this duty of care, then who is the move? You say, "Take the lead, Minister." That's what we're doing. I have done so by making the administrative arrangements in the area of nursing, for example around evening, night and weekend shifts. We will do this with the Wtza by better regulating accession, tackling uncontracted care; all that sort of thing. But I also say that if we want to be able to direct the region to the future, we will have to do more, and then we will have to provide ourselves with more instruments than we have so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u11	I asked another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u12	Yes. In doing so, you gave the answer yourself, namely by making pictures of all kinds of different regional classifications. When I was alderman, I sometimes thought: at VWS, at the Ministry, every DG column really has its own regional classification. But now that I work there, I know that it is not every DG column and not every board or department, but that almost every subsidy scheme works with its own regional classification. That is exactly what is not going well either, because if you do not congruentise the regional breakdowns, at least congruent to the external borders, then it is very difficult to work together in such a region. And so we're going to have to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u13	Mr President, the counter is on; this is my second question. When you look at all these pictures, you're scared how little congruent they are. For center municipalities, social care or women's care there is another regional classification. Yet, if the Minister says: 'who has the direction' and 'we have to come up with instruments', does the Minister say: 'I really need to be able to take more direction'? And does he also say, "there has to be more congruence when it comes to the different regions"? Because then we have two clear answers. We need to give the minister more direction, and we need to take care of that. And there needs to be more congruence in the regional charts. We can still argue whether we agree that it is now all up to the region, but at least we have two clear answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u14	It's getting pretty close. It is not just about the Ministry or the Minister having more direction, but that he could take more direction when it is necessary. That's one thing. So that indeed means expanding the instruments to be able to conduct that direction. But much more important than that is the fact that we know how to find each other in the region, that we also know how to find cooperation, that someone there also feels responsible for answering these complex questions across areas. Are we going to be able to give care, to enforce that palette of care in a good way? For example, working together as one team in the district, just to take the example of the neighbourhood care, can actually be achieved. If that doesn't happen, then who's on call? First of all, this is about directing the region. Indeed, as a derivative of that, there is also the possibility to address someone in the region from here when that does not happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u15	I would like to come back to the deficits in the first-line rooms and geriatric rehabilitation care. The Minister wants to go to an extensive analysis in the regional picture, but we already know that these deficits are there and that the health insurance companies also have an important role to play here. Why wait for an analysis again? As far as I am concerned, you can always do that analysis, but is it not just much more important to just roll up the sleeves and get on with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u16	What are you suggesting?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u17	That you take the direction, so that there are many more places at first-line quarters and geriatric rehabilitation care, which makes those hospital beds, where people do not belong, empty.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u18	Let me tell you what we're doing at that point. The first thing we have done is to coordinate the first-line residence in all regions. But there you see, and that is a typical example of the conversation I just had with Mrs Bergkamp, that it should actually be well arranged across the domains. Mrs Ellemeet and Mrs Bergkamp have spoken to me about this before. Because you need to know what kind of temporary stay it is and what kind of law that should be funded. That's not always first-line residence from the Zvw. It may also be a crisis bed from the Wlz. It may also be geriatric rehabilitation care. It may also be respite care from the Wmo. Well, look at this. Who then has the direction to take on the whole of "is the offer sufficiently accurate?" That only works if you work together on that. A wonderful example at that point is in Salland, where a transfer point has been set up where all forms of temporary stay are behind one telephone number. The profit is that a general practitioner who was normally calling a whole Friday afternoon to find a good place has now lost ten minutes. Then that one point of coordination takes over. Also the agreement has been made that everyone just keeps beds for when needed. That's how they solved it there. I would say that you are going to say that we must ensure that we are simply going to do that example from Deventer throughout the country. I'm for that, but how do we do that? Right now, just along the line of administrative agreements. So the administrative agreement has been: we are going to do that; we are going to get there; we are going to broaden the coordination points across all areas of care. That's what we're working on. Health insurers have put their shoulders on that. Municipalities put their shoulders under that too. So we're on it. We're not there yet, but we're doing it. The second thing that is going on here is structural funding. I have also had this debate with Mrs Ellemeet before. It's about budgeting, where it's not entirely patient-related from the Wlz. The legality requires that money is actually spent on a client with an indication. This is budget you need, but it's actually not patient-related. We must also make this possible in a structural way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u19	So as market master, you can spread that example from Deventer widely across the country. It is a good thing that coordination is in place, but, of course, there has to be something to coordinate. Those places should just be there. We are concerned not only about the indications within the domains, but also, above all, about the people who fall between the domains, who therefore have no direct indication and where it is still uncertain where it is going. There are also major problems. These are often the people who occupy the hospital beds for far too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u20	I don't know if they're there necessarily. It is true that sometimes you do not know in advance what type of bed someone should be on, because the indication is not yet set or because someone is not stable enough for an indication. That is why it is important that all institutions keep a place open and that this is agreed with the purchasing parties. It is also important to work on "white label" beds, as one sometimes calls them, so that there is a bed free without a stamp on it that it is a Wlz bed, a Zvw bed or whatever. That's important, too. That's right. Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u21	In recent years, actually last year, the Minister has repeatedly stressed the need for less market forces and more cooperation. Next year there will be a plan for how we will improve this cooperation, but I can no longer hear him talk about how we are going to reduce market forces, profits, production in healthcare. What proposals will be included next year in this plan to reverse the market forces? That is, of course, the biggest obstacle in the care process when it comes to cooperation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u22	That's one of the struggles sometimes. I have sent you an extensive letter on the threshold of this summer holiday. Everyone will say it: care is not a free market. It's always about private players who have to do their jobs within public guarantees. At the same time, thinking in market terms, thinking in competition, is indeed at stake in our healthcare system. I have mentioned a number of examples where I think that has gone through. A healthy competition where you want to be better than yesterday and want to get a little better than the other one around, isn't all that bad. It'll make you feel better. But if it degenerates into competition at the expense of each other and at the expense of cooperation with each other, then it affects people. That's just what you see, for example in community nursing. That's what I've been calling market thinking. If you're gonna try to get the night, night and weekend shifts in competition, you're really stupid at a time of staff cut. So we're gonna have to get rid of that. Luckily, we were able to make that deal. As of January 1st, we'll be done with it. Evening, night and weekend shifts are just organized in one team for a region. Well, it's lovely, but it's one example. Limiting new accessions, linking high thresholds to new accessions, is another example. I refer to the reduction of profits in the extra-mural care or the fight against contracting in the municipal domain. I would just like to say that we have been working on a number of measures for a long time. If we see that the market trend has slipped through and has negative effects, we need to correct it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u23	Unfortunately, this is not an answer to my question. I asked what will be written in next year's plan on combating, stopping, market forces in healthcare. I don't want to hear what's happening on a small scale. I hear the Minister on regions, on more direction, but I do not hear him on how to tackle profits. I can't hear him talking about the role that health insurance companies have right now. They're far too powerful for the caregivers. Look what's going on in physical therapy. I do not hear the Minister talking about the policy jungle, which is driving people crazy by all these different health insurance companies and all these different policies. I would like to hear from the Minister that the plan he is going to present next year pays great attention to countering all forms of market forces in healthcare. I would like to hear a clear yes to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u24	I think I am going to make Mr Hijink partly happy, and that is conscious. There are incentives that have undesirable effects, e.g. productive incentives in funding. You have to want to take it away, and that is what we are doing, for example, with the new funding model for community care. Another example. We've been at it a long time, I'm just saying. There are other incentives that are negative for people and for the organization of care. Of course we're gonna take it away. Which ones are they? Let us do the order right: first a good analysis together with people from the field, then a debate in the Chamber, then a contour note and another debate about it. So we will have that debate at great length. All this leads to changes in the system. The design of a whole new system, in which we, for example, à la national care fund, are you not wearing your pin; is that a conversion? Getting everything settled from the national government will result in a huge waste of time in transition costs, time we don't have, and incredibly much loss of money, which I would really much prefer to take care of. So I think that's really very unwise. Where incentives put people in trouble, we will, of course, solve them. A whole new system in which, without health insurers, we go all the way nationalised, as the SP wants, seems very unwise to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u25	I am glad to hear from the Minister that he wants clarity in the regions. Mrs Diertens and I also argued for this in the Ggz debate last December, so that is only joy on our part. The Minister also states that he wants to give more room for what I call 'legislative consultation'. I've just heard the Minister mention that only from the Wlz. I hope he does the same under the Health Insurance Act, too, to prevent the "not invented by me" syndrome. In other words: we developed something beautiful in Salland and why can't it be rolled out nationwide? Thank you for that, but I would like to know from the Minister whether he is going to give that space to the Health Insurance Act and whether he is going to take the lead there, because I can only hear him mention examples from the Wlz.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u26	The neighborhood care is financed from the Zvw, so I have just mentioned examples from the Zvw. But I think it should also apply to the WlZ. A few answers. I've just made it difficult for you to have three systems working side by side in every region. That's what's complicated. They have different steering paradigms, different incentives and different regional classifications. They're dispongruent at just about everything. We need to solve this, and you can only do it regionally, so over the systems. Of course we're gonna hang out in there together. It's also quite a complicated puzzle. That's why we really need to take a moment to come up with a good story. That is certainly our intention. The examples you give from the ggz are indeed good. That is why municipalities and health insurance companies have also said that they will have to engage in this kind of cooperation, including the ggz. The regional classification chosen by the health insurance companies is that of the health offices. In doing so, the health insurers, the municipalities and the health offices at the level of the health office regions, which 31, actually seek cooperation with each other. For the time being, this seems to be the most logical way of looking for this cooperation, where it is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u27	Let me get this straight. Therefore, the classification of the health offices becomes the unique regional classification for everything. The minister's gonna be in charge. There was just the example of community care, where there is a great deal of fragmentation. We also see, of course, the problem of acute care under the Health Insurance Act. That is not so much a fragmentation, but simply a disappearance. So I would like to know from the Minister whether he says: this is the clear regional classification for everything and I am also going to direct where things disappear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u28	Now you are actually having the debate that we will probably have next summer. Which region classification you should choose exactly for what, is really part of the search. Let's not be too easy about that either. If it were all very easy, we would have solved it a long time ago or it would never have arisen this way. I have indicated that the VNG and healthcare insurers have now said the Netherlands: let us work together at the level of those health office regions. That's 31. That makes perfect sense. During the coming year you may discover that it has to be a little bit different, just a little bit to the left or a little bit to the right. It's possible. This is what we are now choosing, this care office region, which I understand and I think is logical, but perhaps there is still a number of changes to be made. That's one. Then two. You mention the example of acute care. In my view, Mr Bruins will come forward with a vision of the future of acute care in the spring. That's a good idea, right? Yeah, exactly. In fact, I think he's about to answer that. There is, of course, something in acute care, but also not only there. This is also happening in other parts of the healthcare system, although it is regionally different. What's going on is that if you're not careful, parts of the care could disappear. That is also a reason to do this exercise with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u29	In conclusion, we must wait until the summer before we know which region we are going to use. That, while, of course, I have also argued that there are simply groups that cannot wait for a vision for the coming years. I am thinking in particular of the vulnerable elderly. The minister says: we have agreements between healthcare insurers Netherlands and the municipalities and they are also about vulnerable elderly people. But my question is what the Minister's role is in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u30	Yes. First of all, nothing has to wait. Absolutely nothing of what needs to be done now, has to wait until a contour note is finished. I mention the assignment to live and take care of, which I will go into in a moment. I'll mention everything that needs to be done at nursing home care. Nothing needs to wait for any note. We just need to get to work, roll up the sleeves and get to work. We have only seen that a number of complexities are so intertwined with how we organized the system that we will have to adapt that system in a number of ways. We're not gonna do that out of the hip for a little hink-step-jump, but we're gonna think about that. And yes, that takes a little time. But you are talking about intensifying cooperation on vulnerable elderly people. Of course, we're not gonna wait for that. In fact, we'd already started that. First, it's important that we want to get into one team, you could say: one team around older people. That team includes both social and medical professionals. Therefore, the framework conditions must be in order, such as time, organisation, data exchange, funding. We're encouraging that movement, too. There is an incentive arrangement at ZonMw, one of the measures from the Langer Home programme. This is to facilitate networks around the elderly and around the elderly living at home. It has already reached 200,000 elderly people, and 35 networks have already been established in this way. I believe that 25 networks will be added in the coming year. So that's what we're gonna do. This is just one example of how these networks are already being shaped and created. Another measure is, of course, to shape the neighbourhood care as a single team. I just mentioned that. So it's just that these steps are actually being taken in the neighborhood. And getting into the neighborhood are things that older people first notice. There's nothing to wait for. Two. That's not all. We also need the VNG, the municipalities and the health insurance companies to find each other better at all and to come up with a cooperation agenda at all for those priority issues, in the areas of prevention, ggz and older people. This cooperation agenda is now being created everywhere in every region. In short, we are in full swing, precisely in order to give shape to this intensification even now. Because that's what we can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u31	The Minister rightly said earlier: we have a very complicated system and the only way we can now organise this cooperation is through administrative agreements; you can't force anything. I think that's a fact. Now I have the next question, specifically about the vulnerable elderly. There is an agreement between the municipalities and the health insurance companies. What is the role of the Minister in this? Can he promise me that he will play an active role in following those appointments? Where are they gonna lead? Do we see the desired results? And if he doesn't, can he promise me that something will be done about it? The Minister, of course, has concluded the main agreements. In that you can see that we are thinking and working all the way back into those columns, while those vulnerable elderly go through those columns. So I think we need an agreement, an agreement at a time like this, for those vulnerable elderly people through those columns, an agreement in which the minister also has an active role to play.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u32	And I think that agreement is actually already there, namely in the form of cooperation agreements between health insurers and municipalities, which I am, of course, very much involved in. I am very much involved in its creation and so on. It is not a dictation, but it is also something health insurers and municipalities themselves want. It's administrative agreements that have been made. I believe that this cooperation agenda is exactly what Mrs Ellemeet wants. That agenda is not just at the level of the Empire. It has also been agreed: if there are things that we cannot resolve in the region, they must be put on an administrative table at the level of the Empire, in which I am also present. That's one. But especially in the region, in each region, cooperation agreements are made between insurers and municipalities. That is what we do at the level of the health office regions. These agreements are aimed at vulnerable elderly people; care for the elderly is one of three issues. In short, I think we actually already have the administrative part of that. I believe that something else is needed, namely action, follow action well, sit on top of it and show good examples to each other. I'm very actively involved in that, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u33	How is the Chamber taken into account?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u34	I myself have an impact in the first quarter of 2020. I will inform your Chamber as soon as possible. Perhaps it is a good idea that, in the spring, if we outline the state of mind surrounding that outline note, we will ensure that the state of mind in these regional images and the state of mind in that regional cooperation agenda of ZN and VNG is with your Chamber, so that you can have a well-founded debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u35	I have a question about the future picture and about the current handling of the bottlenecks. I shall first mention the future point, because we are now talking about interruptions. I understand the development of healthcare agencies regions. On the other hand, it is quite abstract, even for vulnerable elderly people at home, if you say: your problems are solved in the healthcare office region or in another region. Will the Minister state clearly what opportunities there are not for tomorrow but in the long term for the municipalities, as a layer of government close to the citizens, to play an important role in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u36	I very much agree with Mr Van der Staaij. A task which has now been invested in one is indeed being invested with another, as was the case with decentralisation in 2015. Moreover, in December, for example, the Forest Committee delivered an opinion on how we would like to regulate care for the elderly in the future, precisely because of this pressure. That was Mrs Bergkamp's motion. One of the analyses that will emerge is that we have actually regulated care for vulnerable elderly people at home in three laws. That analysis is not the hardest part of the question, because then you get the question: if you don't want that anymore, if you only want two or one responsible party, then who is it? If you're gonna do that chair dance, who are you gonna pull that chair away from? That's the tough question that comes up. I am not in favour of regionalising all responsibilities at all. In that case, you will indeed find the democratic legitimacy that Mrs Bergkamp also sketches. So what you can do close to home, you just have to do close to home. Only, you can't organize a number of things close to home, just because of the scale or discord between those systems. So sure, the municipalities certainly have a role to play. I think we should open up that route at all. This analysis must be based on the existing bottlenecks. If that requires an adjustment in the system, then we must do so. But if that doesn't require adjustment in the system, please don't. In any case, no individual case of the present, or bottleneck of the present, or individual case of the present that hits between napkin and tablecloth, should have to wait for that. We just need to get to work on that right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u37	Good to hear. Let's get to the bottlenecks now. In the meantime, we are also dealing with the examples I mentioned yesterday in the debate, which the Minister also responded to in the question-answer. Then it's said, "No, I'm sorry, sir or ma'am, I can't do it right now. We don't have enough staff." I just got another e-mail from someone who asked, "How about that? My mom's 92. She went to the hospital and wants to go back to her apartment, but she is told by the home care institution that it will stop if they haven't cared for six weeks." Those are all holes that fall. I understand the system, but I think it doesn't work enough to say to those people, "Well, you should call the health insurance company, because it has a duty of care." It's like it's gonna be really hard out there. How do people get in there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u38	It's always good to make sure exactly what kind of bottleneck is going on, because then I can also specify more precisely how you could solve it. In the meantime, we have set up quite a lot to solve bottlenecks, not just in the grievances sense. There is also a lot there, but that is more of a judicialisation. Often, people don't want to complain so much as just solve it. Of course, there is a lot for that, also nationally. We've got The Right Loket set up, which anyone can approach any day. For example, we do this together with Each (in). If you don't get through or don't find the right window, you can always go to The Right Loket. It's just called The Right Loket; that's what we found striking. I'm used to occasionally mentioning my address when people ask: where can I go with problems? On VWS, we have set up complex care questions for complex cases that cannot be solved by anyone. Well, that always works out, actually. We have people sitting in front of it, so if your mailbox contains a number of mails from people who say they don't come out, then I would really like to say: send them on, because I'm very happy to get on with it. I already did that as an alderman and fortunately a lot of aldermen do that, so this also applies to municipalities. Municipalities themselves are also open to that type of casuism. For example, when it comes to a mediation question for a nursing home, the care office simply has a mediation task. The health insurance provider also has a mediation role. Why? Because they have a duty of care. In short, I think there is actually a lot of furnishings. What I do agree with Mr Van der Staaij is that people do not always know that. That is why we must make sure that we help the people who ask this type of question in every place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u39	It's getting a little clearer. We are going to have the debate in the future, but at least the Minister says that he is going to tackle the cohesion between the regions and that perhaps there should be one regional model as a starting point for the care, for the ambulance, for the shelter and for all of it. The Minister also points out that there is very little I can do now; I need more powers to take decisions in the region as well. What is a bit of my problem here is democratic legitimacy. This also applies to administrative arrangements and later to the region. Developments and reforms in care were aimed at organising care closely. For example, we talked about the tools. If people don't come out, then it has to be clear where they can report their problem. If you're gonna raise everything up again... The Minister indirectly thinks that we have too many small municipalities, that they can't do it and that they should work together. But then I wonder how to prevent citizens from being treated and then towards health offices, health insurance companies and regions... A region is nothing for the citizen. I'm glad the health care offices are now going to call a little more people on a waiting list. I read in the letter: very good, they call more and more. Yeah, but it is when it's often too late and people already have a place. So where does the minister's faith in the region come from? And how is he going to prevent democratic legitimacy from being there and the citizen from getting lost in the system?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u40	First of all, your very brief summary of my view on this point, namely: the Minister wants more powers. No, what I want is for us to improve the accountability in the system. This means that there must be someone at a time when a problem falls between ship and ship because there are three systems operating side by side in each region. So I want to increase the accessibility, first in the region. But I do want to be able to address the regions where it is not in order. That's right. You can do that now. Informally, in administrative agreements and so on, you can do anything, but I think we need to look very closely at the instruments and how they relate to each other. That's one. Secondly, what you say about the municipalities is certainly not my view. I think that the municipalities, as the nearest government, play a very important role. That is indeed why we have opted for decentralisation. I have now had the question of every group, including those who have voted passionately for decentralisation. Surely the Minister is responsible for the system? The word "system responsible" is used too often. That's what it's supposed to mean: just fix it with those municipalities. How does that relate to democratic legitimacy? Just as fictional: suppose it's about the youth ggz and you'd want to operate in it from the Empire. I would like to do that, and I am going to do that; I will come to that. What if you wanted to do that? How do you force that? And how does that relate to democratic legitimacy? Can you at the end of the day, if you have anorexia and you can't find a spot, say: that democratic identity will be of no use to me, but I just want a place? I think we should look at it the same way. So when it comes to citizens, citizens have the most contactability and that it is regulated; ensuring that someone is able to handle it. That is the perspective of citizens. From the point of view of administrative relations, we need to set the checks-and-balances right. If you look at the decentralisation, especially on the youth care side, we have a number of new checks-and-balances to make sure things are going well. They are indeed at regional level. This indeed has to do with the scale of the municipality.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u41	Just a moment about the shortages in the first-line rooms and geriatric rehabilitation care. We agree that there are gaps and that there are too many stamps and boxes on those beds. Is it true that health insurance companies cut those grz and elv institutions when those institutions refer too many people to the nursing home? For the health insurance companies then say that it was intended that those people would recover and then go home. But if the institutions prove too often that these people still have to go to a nursing home, they will be cut short. Is that right, is that allowed, and do you think it is desirable?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u42	This doesn't ring a bell. Then you should set the concrete example in my direction. Then I can respond to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u43	The concrete example comes from an article in the Volkskrant of 26 October 2019. It describes a case...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u44	I'm trying to memorize all the People's Newspapers, but I can't remember this one for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u45	Mr President, I would like to show the Minister the article on my tablet, if that is all right with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u46	What the hell? Mrs. Sazias is also the newspaper deliverer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u47	Yeah, I certainly know this story, also because there were some things in it that couldn't be right because it's different. But when I read that story, I did think: this really is such an example of how it can sometimes not work in the region and how things that are there, namely the care mediation task of the healthcare office, are apparently not being used enough to get it done. This can lead to enormous frustrations among professionals, who are just lugging around with a client or in this case a patient under the arm and simply cannot go to the place where that should be. That's really not good. So I've agreed with them that we'll make sure we evaluate this story in a few weeks. Why did it go wrong? Who didn't do what he was supposed to do? What part of that is really system-related? But what part of it could you have solved just fine now? That evaluation is therefore being carried out, and I would imagine that I would allow the Chamber to carry out the evaluation of that case. Then I would like to take into account Mrs Sazias' precise question about these funding incentives.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u48	So you can't tell whether it's true or not that health insurers cut short on primary care and geriatric care when too much is being referred to the nursing home?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u49	It doesn't mean anything to me, but I think it would be a good idea to look at this matter from all sides, to beg and grope and then to draw a good conclusion. That's what I'm gonna do, and I'll get back to you on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u50	Let's see the Run-Your-Rut stand. We have three rulers. This is ruler one. He said he's got eight cubes, and we're somewhere in the first block now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u51	That is absolutely true, and that is a delight of an incentive to continue fluks. That is what I am doing with a question from Mrs Agema. For the order of the block: I said what we are going to do in that process on the way to that contour note and what we have in mind. I have also said that I would like to put forward a number of proposals in this block that you yourself have made, and they touch on that great task of organizability. One of these was Mrs Ellemeet's question as to whether we can speed up a little on the vulnerable elderly. I think I just responded to that. Another very interesting question, I found, was Mrs Agema's about giving a bonus to people who are going to work full-time. To sum up, 1.2 million people work in health care, but the average working time factor is 0.6. I can fully follow the sum Mrs Agema makes. Imagine if there were a few more full-timers in there, so you'd raise the average working time factor. Wouldn't that just be great? The answer is, of course, yes. In fact, if you did, and you did manage to raise it by one tenth, from 0.6 to 0.7, then I guess we don't have any vacancies for the time being, macro. So I think that is a very interesting proposal. The request was to work with it towards employers in health care. What I don't know is whether or not a bonus is already being given. At least there are no examples known to me when people actually start working full-time. I haven't heard of that. I understand that the Radboudumc was what we were able to bring out in the quickness, in a day, to stimulate the surgical assistants and the anesthesia workers with a bonus to work more hours. Of course, that would be fantastic. From 0.6 to 0.8 is also a nice step forward. It is also the case that the negotiated agreement on collective agreements, the care of the elderly, has made the agreement to offer people who often work overtime or often work more hours than they have contractual contracts, a larger contract anyway. That's also a nice step, but of course it doesn't get any extra plus. There are moves that way, but I would like to get to work on this proposal. I must, of course, make the point that these are agreements that are made in a collective agreement. That collective agreement's just dry. The negotiator's agreement has just dried up. I don't know if people are immediately eager for an addendum. That is without prejudice to the fact that I think it's just a very interesting thought. If you can make parttimers work full-time, or at least with a bigger contract, that's great, so I'd love to get on with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u52	It's nice to finally get a little concrete. When I looked at Buitenhof last Sunday and saw the minister there talking about organisability, I had to look twice and then I didn't really know what he would want, other than a system change. But I'll come back to that later. Let's get to this point first. I've been looking up a little background information. A quarter of a million people in care now work full-time, the rest of them don't. My question to the Minister is whether he can at least map and examine what such a full-time bonus would cost and what it would yield. My proposal is to give everyone who works full-time a bonus of 5% per quarter. That could be a pretty substantial amount of money. There's a price on that. I am not able to calculate that price tag, so at least I am very curious about that. In addition, I think that the Minister, saying that the collective agreements are just dry, could, of course, also conclude a broad agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u53	When it comes to working conditions, I do think that this is a good use and I think that it also works well that it is a sensible idea to make agreements in collective agreements, and to make agreements between employers and employees. That's one thing. Two is: it's just a good idea. It is a good idea to use that idea under my arm with employees and especially employers to talk about whether that would be something. In my view, the way in which that takes shape is to be debated. That may be in all kinds of variants, but it's about a financial incentive to make sure people get a bigger contract and get it, if they want it, of course. Some people consciously choose to have a part-time contract; most of them, by the way. But I'd like to get on with it. Don't pin me on the concrete design of it; that seems complicated to me. I'm just gonna talk to employers about that. I would think first of all about ActiZ and Zorgthuisnl, because in the care of the elderly the job is the highest. I think the example of the Radboud is an example to include and showcase. If it could work in other sectors, why not? If you give me the opportunity to talk to employers about a possible design, I can promise to come back to you once I have had that conversation. Then I know what employers are opposed to, what design is being thought of, etc.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u54	I'm asking you to go deeper on this. What would it cost? What would it cost? No one under duress, of course. As a Member of Parliament, I am not in a position to do so. We have two grandiose employees capable of a great deal, but we are not capable of making that kind of macro sums. I had made more proposals, four in total. Another proposal was about the overhead in long-term care. It's risen from 13% to 16%. The best performing institutions have an overhead of 5% to 7%. I've been running with the proposal for a while. I've done that a few times already. I haven't actually heard the Minister about that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u55	So that's what I'm gonna do and I'm gonna get back to you. I'm afraid I won't be able to make time with that for a while. I mean, we're still at the very beginning and we have to work with employers. I think I can reconnect this in the first quarter of 2020. I understand that, apart from the feedback on employers' design, you also want some grip on the numbers in terms of design, including what the different variants would cost. Indeed, we have a little more staff than the PVV Group and we are very happy to help Members of Parliament's ideas a step further. Yesterday it was said that the other letter, you know, was probably not written by the biggest fans of the PVV within the VWS ministry. But the employees in the VWS Department do all things without respect for the person. They like to think ideas, so I like to get on with it. Two: the overhead. I think I have understood your question differently, in the sense that it is not so much about a reduction bonus but about an overhead standard: why are we paying everything on averages? Why shouldn't we make the best examples lead? At least that's how I look at it myself, and that's what I think is important. The task of the government agreement is to make the best performing institution the norm. This is easier written down than executed, but then we instructed the NZa to come up with an integral comparison of all that type of benchmarking data. On the basis of that integral comparison, you can then see how you could create a financing model where you actually arrive at a standard and build a funding incentive into the purchase. So, with an institution that has a 15% overhead bill for this calculation, you agree that you want to pay it this year, but that you're not going to pay 15% next year: "We're going to make steps on the way to your neighbor, who has less than 10% overhead, and in this year we're going to agree on what you can learn from that neighbor to adapt your organization in that way." That's what I'm looking for. I would like to shape that: the best performing institution as a standard, but then translated into purchasing. So, in what way can you send them through purchasing?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u56	We are now discussing the budget for 2020. An overhead standard was already in the government and tolerated agreement of 2010, but never came, because its feasibility is so complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u57	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u58	Of course, I have been able to think a little longer about this point and figure things out. The predecessor of this minister, Mr Van Rijn, has already confirmed that a reduction of 13% to 7% already produces 30,000 people who can continue to carry out an executive task on a salary basis. If it's gone up to 16%, it's going to be 50,000 people. Saves a huge sip on a drink. So it was always very difficult to implement. That's why I came up with that workplace bonus: a positive bonus for everyone who gets 7%, so they can do something fun for and with the people. That's where it comes from: to do something about that feasibility. Anyway, I think we've discussed this point sufficiently. I welcome the commitment that the Minister is going to do more about this, but there was a third proposal, because that organisationalism is the big problem that we have to deal with. The third proposal was to combine care-gravity funding in nursing homes. I have already told the Minister that I am very sorry how that was rejected. We read in that letter that one third of these indications are re-indications. I don't think the Minister can afford not to pick all the fruit. I think he should do that, one rate, because we all know that anyone who is currently registering on the sidewalk of the nursing home is a very heavy patient.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u59	I have responded extensively to that. I have also explained it to you in detail. The last time we discussed that, you said that a lot of re-indications were being made. That's when I said that's not usually the case. People are already coming in with a pretty solid indication. Some of them are only re-indicated. In addition, they never go past all the steps of thezzp's, but often at once from one zzp to another zzp. So it is not true that there is an enormous bureaucratic burden behind it. That's one. Two: what difference would that make to bureaucratic burden? That is, in fact, the re-indication that needs to be done. The re-indication is done by the CIZ. With the CIZ I am going through a very different path, namely to make the whole indication much shorter. It goes from a week or six to a week. So the whole indication process is going to accelerate enormously. That helps great, also against bureaucratic burdens. The third point is quite fundamental. The institutions are now often financed by a mix of differentzzp's. On the basis of this mix, the company's operations were set up. If you go from an institution that has a lot of lowzzp's, for example, to an average zzp, then that setting is very refreshing. It simply receives more money than it needs, given the number of clients it has. The other way around, if you go from an institution that has very heavyzzp's in particular to an average rate, it will probably go so financially backwards that it either doesn't make it anymore, or has to select very badly at the gate. These are all undesirable developments. In short, I think thatzzp-system is actually quite a well-designed model. I do not think we should change that very much, because it has very undesirable consequences.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u60	This reasoning is totally flawed. The Minister's letter states that only 66% of people are indicated once. This means that 33% is indicated more often. So a lot of additional indications are being given. The Minister's second argument about the client mix is also flawed. You can make a transitional arrangement for those houses that now have an average higher mix. That run on heavier cases is actually very misplaced, because the average nursing home resident is very heavy. Anyone who shows up at a nursing home should be able to get a place. And someone shouldn't get a place, because there just happens to be an attitude around the corner that just wants to have zzp 7 and not zzp 5. 'Cause thatzzp 5 is really heavy, too. These are three reasons why the Minister's reasoning and letter is flawed in this respect. I call once again on the Minister to pick all the fruit and do exactly this sort of thing. He has a very big mouth about rules in care and administrative burdens, but you have to want to get rid of those third re-indications, and that can be done by applying a single rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u61	We are not going to agree on this point, because I disagree with any argument put forward by Mrs Agema. I have described this in great detail in the letter. You say that the administrative burden is very high. I'm saying it's relatively limited. Last time, you said that all clients are experiencing multiple re-indications, and it turns out they aren't. We did a very good job of finding out. That's one. Two. You say there is no impact at all at the time you would come to an averagezzp. I say it has a very big impact, because all the institutions will change their client mix, all of them. That's what it takes to get you into financial trouble at all. That's a huge impact. Three. What really matters is to reduce the administrative burden. You do this much easier by choosing a different method of indication at the CIZ or by reducing, of course, the administrative burden that individual employees face at each location. That is far more important than the profit that would be to book at one rate in allzzp's. So, apart from the fact that I don't think that's wise because of the impact, it's also not the most sensible measure you can take because of the revenue from administrative burdens. You can do a lot more interesting things than this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u62	Finally, on this point, don't mention it if 33% of the indications are a re-indication. That's all untapped work. I don't think nursing homes should be involved in cherrypicking the even heavier patient among all the heavy patients. If that's the case now, they can have a transitional arrangement. But once again, the Minister must want to reap all the fruit and not just talk nicely, because the administrative burden has risen again, now to 35% in long-term care and this is one of the great annoyances.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u63	No, cherrypicking would get you if you applied one average rate. That's exactly why we came up with a very sophisticated zzp model. It's very wise to keep that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u64	Mrs. Agema mentioned the part-time factor. I have a question on this, which I have also put in my contribution. For nine years, that part-time factor has remained the same. That is strange, because research shows that people working within the vvt sector want and can work more. That's very weird. At every AO on the labour market, I repeat this. I'm just asking the Minister to talk to ActiZ and other organizations to get an answer to the question as to why this is happening. There is a shortage, everyone is panicking about it and there is a very large group of people who want to work more, but cannot get started because of all kinds of rota issues and so on. We need that capacity so badly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u65	That's right. That's why we're working on it. This is just a point we have already discussed with ActiZ. In the regions, we are also trying to pay attention to this. You always get a very variable image back. Many employers say that we have long made an offer to those who want to work more with us. But if you examine it, I believe the number was 24%. If they got a bigger contract, they'd take it. But three quarters either; it seems to be working part-time on this contract. Anyway, a quarter could be a huge profit. And even if it's just an extra few hours a week, it's still a huge profit. So I totally agree with you and we're working on it, too. Today I have received an additional proposal from Mrs Agema. I will let you know where it is in those talks and what concrete movement we see at that point. In the end, you should be able and want to see that working time factor go up. I couldn't agree more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u66	This is some kind of rerun. It is very nice that the Minister is talking, I believe, but we do not yet see it in the results. To be honest, I find that very serious. You have a very nice campaign. We try with all kinds of regional plans, but there is capacity that is simply not activated by the employers. I hope, quite frankly, that the Minister, I almost want to say, wants to take a little more direction, but at least that he wants to make the directors and ActiZ aware of this. They too see the problems, but they do not see it rising. That's my question. Then, in addition to what Mrs. Agema said. We're off the hook, but Mrs Agema has also pointed out a number of issues. My problem is not so much in the different re-indications. It is clear, as I mentioned earlier, that my problem is that people with zzp 4 often no longer have the opportunity to go to a nursing home. We do see different rates. I can't touch that, because it's the NZa who determined it. But we can see that we are still looking at the heaviness of the care-gravity package. That's what I'm worried about. In reply to my questions, the Minister says that he is going to investigate this and look at the waiting lists again. But I find it very serious when I get a lot of signals from people that they can't stay in a nursing home withzzp 4.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u67	Now things are gonna get mixed up. The first point is that I agree with that and I am also working on it. I did not hear you make a concrete proposal on top of it. I am working on this right now, and I will let you know what is going on in the progress report Working in healthcare. The second point: thezzp's. After this I have a block of nursing home care, in which this is discussed. This is about the waiting lists, the extent to which they occur in the different zzp's and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u68	Yes. Then we'll go to Mr. Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u69	Then I'm going to continue working part-time and full-time in health care. We have discussed this before, including in connection with the labour market plan that was presented. In a state it was said that when people start working so many more hours, so many jobs. That helps to reduce the deficit. In the discussion we had afterwards, that turned out not to be a real intention of the cabinet, but a calculation exercise. There were more examples: like this, that will be the effect. It is a good thing that the Minister is working on this, partly in response to Mrs Agema's questions. Cao parties realize this, of course. They don't make collective agreements about it. At least that's what we can find out. Would the Minister be prepared to release extra money for it if the further investigation showed that this could really tick and help reduce the shortage of care?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u70	Look, there we are again at a discussion we've had several times. We make a lot of extra money every year. Every year we free up substantial extra money to keep wage developments in care going in such a way that wage developments do not lag behind other sectors. That's a really nice appointment, the oval appointment. You're from that job, so you know about it. Other sectors are also always very jealous that we have made these agreements in the care sector. So we certainly need to maintain it. If you look at wage developments from 2000 to the present, you can see that they are on average 2.1% a year in the care sector and that they are on average 2% a year in all sectors added together over the years. In short, just a little bit better than the rest. If I look at the collective agreements as they are now being established, I see a good wage development. How is that possible? Just because of the oval drugs that we made available again this year. 1.7 billion of the plus this year was about wages. Also next year, gross modo is half again for wages. In short, we have extra money every year. In it, collective bargaining partners have to make the arrangements. I have said that the ink of the vvt-cao is just dry, and so is the ggz, and even the ink of the disabled care system has now passed through the grassroots. All wonderful pluses in percentages, by the way, that may also be said. To say that we still have a nice idea within the agreements on working conditions and you know what, we do that outside the collective agreement, that seems a strange idea to me and I am not going to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u71	Thank you for the answers. We have had this debate many times. There is a new collective agreement for the vvt. It is also the case that people in nursing and nursing homes and home care have to wait 20 months for a new wage increase. And in those 20 months, prices have risen by 4%, so there is still something to say about wage developments in care. I am not focusing specifically on the element of the full-time bonus for nothing, but because research shows that it can help to reduce those enormous staff shortages. Let's face it, the labour market plan is not yet a success. There are more people running away than in the past. Cao parties have devoted the space available to wage agreements, so not to this. They can only spend that euro once. Then it is not crazy to ask the Minister: if this could be a success formula, what he is going to investigate, could he then look specifically at whether funds could be released for that purpose?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u72	A few things. It is really wrong that it would not go well with the development of the number of employees in the care. What doesn't go well is better keeping the employees in care, that's right. But if you look at the balance, so how much net is added, then last year there were 37,000 to 38,000 people in the plus, I say out of my head, so even more influx, but there is indeed too much outflow, so there is still a lot of work to do. Indeed, there are job vacancies that are hardly filled, all of which are true, but let us not pretend that it is not possible to recruit new people. On the contrary, it is very successful to recruit new people, but it is less successful to hold people. But the net result is very positive. By the way, I will be sending a progress report again in November. Then we're going to go over all the numbers very well with each other. When it comes to the budget that is available and which employers have to deal with, it works that way that we give the budgetary framework within which we can make agreements. That's what's happening. Your former colleagues from the FNV are really more enthusiastic about the vvt-cao than the choice of words you choose, because it is a very nice collective agreement. The FNV says it's really an example for other sectors. I think it's important to establish that with each other. It is also good for people in care for the elderly, especially since there has been no new collective agreement for some time. That is not as long as you say, because I think the previous collective agreement came at the end of 2017, but it took some time. Fortunately, there is now a collective agreement, including in ggz and in disability care. This shows that you can conclude a very nice collective agreement within the budgetary space that the Empire offers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u73	First, just a few minor corrections. I didn't say it wasn't going well with the influx, but that the back door is wide open. Let's face it, if someone comes in, he can't do the work of a very experienced colleague who's leaving. Secondly, I did not say that people had to wait a very long time for a collective agreement, but that a great deal of time had passed between the previous wage increase and the forthcoming wage increase. There's 18 or 20 months in the vvt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u74	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u75	My question is, once again, a very concrete proposal. There is indeed a bargaining area for collective bargaining parties. A collective agreement has been established in many places, with wage agreements, but not everywhere. On 20 November, the hospital staff will take action. Most collective agreements run for a few years. In these few years, therefore, no agreements will be reached by the collective agreement parties, as Mrs Agema and I would like to see, for example, on this full-time bonus.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u76	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u77	If that research shows that this full-time bonus could help, and at the same time you can see that collective bargaining parties do not have the opportunity to make agreements on it for the next two or two and a half years, then surely it would not be strange if the Minister were to look into the possibility of additional resources?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u78	Well, Mr. Chairman, let's get this over with. I have just told Mrs Agema that I am going to have this conversation with employers. I'm just gonna do that. I have also pointed out to Mrs Agema that Radboud, for example, is already doing this, for anesthesia workers, for surgical assistants. It's already doing this. Just. Those aren't collective agreements or anything. It's just a sensible employer. Why don't we stop talking about this with those sensible employers, with the people who feel like it, and see how far we're going? I feel a little invited to a collective bargaining table through Mr Kerstens, but it is not wise to do so. I'm just not gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u79	We shouldn't be doing anything crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u80	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u81	Can we get to the second block yet?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u82	No, Mr. Chairman. I must disappoint you, because I really have yet to respond to another proposal. I said I'd take out some of the proposals that are getting to the organizational level. In any case, a proposal from the SP affects the organisation of the care differently, and I really need to do that right for a while. Then I'm gonna move on to the next block and move on. In fact, it is the proposal to abolish the premium, to abolish the supplement and, in fact, to tax everything. Why wouldn't you just do that? In its simplicity it has something of charm anyway. I also think that the outcome of the Dog's poll, which you gave, brought with it a little bit. You knew exactly what the percentages were for all parties. It is only, in fact, that there is something to be said about this. First of all, it doesn't do very much. In fact, it does something negative with the affordability of care, because it just costs 700 million extra. That's one. Two. This proposal does not do anything with the organisation or whatever of the care itself, and that is where the biggest problem lies. In fact, it mainly affects the distribution of costs. Suppose you would like to divide the costs, the public charges, differently between low incomes and high incomes. Do you have to do that through care, or do we just have the tax laws for that? That is the question. Wouldn't you just organize that in a different way? Well, you do, because you then choose to significantly increase the drives through tax legislation. I don't know if you've told the same thing to the people you had Maurice the Dog questioning. Of course, there are some negative aspects to that. Low incomes are improving; that's right. For example, more than a quarter of households are declining from twice wml. Of course, that's a lot. There are also large outliers between -15%. So, I don't know if anyone will really get excited about that when the bill actually ends up on the doormat. In any case, it leads to a substantial redistribution of costs. It also leads to higher costs. And it doesn't do anything about the issue we really have, and that issue is: how do we organise our concerns?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u83	That last point, of course, is a different one. That's not what this is about. This concerns the question: how do we organise our health care system in solidarity so that the strongest shoulders can bear the heavy burden? What is happening in our proposal? Three-quarters of the people are getting better. The Minister is now picking out one figure. The bottomline is: the 20% highest incomes will contribute more and the rest will benefit. That is at the heart of our proposal. I would like to draw the Minister's attention to a piece in today's Algemeen Dagblad with the title One in three Dutch unpleasantly surprised by healthcare costs. That is what is happening under the current system. People are surprised by their own risk and by the care premium, which keeps increasing. What would be fairer than abolishing the risk of our own being fined sick and paying the premiums fairly from taxes? We'll get rid of the whole bureaucracy. It is beautiful in its simplicity; the Minister is right about that. That saves a lot of bureaucracy. And so it also makes it much more solidarity. Three quarters are improving. The majority of the population wants it. In fact, even the majority of the minister's own supporters are in favour.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u84	The minister's own supporters. Then you mean the other cabinet members.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u85	That is also a plus if the majority of directors join us. Then we'll put it in the bag.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u86	Well, don't get too excited, because I'm gonna say a few things. Solidarity? Sure. But look at the Dutch healthcare system, and call me one healthcare system in the world where solidarity is better secured. If you look at what low incomes absolutely pay, so in absolute terms, then at the time of the sickness fund that was a fat €550. That has now fallen net to €370, which I believe is out of my mind, or at least less than €400. Never has there been so little net paid to care in absolute terms by the lowest incomes. If I look at the percentage of what is being spent on care, which is something else, then we see that all the percentages, especially for people at welfare level or at wml level, but also at modal level, have fallen. It is therefore a question of health care costs as a percentage of total income projected. At the level of assistance, for example, it was 23% in 2010, 18% in 2020. For wml it was 22% in 2010, 15% in 2020. I would point out, just for a moment, that in our system in particular we treat low incomes in an incredibly united way. If you look at the total own contribution as a whole, i.e. in the total cost of care of 88 billion, 11% is paid through your own contribution in the Netherlands. 11%! That's incredibly low. Find a country that can organize an even lower percentage, an OECD country with this quality of care, with this accessibility of care and with this high bar when it comes to quality. Be careful to put away the reality when it comes to the distribution of the costs of care, so gloomy. Don't do that. We can only see that in the accumulation of care costs there is a lot going on. That is why we have also introduced the subscription rate. That is why we have said that we are freezing our own risk. That is why we have also said that we are reducing the Wlz's own contribution. We are also taking all these measures to reduce the accumulation of healthcare costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u87	The Minister manages to make it sound logical that people with a modal income contribute far more to the cost of care than the most wealthy in our country. Of course, that can't be explained. I just referred to a piece in the Algemeen Dagblad about people who can hardly afford to pay their own risk, people who are surprised when they are referred to a specialist after a visit to the general practitioner and are faced with huge costs. This system is unnecessarily complicated and not mutually supportive. Not only does the SP think so, but a large part of the Dutch population now think so. That is also the view of a large part of the CDA's supporters. I would like to ask the Minister to at least keep an open mind, and to see which parts of this plan we should examine better. Then we can see how we can make the healthcare system, which has become so extremely complicated, easier and more affordable, and how we can prevent so many people from getting into trouble because they are unexpectedly facing high costs. And then we are talking about a third of the population, as was still in the paper today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u88	Of course, it is not true that someone with a moral income pays more than someone with a high income. That's not true. A person with a high income pays much more of that total 88 billion than someone with a low income. That is precisely what solidarity is. This solidarity is very deeply embedded in the healthcare system. That is both absolute and percentage. So for both, both relative and absolute, it's just that steps have been taken. In absolute terms, high incomes pay a lot more. And in percentage terms, despite the huge increase in healthcare costs over the last ten years, it has been possible to reduce the percentage cost of income. That's a hell of a performance. Call me one other country that's managed to do that in recent times. That's one. Two. You say: but keep an open sight. Well, on one element, I do. Then it is more about the element of the surcharges, because that is where the refund comes in. This does not apply exclusively to the care allowance. The biggest problem at this point is not in the care allowance either. We also agreed, of course, to come up with an ibo, an interdepartmental policy investigation, to see if we could add more simplicity to that. In terms of simplicity, I find it charming. At the same time, I say that we cannot simply change that. But in terms of simplicity, I do find it charming. But if it is a possible need to do something else about the distribution of costs, I would think: no, I think we have done it very nicely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u89	Nor would I claim that we have poor working care in the Netherlands, because that simply does not do justice to everything that is going well. But I would like to join with what Mr Hijink says. Let's just open our eyes and see how we can make it even better. For example, I would strongly recommend to the Minister that he take a trip to Sweden and Denmark, where care is paid from taxes. There is no discussion between the left and the right either, and they are all very satisfied with that. Anyway, my question is about...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u90	Thank you for this invitation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u91	I shall come back to the vulnerable elderly and the agreements that have been made. The Minister says that there is an agreement and that ZN and VNG have agreed on this. That is quite different from the other agreements that have been concluded, which include the signature of a minister, with which you of course state: we are serious, we are going to keep each other sharp on the agreements made. This is different with the vulnerable elderly and the agreements between ZN and VNG. Good thing we're getting started on this and glad that the Minister reports to us at the beginning of next year on how things stand. Of course, we all know you have front runners and leftovers. If it turns out that a number of municipalities or health insurance companies do not sufficiently fulfil this role and ambition, would the Minister be prepared to play a stimulating role in this and call on them to ensure that these vulnerable elderly people cannot wait for years to come?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u92	Yes. My answer to the first question is that I really don't need a signature to interfere with anything. That doesn't make any difference to me. We talk to them very intensively and very regularly about the progress of this cooperation agenda. That's one. Two: if in spring it turns out that it really doesn't work out, just to sum it up, we'll of course sit closer on top of it and see if we can give the stragglers a little ass. Sure, sure. Then, chairman,...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u93	It's time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u94	It's time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u95	No, ho ho, we cheered too early.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u96	I still have one more question. I'd just said that, but then I said I'd come back to it. That was about Buitenhof last Sunday. I've looked back on that broadcast twice. I heard a lot of standard sentences put in a row about organisability, and then the Minister suddenly said, "I'm coming up with a system change." Well, could he explain that? 'Cause we haven't heard about that since. What kind of system change is that? Should that organizational capacity be...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u97	I think I have explained this very comprehensively. I have said that we are going to see what is needed to achieve more direction, more coherence and more accountability in the region and to remove incentives that promote all kinds of behaviour that you really do not want at all. That means that we are going to do the analysis first and then come up with a contour note, where as far as I am concerned, it is inevitable that I have indeed said that we are going to come up with a change in the system. I think that's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u98	Yeah, but what then? What kind of system change? Which law will then be amended in what way? What's the Minister thinking? I'm so excited about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u99	I wonder if you have just followed the discussion. I have explained very precisely, very meticulously, what we are all facing at the moment. And I have not been complete for a long time, but I dare not, given the encouragement of the chairman and the gaze of Mrs Laan. So I certainly haven't been complete. I have mentioned a number of examples of things that I now see are not working properly in practice. I have indeed mentioned the inevitability of changing the system. As I said, in the direction of Mr Hijink, I believe that if you thought that meant that we were going to switch to the National Health Fund, you were wrong. We are not going to do that, of course, because that costs a great deal of money, really does not solve that much and is going to take way too much time. But we are going to look very closely at what is not going well and what changes this entails.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u100	Yes, so the Minister at Buitenhof says that he is thinking about a system change, but we have to do it here with the communication: wait for a contour note. But what does he mean? Is it about the Wmo? Is it about the mistake of transferring care and community care to the Health Insurance Act? Does that change in the system mean that the basis of the Wlz will be widened? What direction is he thinking?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u101	With all due respect, I have just explained all this in great detail and I am not going to repeat it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u102	Well, I didn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u103	Yes, you do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u104	Now the minister's gonna say I'm incomprehensible, while he's in Buitenhof... I really watched that broadcast twice. I don't know what the minister means. He can say it here!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u105	That's very good. I'd take another look at it if I were you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u106	The Minister can say here what law he is going to amend, what system change he means, what he has in mind? He didn't? What's he gonna do? What are his plans? He's not gonna keep the Chamber waiting for six months while he announced a system change at Buitenhof last Sunday? What law? The Health Insurance Act, the Wmo, the Wlz, the Youth Act maybe? What law is he going to change? What system change is coming? He didn't say anything about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u107	I have just indicated that we need to adapt to all kinds of concrete bottlenecks at the moment in the way in which the three systems operate in a region. We need to make adjustments that will remove incentives that provoke misbehaviour. We need to make adjustments in the way in which we have organised cohesion and direction, in the responsibility over the domains, in the responsibility for an adequate palette of care, given the increase in demand for care. These are all very specific points. They're asking for an amendment to the law. All these abbreviations you have mentioned will all come along, because all these bottlenecks are enshrined in those laws. So indeed, it is about a change of those laws. If you ask me now, at the beginning of that process: and what exactly is the law and what article is going to be amended? We're not there yet! That's exactly what we're gonna do in the right order of things. And I also said that none of the bottlenecks that people are experiencing now have to wait for that. So we're just gonna get to work with all these bottlenecks. And it is only where they are actually linked to the way in which we have set up our system that this will undoubtedly lead to a change in that system. And, by the way, that's what Cabinets do; always. That's not something special, that's what Cabinets always do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u108	So far, all we've looked at is the nurturing of all those systems. Until 2007, in the AWBZ all these steps of care for the elderly were together. But no, the housekeeping had to go to the municipalities. No, the AWBZ had to be lifted. Neighborhood care and community care had to go to the Health Insurance Act. Care homes had to be closed down. The whole AWBZ has been lifted. My proposal is all this time: bring it back under one hand. Then you have a solution for all problems, over the bulkheads. I mention the problems the Minister sees of all those cars from all those providers at all those senior apartments. Does the Minister include this in the reconnaissance: all steps in one hand again?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u109	Mr President, I am afraid that I cannot, and Mrs Agema can, be for the sake of your call to be concise and to keep up with it. I think I have to say that we will talk about this a great many times. I promised Mrs Laan that we would come to a conclusion in the spring. I told Mrs Ellemeet that this would include the state of play on the regional imagery and on the cooperation agenda. Let us then engage in the debate very generously and very comprehensively, with everything we have always wanted to say on this issue. Otherwise, I'm really just gonna repeat what I just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u110	Well, I guess I'm gonna make up all my interruptions anyway. Is the Minister prepared to go back to that old situation of the seven steps of care for the elderly, from domestic help to nursing home? Is he willing to put back into one hand what's been broken since 2007, so you can solve all these problems? Is he willing to take that in that contour note?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u111	What will certainly be taken into account in this outline note, but I have just said that in the direction of Mrs Ellemeet, is the question whether the current organisation of care at home in three laws is a sensible thought towards the future. If you say 'go back to the AWBZ, because that was fantastic', I can add a few considerations to why that was not the case. I say "then" and not "now" because otherwise I'm gonna have a real fight with the chairman. Back to the old AWBZ is not a solution to the problem we have tomorrow. No way! So we're really gonna have to do it smarter than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u112	So it's "no."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u113	I also heard the Minister say on several occasions that there should be more cooperation in the system. That's how I translate it. My suggestion to achieve this by changing the roles of the different players is to examine the role of insurers. I have also made a suggestion for this, but it has been rejected in the written answers. But apart from all the laws that make a system, it's also about the question: who's in charge, who's in charge, who are you negotiating with? My proposal would be: a change in the system could very well be achieved if the role of insurers were also examined. Shouldn't politics be the boss again, instead of insurers?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u114	But politics is the boss, even now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u115	Then I would like to suggest to the Ministers that they reconsider the answers to the 102 pages of questions. The other question is: that is what it is about; I refer you to it; no, that is not what we are about, that is invested there; go to the NZa. So you won't get away with it that easily, I'll just say that. Then let's put it this way. We'll start over. Does the Minister agree with me that a change in the system which should lead to the resolution of the problems in tomorrow's care cannot be achieved without a change in the role of health insurers?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u116	Yeah, I think so, but even without a change in the role of the health offices, it won't work. Without a change in the role of municipalities, it will not succeed. That's exactly what this is about. But "the government again the boss, and not the health insurance companies" is really an improper frame. The role assigned to health insurers has been assigned to them by politics. Indeed, you can also assign a different role to politics. It's possible. You can also assign a different role to municipalities. It's possible. I do believe that we will have to make some adjustments here and there. That is another thing, I have also said to Mr Hijink, than something like a national healthcare system, which I do not believe in, for very many reasons. But, yes, we certainly need to change the role, I think, of all those actors in the field, not only the health insurers, but also the municipalities, the health offices and also the supervisors, by the way. Yes, I do. What kind of adjustment does that require exactly? However, I believe that we must keep to the order of things: first we must look closely at the bottlenecks, then we must look at what is needed and then we must take the appropriate measures. In the meantime, none of what is now asking for a solution must wait for that. I am committed to that, and I continue to underline it. We're just gonna solve all those things that are now asking for a solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u117	Good. Then I find that we are an hour and a half busy. Mr. Hijink, what can I do for you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u118	I have one more question on this point. Crucially, when the big plan comes up, of course, is the question: who is going to deal with the money and who is going to cut the buttons in the end? I would be sorry if we did not come to that until that plan is in place. So I would like to ask the Minister, if he comes up with some sort of first sketch somewhere in the spring, that we come here to discuss in detail the question of who is going to be managing the money in that region. Who is going to be the one in the region who will eventually get the hang of it when it comes to who gets what kind of care? That is crucial in our view. Otherwise, I fear that some kind of new clay layer will be added to all the layers we already have. It will not help anyone, so I would ask the Minister to make it clear at an early stage who is going to take on this role.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u119	I come in the spring with a state of mind. How far it's articulated and what it's about exactly? What we will do at that point is outline where we stand in the analysis of the bottlenecks that call for a solution to the direction in which we might think. I don't know how far we've progressed in that. Who makes the decision about the money? That is, of course, a huge simplification of how we have set up our system. So I think it will be a little more precise than that, both in terms of the bottleneck and the solution. Or we should build a whole new system. But once again, I said: it is really very much the question what that solves. So a system without insurers? No, I don't think you'll see that. Nor do I believe that you will see a system without health offices or a system without municipalities. So health insurers, municipalities and health offices will have decision-making powers and will hold over the money. The issues that call for a solution are much more precise than that, namely: who is talking about creating the capacity that is ultimately needed in a region? Who directs the domains when planning needs to be made? Who is responsible for removing stimuli, which are now unintentionally leading to behavior that does not help? This is sometimes indeed about funding systems. This is sometimes about investing responsibilities differently in the region and perhaps also about appointing new responsibilities in the region. It's all possible. That is what this piece is about, and I would not like to choose in advance for such a simplification of reality that you will be either extra surprised or extra disappointed. I want to be specific about what you have to expect from us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u120	I see we're at the end of the first block. We've got eight blocks and we've got three regiments. Members of Parliament have one hour's speaking time together in the second term. Sixty-seven motions were tabled last year. I don't know if we're gonna make it to 2:00, but let's try a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u121	I have thanked you so many times for this encouragement, that I hardly dare to do so anymore. But still, thank you for this encouragement, Mr President! The nursing home care. There we have a double game now. We had the competition of quality and for that we added 2.1 billion extra. As a result, a lot of people have been hired. But we also know by now that we have gotten a new game and that game is about capacity. We have talked about this a number of times and we have also made a number of points. The Chamber has also asked for action. The first point. Money, enough money until the end of the year or the sight of money for next year may be an obstacle for nursing homes to open an extra wing or for care offices to do an additional purchasing round. Where the issue is concerned, we must take it away, and that is simply 'flat money'. It takes a lot of money for that, by the way. For example, the last contribution was 250 million. But if you add up how much money has gone to nursing care for capacity, it turns out that in 2019 alone it will go to 950 million. Apart from the quality budget, we are talking about 950 million for capacity! That is a lot, and that has everything to do with the sharp increase in the number of indications. This increase has been around 4% a year in recent years, even though the number of 80-plussers has not grown by 4% a year. Luckily not, I'd like to say. By the way, that's just not possible biologically either. So we see that the number of 80-plussers has grown by about 2%, while the demand for capacity, the indications, was about 4%. That capacity is not delivered with a plus per year of 4% and that is why you see it back in the waiting lists. So we have to deal with those waiting lists. Money helps! Money helps a lot, I hope, and the health offices are on top of it to make sure that money is actually used. Also for next year there is extra money for the capacity. It really is a huge amount of money, but I do not think that money is the biggest issue. People and locations are. You just have to make sure you have the real estate that goes with it. That was also a question from the Chamber. The second is therefore that demand for capacity is concentrated on the region and on the real estate needed for this. TNO and RIVM, among others, are now examining this capacity demand in detail. These institutions are all working together to produce an adequate picture in December, not only nationally, but also regionally, so that these health offices can work with that image. The care offices must then ensure that they actually realise that capacity to plan. That's the second one. The third one is about the waiting lists that are out there right now, because you can see they're coming up. They're actually running up the last year, especially the last few months of the last year. So you see it just rising, and that is an expression of the fact that capacity is not growing sufficiently fast compared to demand growth. That is why additional capacity is needed, but not only because there is also a need for additional mediation. I have had a discussion before in the Chamber, including with Mrs Agema, about whether we should not get a grip on the way we register. We are doing this now with "active waiting" and thus with a mediation question from the healthcare office, and with "non-active waiting." Shouldn't you have more control over what's in that group waiting inactively? You might not have to worry about part of it. Another part is already in a nursing home, but once actually had a different preferred place. But you have to worry about some of the people, if only because they may not know that the healthcare office had that active mediation task. Perhaps also because the environment doesn't know that, it's not being used enough. In any case, that is what I often hear when I explore the casuism, which I also talked about with Mr Van der Staaij. I hear: we really would have used this mediation task sooner if we had known. Then make sure you know. So we need to work very hard on an active mediation task for these healthcare agencies. I've agreed with them to see if we can find another way to classify or register. Not because we love Excel, but because then we get a better grip on how bad those 17,000 are. At least it's not a good thing. We've got to get that number down. I also expect it to work to get it down. That 4% growth can't go on, you'd say. But let's get a better grip on what's on that waiting list. As soon as I get that, I'll get back to your room. Then I would like to investigate where this 4% growth actually comes from, because it is so different from demographics. That investigation has also been initiated and is moving towards the Chamber. In the sum of all these measures, I really expect us to get a better grip on the waiting lists. Mrs. Laan asked about the 85/15 meeting. So that is not about the extra capacity budget, because it is just about the rate, so to speak. It is about the quality resources, the 2.1 billion that have gone in the direction of the institutions. Of these, I agreed that 85% should be spent on staff. The background was that the calculation of the 2.1 billion was based on 85% human costs. So I said: we are not going to change that. According to the CPB's credit transfer, such recourse to the labour market should be feasible during those four years of introduction. That's how the CPB said it. So you actually need 10,000 people per year on the labour market, during the introduction. 10,000 fte, I must say. That's a little more human force. In the total period, 70,000 people, 40,000 FTE, are concerned only on the quality side, so still separate from the capacity. This means that we have to put the providers, the employers, incredibly under pressure to find people. If we don't, then their bank account will be shiny, but Grandma hasn't noticed. And we can't afford that. I'm sure you wouldn't approve of that either. That's why we agreed 85/15. We have also noted, in the first year that we did so, it is now the second year that this appointment is so tight that we must see if we can bring along very good ideas that could lead to job-saving innovation. Otherwise, it would be a shame. We've talked about this for quite some time, because I'm afraid to break down that door. I do not want to apologise for not doing everything I can to find the necessary people in the labour market. Eventually we made the deal 85/15 it is, but if you have a better idea to get closer to that quality framework, along the line of innovation, then you can submit that idea to your healthcare office and the healthcare office will also have the space. Then there was the discussion: if that care office gets that space, it might be that nationwide is not going to be 85/15 the billing rate across the country. Of that we said: it is possible. If it's 83/17 or 82/18, it doesn't scare us very much. But "it was quite difficult to find people in the labour market" is therefore not a reason. We have to keep maximum pressure on it, so they're really gonna put everything on everything. The interesting thing is that it seems to be working. Special enough, by the way. It seems to be successful, both in terms of capacity and in terms of additional money, and in terms of quality and additional people to be found. Finding these new people seems to work. A lot of new people are being hired. In the meantime, if you convert it by location, we have over 2,000 locations on average thirteen people more in care per location than at the time of the start of the quality framework. That's really special. And that's only related to quality. So it seems to be working, but I will also inform you more about this in the progress report.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u122	I have a question about that. It would be very impressive if we had that 40.00, purely for quality. In addition, you have the extra capacity. Are there any forecasts for the coming years? Do we think we're gonna be able to do it over the next few years? At some point, of course, it can also compete with each other. Then that's what we need to talk about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u123	In fact, we've already talked about it. In any case, we have discussed it and I have talked to ActiZ about it. At least I think it is too early to throw the towel in the ring and say "what if" in advance. I really want to stick to that 85/15 for now. That seems to me to be the very best idea, also because you can get all the other forms of labour-saving innovation out of the rest of that huge budget for nursing home care. We're growing unbelievable. We are growing to over 13 billion at the end of this cabinet period. This year, for the first time, we spend more on nursing care than on our entire primary education together. We are growing great, so innovation is not dependent on just the 2.1 billion. All other innovations can of course also be financed from the other 11 billion. So it is not the case that this innovation depends only on the 2.1 billion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u124	Then it would be nice if we could save that within that nursing care, that you could find the people for that extra capacity and for that quality statement. It's just as important if we don't move people out of home care, out of community care. That's where over 90% of the elderly live.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u125	That's an important question. It is rather related to the discussion on the organizational aspects of care, which I am not going to reopen now. That is why I believe that there is a shared responsibility. In the context of the Working in Care programme, it has been agreed that there should also be coordination in the region, in order to ensure that you do not compete. For decades, however, nursing homes have been difficult to compete with hospitals. It's actually the first time the nursing homes have been able to compete against the hospitals. The care of the neighbourhood is indeed a greater concern. By the way, in the neighbourhood care sector, there is just under-utilization at the moment. There's over 200 million underspending. I therefore have no reason to believe that there are insufficient opportunities to cope with it, not even for example because it is exactly the same collective agreement and people simply have money to keep people. So it's about the attractiveness of the work, and that's where both the neighborhood and the nursing home are concerned that you just need to be a good employer at this time. Moderate employers are at the back of the line, because people really have it for picking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u126	Very good. Then Mr Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a question for the Minister. We were sent a sort of report from the Court of Auditors, in the run-up to the budget debate. It states that the 85/15 has been explicitly released in the administrative agreement. When I hear the Minister like that, he says that this should not be read as if the target for more staff is no longer the main issue. Can he explain how he reads this, because this was really in the letter ActiZ sent himself: it is released.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u128	The deal's just 85/15. If you have a better idea, there's room. Not only to present that idea, but also for a healthcare office to make a decision about that better idea: comply or explain. That better idea must always be at the heart of the quality framework. That's the line. It hasn't changed. That's when there was a discussion. If individual health care agencies can come up with something different than 85/15 because there is just a very innovative idea, it may be that if you add up all those quality plans and their accountability, in the expenses it does not come to 85/15 for all health care offices as a whole, but that you come to 83/17 for example. Is that a problem? Does that scare me very much? No, that doesn't scare me very much. That's how you should read this sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u129	For me, that is something else than explicitly letting go. With explicit release, you think it can just be 60/40.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u130	No. Well, I'd find that really weird. That would mean that one suddenly only had brilliant innovative ideas from the 2.1 billion, not from the rest of the money. I'd find that weird. I'd think the health offices would do their job better than that. And the core is that there must be maximum pressure on employers to do everything possible to fish people out of the labour market, and thus to create new jobs, to do job carving within the institution and so on. And you have employers who just do that fantastic. I'm going back to the next block, Mr. Chairman. That's it. That's it. That's it. I come on the block about living and caring.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u131	Too late, Mrs. Bergkamp. Well, let's do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u132	I thought I was pretty fast, but okay. I'd like to ask you another question about the nursing homes. Because the minister would come back to a question I asked aboutzzp 4.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u133	Yeah, excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u134	And I would like to add the following question. The Minister comes up with some kind of analysis of how people are registered, which is about active waiting and inactive waiting. I would like to inform the Minister that, in my opinion, there are a lot of people who are not waiting, while they are certainly actively waiting but prefer a nursing home in their municipality, or have a preference for a certain nursing home. Looking at the heaviness of these people's concern, I do not think that we can say in such a situation that these people are not actively waiting. I would simply like to give that to the Minister for his analysis. And my question aboutzzp is going to answer the minister now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u135	Yes. I come first to the active/unactive waiting. This is exactly why we're doing that analysis, because you need to know much better who's being registered as inactive. You can't say from all the people who are registered like that, that it wasn't really necessary. Nonsense, it is necessary, because otherwise they would not have been given an indication. You can't say that it's all "a disaster," because most people are happy just in care. Our inventory at the health offices shows that even with most inactive people, the health offices just have a conversation every so often. For example, we have agreed with carers or with the district nurse: if it doesn't work anymore, just make a phone call, because then we are going to put you from "non-active waiting" to "active waiting" and mediation. At the end of the day, 247 people were helped above the threshold standard. Those are exactly 247 too many, but on the whole of the 140,000 clients for nursing care, of course, that number is not very high. On Mrs Bergkamp's other question, I think I have responded very extensively in the letter I sent to the Chamber, which is aboutzzp 4. Mrs Bergkamp says: that's actually quite a big problem, couldn't it be that the new funding gives rise to strategic behavior, and that people just stop doingzzp 4. I have said that this does not seem to me to be a good representation. 'Cause what did we do? With thezzp's and the way the funding was set up for that, there was a gap between what the clients cost and what they got from the funding. Then we said: we're going to do a cost-benefit study over allzzp's per zzp. You know that, and we've talked about it several times. In that we saw that the funding for zpp 4 was simply too large. So there was too much money. The funding of the heavierzzp's in particular was too low. This is also in line with the view that many nursing homes have and that they say: our clients' care questions are becoming more complex and heavier. Well, that's true, and that's also evident from the cost research. Then it was said: okay, then we're going to redistribute it into the cost-cost system so that it's right. At the same time, we have compensated the institutions that would be very much affected because they had a lot of zzp 4 and another zzp going down. I just don't see the strategic behavior Mrs Bergkamp assumed. I've responded to that. You also said: but I think there are mainlyzzp 4 people on the waiting list for a nursing home. We've seen that that's not really the case. In particular,zzp 5 has an overrepresentation for the waiting list. And we also see that the biggest growth is atzzp 5, not atzzp 4. I think Zzp 4 remains a bit more stable than zzp 5. What could be, is that withzzp 4 people think: I might last a little longer at home because I'm waiting for that place I actually want. But now I'm going to be very hipeininterpreting. And with zzp 5 there's actually just no choice anymore and you can't choose to keep it at home a little longer, because then you just have to. So I guess that's a little bit behind it. But again: I haven't studied this very deeply either, but this is what I suspect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u136	Who am I to say it, but I think the Minister's image just doesn't add up. I really think there's a problem withzzp 4. I also hear that from formal bodies, and I hear that from healthcare providers. I'm talking to clients who are really stuck with that in the system. So I actually want, because I'd be very sorry if these people stopped coming into a nursing home, some kind of commitment from the minister that he's still talking to CIZ and ActiZ again to see if that image, the impression I have, is really a problem. Because I'm sure this minister doesn't want these people to have a place in a nursing home either, which is why, because I get the Minister's story. I stay far from those rates and the NZa, but they should never be a reason to refuse people. My question is when the Minister will return to that investigation of active waiting and inactive waiting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u137	I think I'm gonna have to take it in there, too. Let's just apply that precision, even in the causes. Let's split it up with the active and inactive waiting, and especially with the inactive waiting to see what the background is. To what extent is one in health care, and what is the reason why they do not have an active mediation question at the moment? If there are a lot of 4 people in there, then there will be an explanation for that. I think that's part of the conversation with the health offices for the next few months. They call these people all the time, so I think they have to be able to say that somehow. I would indeed like to speak to ActiZ and the CIZ about this. No, I certainly don't want to give the impression that that would be less bad. If a place in the nursing home hadn't been needed, they wouldn't have been given an indication, because the CIZ is quite straight. That indication is clear. If it hadn't been necessary, they wouldn't have had an indication. So yes, it is necessary. So I'd like to get a closer look at that. I'll report back when I know more about it. It'll take a few months. I think it's just after Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u138	However, I would like to come back to the staff, the nursing homes and, on the other hand, the neighbourhood, and my concern is that we have too few staff for the more than 90% of the elderly who live at home. The Minister's argument is: there is underexhaustment in community nursing, so there is no personnel problem. If I let this work on me for a second, I don't think it does justice to the practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u139	Did I say it so unsophisticatedly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u140	Yes. The signals I'm getting will get the Minister, too. We can be a bit laughing about it, but we are sitting here, with our pleasant working conditions and conditions, and we are now having a little debate on this. I think we really owe it to ourselves to move into the people who work in the neighborhood, which I hear they don't take their holidays and don't take days off that they do. Those people are in trouble. Those are the people in the neighborhood. I think we're talking too lightly about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u141	I want to take that away, really take it away. It is absolutely not my intention to talk lightly about that. There's a lot of hard work in the neighborhood. I know. I don't like that underexhaustment either, to put it this way. Because I don't think I understand it that well. If I go to work and see what Mrs Ellemeet is saying, and at the same time see underexhaustment, then I think: how is that possible? At the same time, of course, it is not in itself the intention to spend more than would be necessary on the basis of the right to care, even from within the system. It's not like the money has to go on all of it. But if there are these kinds of bottlenecks and there are difficult job vacancies, which we certainly see in the neighbourhood care in a number of regions, then things just don't go well there. That is quite apart from all the other things that I think are just not going well, namely the huge fragmentation, the need to work alongside each other, the roster technical stuff, the five-minute registration that still exists with a number of institutions. We've got a lot of work to do on community nursing. I do not want to be light about that in any way, so I hope that I have now taken away the image at that point. I think I can meet Mrs Ellemeet. I want that underexhaustment analyzed: how can that be? Why is it justified? That's what we both want to know. I'd be happy to give an order for that. In fact, I've already given that order, so we know why there's underexhaustment now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u142	That seems very important to me, because I am really very worried about the people who work in the neighborhood. This is not only the fragmentation of the meta-analysis, it is also important to have market forces in the district care sector. I believe it's all in the game, but it's not just that. There are also few people because the contracts are concluded in such a way that there is no room to do your job fully. You only have time for medical procedures. There aren't enough colleagues. These people are in trouble. I'm really worried about that. It's good to have an analysis, to have an investigation, but talk to these people. I'm serious. Make sure that it is part of this research, that there is really extensive talk with the people who do this work, who work in the district care. Not only macro, but also at the level of the employees themselves, there is a need to speak: how do you explain that you cannot take a holiday, that you must continue working and not be able to take a weekend off to refuel? In the long run, we're just going to see these people thinking: I can also work in a nursing home, where I don't have this misery, where I have more certainty about my schedule, for example, and where I have plenty of colleagues with whom I can take it up. If that happens, we're gonna have a huge problem in the neighborhood. Should we have what if scenarios? I don't know, but I think we should use our common sense. My common sense says we have a big problem here. All that money we spend on those nursing homes is absolutely beautiful, but we must not forget the 90% elderly and the people who work there in the neighborhood.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u143	I would have liked to say, halfway through your speech, that I agree with you from A to Z. Why? Because, of course, I talk a lot to district nurses. Because I go into the neighborhood incredibly often during a working visit with neighborhood nurses to see what happens. That's one. Two. I did not entirely agree with the second part of your speech. We do not want competition between nursing and the district in reality, and I do not think we should allow it to go through our discourse. There is a separate ratio why the bar should be raised for nursing care. We have had endless debates on this. I don't want to interfere with that ratio. Because I hear it back too often and that's why I'm a little strict about it. I hear it too often, even in employers' circles in the care of the elderly, but also a bit from the thought of "if we do less there, we would have had it a bit easier in the neighborhood." No, we need to keep setting the bar just as high for nursing care and get on with it. Two. We also need to set the bar high for community nursing. I agree with you again, because we can't really afford to lose care in some regions. We just can't afford that. Three. The fragmentation isn't meta. The way in which we organized our neighborhood care is precisely the cause of all the stuff that local nurses are dealing with. It's an extraordinary waste of time if you have to take your car all day around the city instead of just your own neighborhood, because you were definitely neighborhood nurse. In short, we must return to what was meant by neighborhood care, namely in the district, know the district, know all the partners in the district, and indeed we must get rid of the hunting in the contracts and in the care. We have to get rid of that. That's why we need to stop recording for five minutes. For example, there are a thousand things to do to improve the neighborhood nursing care. We're gonna do all a thousand of them as far as I'm concerned, but not in competition with nursing care. We agree that we must set the bar high for both forms of care. I would like to come back to the specific question of underexhaustment. All right, then we're gonna move on to the block and take care of it. A number of questions have been asked. You will understand that I am going to skip a little bit in my text, but the essence of all the questions that Mrs Sazias, Mrs Laan and Mrs Ellemeet have asked, for example, was: what are we going to do? What are we going to do to stimulate living and care? What are we going to do to ensure that we will have enough places for our elderly people to live and care in? First of all, the Task Force is working on Living and Care. The VNG, Aedes, ActiZ, VWS and BZK work together. This task force hunts municipalities and solves persistent bottlenecks. There is a plan of action at the end of this year. Also following the last debate we had, we asked them whether it would be wise to reach a national agreement with municipalities. That's what they're gonna do. I say this to Mrs Dik-Faber in particular, because she has asked for it more often. There is therefore a plan of action at the end of this year. As soon as it is there, I will, of course, ensure that the Chamber is informed. That's one. Two. The municipalities are encouraged to reflect these challenges. That is what you want: you want that task to be shown by municipality. You want to know how many elderly people live there, how many elderly people will live there, what locations there are now for living and caring and whether that is actually enough. Not only does this cost a lot of implementation capacity, but it also requires certain knowledge, which not all municipalities, of course, immediately have. The same applies to housing corporations. That's why we have the Support Team Living and Care, that municipalities can just be very practical, so just with hands, support. Then we come up with the money, because you will have to develop areas, for example, or you will have to give more space to corporations to get started on this. At the Millions Note and during the General Political Reviews there was extensive talk about the housing market and what is needed there. Of course, 2 billion more has been earmarked by the cabinet for the housing market. It is not specified to what it should be, but at least as a municipality you have this task on your plate. We just need to make sure that we have enough homes and plenty of home-care options. The fourth is that, during the previous debate, we found that the incentive scheme Living and Care does not actually work, at least not in the way we intended. It therefore needs to be adapted. This adaptation is arranged and will start on 1 January. That is the fourth measure to boost living and caring.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u144	The two billion that goes there... Look, the municipalities need more money, because to allocate the land for social purposes they get less. But also the housing corporations need more money, because if you want to build for seniors and you want them to live together, there are, for example, wider corridors, a shared living space and a shared kitchen. That's all gonna cost extra money. How's that two billion going to be distributed if it's enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u145	It's actually two times one billion. One billion is for the reduction of the landlord's tax with an incentive for the corporations that take the biggest step in building. Because that is what needs to be done. That incentive is intended to enable corporations to do so financially. That's one. The second is the development of the area. There could be a lot of things to do with that. Sometimes it has to do with land prices. Well, that's a problem once in a while. There may be a lot of things involved, but it is about starting up territory development. Taking compensatory nitrogen measures to ensure that you are at all at all is not unimportant these days either. That's the second billion. These two billions together then lead to a huge boost to the housing market. That's what we're trying to do. Now we must not repeat the debate of our colleagues in the Interior, and then you will have some trouble in your group, which we do not want to do, but we are going to start working on it. In order to ensure that municipalities, housing corporations and care institutions are sufficiently focused on the task of housing for the elderly, we have said that the Task Force must work on it. It hunts and tackles bottlenecks that come forward, in the vein of "yes, but I can't do this, because..." With these bottlenecks, the task force actually gets to work or lays it down with Mr Ollongren or with me, for example, if the problem really is in national law and regulation. In addition, we need to support municipalities, because we need not only a vision, but also an image of what is actually our task and an implementation plan based on it. Every town must have that. So to get there, you have to drive and help. We both do, in that affair.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u146	Of course, I do not want to repeat the BZK debate, but it is quite clear in this case that the problem is spreading over two departments. We are talking about elderly housing, about the gap between responsible independent living and the nursing home. That's the hole that left behind the closure of the nursing homes. That 1 billion goes to area development, so not specifically to elderly housing. That billion for housing corporations is also not specific to elderly housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u147	No, but it does help, of course. It's about building. The housing market's kind of locked. So we just need to build. A great VVD philosopher invented the slogan "building, building, building." That's exactly what needs to be done. What we have to do is build. When we start building, you'll see that single-family homes are released if you choose to live with the elderly. Those are the houses the elders are in right now. They're free for families. Doing something in one segment helps to pull another segment smoothly. No, we didn't specify it. That would not be wise to do either, because it would mean that we could say from this room for a moment: this is exactly what is happening in the municipality of Hilversum and there in Crooswijk you will have to do that intervention. It just can't be. We must put municipalities to work, but we must ensure that they not only have a vision, but also have an idea of the task. We need to ensure that they have an implementation plan to get there, that they make concrete agreements with housing corporations on this, and then we need to drive it forward and support it. What will then be the solution? I think that solution is going to be everything. New forms of living and care, indeed, please, but also anticipatory homes as Mrs Laan called them or kangaroo homes. These last houses are discussed much as a good solution, although they are not built so much. It doesn't fit in with Dutch culture to take your mother-in-law into your home. I think we're going to see a lot of variety over the next few years and we're going to need all that variety incredibly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u148	From VWS I would like to focus specifically on those care homes, which can also be kangaroo homes, because there is a great lack of living and care. If the elderly then flow through, the large spectrum of homes can be released, including for BZK. This is where we have to fight for old people's housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u149	Last time I got a completely different assignment: to hang out with BZK as much as possible and to give concrete support there. That's what I'm doing and what I've already done. You are absolutely right, because we are also implementing the incentive scheme Living and Zorg from VWS. I have a question for Mrs Laan about this later. We also do this together with BZK, because we also work together in this. But it's true, we're trying to boost new forms of housing and care from VWS, apart from all the MPT and VPT funding that also stimulate these new forms very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u150	Tens of thousands of elderly people are living at home right now, when it's not really working anymore. They would rather live in a house in a sheltered environment, in a small-scale form of housing with other elderly people. They can't go there now, because the nursing homes are closed. That has been the dumbest decision of the past few years. I do not understand why the Minister does not use the few resources he himself has to be able to place more people in a pleasant form of housing, for example a care neighbourhood. He points to corporations and municipalities, but he also has the opportunity to do something. He can extend the admission to the nursing home slightly so that you get different kind of nursing homes, care neighbourhoods, for example, a nursing home that looks more like no matter how old the nursing home used to be. If he did, these tens of thousands of people would be helped and tens of thousands of homes would be freed where families could live. This will solve part of the problem. I'm not saying the other thing shouldn't happen. I also support that, along with corporations and municipalities. But why doesn't he use this option when he can make that choice himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u151	The debate on nursing homes has been held very often, so let us not repeat it. We must always say that there was a lot less use of it. That was also the reason for taking a different decision at some point. Whether the older one is waiting for those long corridors and the practice at the same time, I don't know. I honestly don't believe that. I believe that new forms of living and care are needed, which are better suited to what is needed. Back to the past is not always a solution to tomorrow's problems. There are problems, I very much agree. There's a gap between home and nursing home. That's one. The second problem is that there may not be enough new initiatives. We will see that more and more when we have a better picture of this task. I do not know whether the speed with which this type of initiative comes off the ground at the moment keeps a complete record of demographics, let me put it this way. So, we do have work to do. I'm just setting out all the measures we're taking to do that job. I think the care neighbourhoods are a very charming idea; I have said that before. This is about a small-scale, low-threshold design in its own neighborhood. You don't have to have a very thick wallet to take part in it anyway. I think it is a very nice concept of content, but after discussing it for hours, we came up with something on which we differ: who pays for it and how do you pay for it? What you are proposing is actually one or two steps back: re-introducing zzp 3 or zzp 2 from the old AWBZ again, because that's how I see it. We shouldn't do that. It makes sense that if you live in a house, you just pay your own rent. There are all kinds of funded So my thesis is that it can be done. Within the current funding it can be done. My point is that I haven't seen it yet. I don't see people taking an initiative to start a care neighborhood. What we have done to further stimulate such initiatives is our incentive arrangement. I have said before that, as far as I am concerned, they are open to new forms of housing and care, such as a health care centre. Last time in the debate with Mrs Laan and Mrs Dik-Faber, I said that I also do not like the fact that some really fine initiatives cannot be included in this incentive scheme. We've been a little too tight in terms of spending. So we adapted it. I sincerely hope with you that there will be an initiator who will start a care neighbourhood. That's a very good idea from Mr. Hijink. But I don't have one yet: the current initiatives do not yet have a health centre. But I'm assuming it'll be started sometime. I'd love to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u152	The point that initiators encounter is that it is incredibly complicated to do it within the current system. You have to go through three laws of care and the Wmo, you have to work with the health insurance companies and with the health care offices in the long-term care, you have to deal with municipalities around the table, you have to deal with corporations around the table and you have to deal with the healthcare provider. That's why it's so terribly complicated to start something like that. That is why we say: what is against the fact that a group of elderly people, with whom things are not so good at home, who are lonely, who have fallen or who are afraid to live alone, find shelter in a care neighbourhood? This could be done, for example, by expanding small-scale nursing homes in such a way that the target group can join. That also makes living and living in such houses much more pleasant. Now people in a nursing home die on average within a year, or within six or nine months. That's what happens. I hear those stories, too. But if that group gets wider, then working in those houses will be more pleasant and life in those houses will be more pleasant. And, very importantly, it's a button that this minister himself can turn by adjusting the access. But he doesn't want to. I'm not saying that the other thing shouldn't happen, but why wouldn't you do both? Make sure these are pleasant places to live for these elderly people and at the same time do all the other through the municipalities and the corporations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u153	In Mr Hijink's line of reasoning, there are really two things that are mixed up. One. The need for new forms of living and care. I'll share that. The way in which Mr Hijink talks about care neighbourhoods, at least until it is funded, is a concept that I can imagine older people would like. We know that, too. There are forms of living and caring where there is indeed living together; courtyard-like initiatives. There's a lot of them. Or a lot? At least they're there to the extent that it proves that it's possible. But it requires an initiator. And that's where our reasoning lines run apart. The second thing you are saying is that if you just open up the financial crane, they will come into being automatically. We know that's not true, right? Look how hard we open the crane on the side of nursing care. But did you think that we would have arranged the capacity immediately and automatically? No, of course not. In fact, we really need all these people. We have to move and move incredibly hard. Employers have to move and host very hard to find enough people. And you really think if we turn a pot of money around here, there's gonna be neighborhoods all of a sudden? Of course not. That's not how it works at all. If you get it done to excite the SP department in Oss as initiator of a care neighbourhood in Oss, then we're going to help them with an incentive arrangement and with good ideas from other initiators who got it done. It is possible, it only requires social initiative. It takes something other than turning a pot of money around.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u154	I'll send the Oss department to the Ministry, because they're working there. So you can expect it. But I am a little done with the derogatory way in which the Minister puts these kinds of initiatives and ideas into the ground every time. All we propose is to keep your eyes open for admission to these kinds of institutions and to think about how to make life in a nursing home more pleasant for the people who live there, but also for the people who work there. If it isn't true that you can only go to a nursing home when you're dementing heavily, it becomes places where older people can grow old and stay for a longer time, even if they don't need extreme care. That is the only thing we are proposing and a large part of the population supports such plans. It's beautiful, you know, to destroy it all in such a debate, but a lot of people want it. That is what is happening in this debate, Mr President. The Minister can also say that he is going to seriously investigate what we can do, to see how we can place more people within the institutions we already have. Isn't that a win-win situation for everyone? This is good for these elderly people, but it is also good for the huge deficits we are experiencing in this sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u155	I hope I am clear when I say that I very much welcome the content of the concept of providing a sheltered place, with claim and living together. There are such initiatives, not under the heading of health care, but they are there. I think I agree with you that there are too few of them, so I am not concerned with the content of the concept, because I think it is beautiful. I also think we need new forms of living and caring, between home and nursing home. That's absolutely true. I am critical of the follow-up step you are taking, that we should also pay the living side of it from the Wlz, while people can simply pay rent. That wasn't the biggest problem. The second point is the automation with which you think that when you reverse a pot of money, initiatives suddenly come about. That's not true. You'll always need an initiator. We are going to help every initiator to make it happen. That's the point. I am very enthusiastic about the content of the concept. I hope I made that clear. Then there is Mrs Laan-Geselschap's question about the incentive arrangement, which we have talked about a number of times. It's not being used enough. There are 15 initiatives and so far only small amounts have been made available. That's not good. We really need to use it for real initiatives. We will adapt the scheme as of 1 January so as to increase accessibility and finance more initiatives, including VPT, MPT and PGB initiatives. It's very important. I sincerely hope, without any cynicism, that there will also be a care neighborhood in between, really. To offer that width we have adjusted the scheme. We are going to be on top of it to ensure that these initiatives actually get off the ground. Then I'll move on to the next block of care. I'll skip the introductory texts, with your permission, and go straight to the questions. Mr Slootweg says that we need to combine work and care more. That is necessary, because we also need to take more care of each other as workers. We can't afford to take those jobs away. Mrs Laan asked a similar question; whether we are sufficiently prepared for later, because we know that the generation that is now court supplier, between 45 and 65, is declining. In fact, over the next 20 years, it will be very much reduced and even divided by three, I believe. A comment on these numbers is that people also stay vital longer, even when they are older. For example, my own parents are early 70s and I wouldn't call them old. In fact, many families are on the shoulders of these parents, and I know that I am certainly not the only one. According to these statistics, they would no longer formally be part of the family care generation. I think it is precisely 65-plussers that are increasingly becoming the pivot generation of society, if that is what this is all about. However, workers must also be able to combine family care with work. One in five carers combine work with family care. The vast majority of them only make it discussable when the combination of work and care is no longer possible. Employers must therefore be more aware of this. That is why I support the foundation Werk&Mantelzorg, which has already made 400 companies and 100 municipalities family-friendly. By encouraging this foundation, collective agreements have already been reached in six sectors. Mr Slootweg's idea is to ask the Economic and Social Committee very specifically on this point what labour-conditional arrangements should be made in, once again, collective agreements. I am in favour of this on my own. We are not making the agenda for the ESC here, of course, but I would be happy to pass that question on to the ESC if it is in the Chamber and if it is supported by the Chamber. I will indeed ask the ESC what more the social partners could do to better reconcile work and family care. So I'm positive about it. Then there is Mrs Bergkamp's question about the information box. It is open to other ideas about the title attached to it, but for the time being it has received the working title "the information box for carers." We have over 4 million carers in the Netherlands. We need these people very much. We also know that some of them feel overloaded and that we will have to give them additional support. So we also know that a lot of people do not know that many forms of support are possible. So we want to improve this information very much. At the same time, not everyone will need it. That is why I would like to propose that we start with a somewhat more limited edition in order to see if people can actually get excited about it. In itself, I'm excited about the idea. That's one. Two. I am looking at what we are already doing from the Langer Home programme. Then it is about the awareness, the campaign and the replacement care that we want to drive. So that's all that has to do with respite care. Then we are talking about the pilot of you and Mrs Hermans in the field of accommodation care. That's an intensive form of respite care. I have just exchanged a number of ideas with Mr Slootweg in the field of work and care. There are a lot of ideas to strengthen this care. At the same time, we don't know if it's coming at all. Whether people actually know, we don't know. And if it's enough, that's a bit of Mrs Laan's question, actually, don't know it either. I am inclined to think: let's do this, but in a limited edition. And let us also agree that this is not the last thing we have to do to better support carers. So let's see if we can actually raise the care support to a slightly higher level in order to eventually reach some sort of agenda "care care the care," just to better support them. I really think we're going to have to get a lot better at that. That's what I'm talking about, Mr. Chairman. Then I go to the block of disability care, or actually more: living with a disability. The first question comes from Mrs Laan, who was about renewal. She had a nice example of parents who had set up something beautiful and new, but who did run into all kinds of thresholds to further that beautiful and news. The first is the innovation impulse we agreed on in the Full Life Programme. But it is more geared towards institutions; I have to say that fairly. This concerns intensive disability care and a renewal of disability care. This innovation impulse doubled last year, I believe, through an amendment by VVD and D66 together. That's one. Two is the renewal process, an à la carte accompaniment. This is also aimed at institutions; I have to say that fairly. Furthermore, we know that new initiatives are often launched from the pgb. There is also a great deal to be done here, but there are also a number of thresholds. We're trying to take it away. That's in the Agenda pgb on residential initiatives. So that's where we're trying to help. At the same time, we see that very nice examples, exciting, new examples, come about precisely in this way. That the pgb helps innovation is actually a bit of a side effect of the pgb. We also know that innovative initiatives often run into complicated rules. Now we have the window care for innovation. Yes! We also have a window for this. I'd love to test whether we're helping enough. So I would actually like to ask the initiators you mentioned to report to our Care for Innovation desk. Then let's see if that helps enough. And if that doesn't help enough, then I think we should agree to look at how we can move that window forward, so that we can really make it a landing point for new ideas, and we can help move those ideas through the sometimes complicated dark forest of our system. Then there's the complex care. I think Mrs Van den Berg asked for that. It was partly focused on ggz, but I am now answering it from disability care. Around complex care we have agreed that our healthcare offices will start creating 100 extra places in disability care, for those clients who have such a complex and complex care question that we actually have no or insufficient suitable places for them at the moment in the sum. We've chosen the number 100, just a little bit based on the assessment of the health offices. We thought: "Let's see it first with the 100, and then you're probably a long way away. But also do something else: not only create additional places, but also create a kind of outpatient teams per region, which can support on-site." You can transfer a client with a very complex care question to another institution if it is no longer in his current institution, but that means moving that client. It often also means frustration, let me put it this way: why didn't it work? You can also see if you could just help on location. So with such an outpatient team, we also want to support it at the same time. So we want 100 extra places for complex care and an outpatient team to help solve it on the spot. Those 100 places should be created according to the programme the following year. It is my impression that enough agreements have been made to make that work. And by 2020, these teams will be set up in all regions, so that they will be available everywhere by the end of the year. Then you asked: but how many are actually coming out of the ggz? Look, of course, we have a proper classification of disability care on the one hand and psychiatry on the other. With these clients, you can actually see that their disorder isn't so easy to get into one of those boxes. That is often a reason for the complexity. That can be called comorbidity or a coincidence of many disorders. Sometimes you don't even know what the primary disorder is. In addition, it is incredibly complicated to serve the client, no matter how much you do your best, and to really deliver the care that really helps. So you can see it's going wrong there. This means that we have to have these high-complex places, where we really just need the whole variety and expertise that is just needed, whether it comes from the ggz or from disability care.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u156	I would like to ask the Minister some more specific questions. We have asked written questions at an earlier stage. We asked: is it the case that because of the dismantling in the ggz people with a complex problem, who need both psychiatric support and have an intellectual disability, now end up in disability care, where there are too few places? At that time, the Minister indicated that he did not actually have any figures. So I would like to ask the Minister: how does he come up with this assessment of 100 places? In any case, I belong from the field that 200 places are thought of among those people with this double problem, i.e. an intellectual disability and a psychiatric illness. So I have a question mark on the number of places and b says the Minister that he doesn't actually have good grades, so how can we get there? Thirdly, in his reply today, the Minister says that these are clients who are in the most difficult situations. But then, for example, it's someone who has a disabled child, and that child always lived at home and that parent died. This is a very difficult situation, which must also be resolved, but it is not about the two issues that we are talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u157	Look, a few things. Firstly, the demand for figures. The answer is right. I think you asked my colleague this question, but we will always speak with one voice as a cabinet, even in this case. The answer is right, because you cannot do research or register or classify figures from clients who, if they had been clients in 2013 or 2010, had been funded through the ggz, but because they are now clients, have suddenly become clients who are served by disability care. Moreover, there must also be a basis for the use of disability care services. That's what the WlZ is for. One of the solutions to the problem of duplication lies in the legislative proposal that you discussed with Mr Blokhuis: the inclusion of psychiatry as a separate basis in the Wlz for high-complex casuism. If in the indication the primary disorder is psychiatric, it doesn't matter which route you walk into the system. Whether you care from the Zvw or the Wlz is funded, that is without prejudice to the need for that care to be appropriate. In complex cases, often in cases of comorbidity, coincidence or double diagnosis, whatever you want to call it, this remains simply complicated, also because a disorder can develop. One day one disorder can primarily determine the care question and the other day the other. This requires a flexible team, a dedicated team and, always and at least, a multidisciplinary team. It also requires institutions that can do that. That is often very complicated and often incredibly requires a lot of employees. We know that. There is an offer for this casuism. There are also clients in these places, but we also know that the number of places is insufficient. How do we know that? Because we hear that. We hear that on work visits, just like you hear on work visits. We hear that from health offices, which say: we would like to buy those places, but where, then, where is that offer? And we hear it from providers, who just say: sometimes we don't know for a while; we are very experienced, but sometimes we also have the hands in the hair. That's why we know we have to create extra places. That's why we made that deal in the program Full Life. Then we did say: let's just go for 100. That is a nice number and that is also in line with the observations that are being made. But it's not exhaustive. It is also said: if you could help and support in a few locations, you can last longer and take lessons from one location to another, for example: if you choose this intervention, you will get there. So we're going for a combination of 100 spots and outpatient teams. We're both gonna get it off the ground by 2020. That's what money has been put in place. That's what actions have been put in place. So that's what it has to prove. Imagine that turns out that's too little, which I don't assume, at least, not in advance. But if you could imagine that it is true that that is too little and that we have shown that that is possible, then I would know no reason not to see at that time whether there would be anything more possible. But let's do things in the right order: first those places and then those outpatient teams. Then we can see if it meets the need that there is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u158	Do I understand why the Minister is not prepared to take stock of how many places are needed at the moment? Because I'm getting e-mails from desperate parents who can't find a place for their kids and who have had to make sure 24/7, for a very long time now, that one of the parents is always literally standing next to the child.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u159	We have, of course, also received such e-mails. For us, these desperate parents are precisely the reason to work with those 100 places. I say, let's not study any more, let's just get to work, because we know these places are needed. That's one. Two is: I make the same offer in your direction as I did in the direction of Mr Van der Staaij. If you receive e-mails of this kind, please send them, because we have a unit of complex care questions in the department, which very much likes to work with this type of e-mail. We're just trying to see what we can do. I recognize it: there are furiously complex care questions, where the care question is so complicated that hardly any institution can manage it. Parents can really go down when they stand up for it themselves, with all the good intentions and all the support that is possible at home, but for their feeling they are still too alone as parents. With the severely limited children, we have said: couldn't it help you if we organize a very intensive form of client support at home, the copilot? Well, yeah. We're running those pilots. That's one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u160	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u161	And two: we're working on those 100 spots and those outpatient teams. In short, we're working on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u162	I don't think we're gonna get together now. So I'm just gonna leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u163	That sounded a little threatening, Mr. Chairman. I'd better get on with it. Then I'll continue with the care cowboys.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u164	All kinds of cowboys report to the interrupting microphone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u165	Meatloaf and whatnot!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u166	The fastest horse had Mr Renkema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u167	I have another question about the GDPR. Now everyone's thinking about privacy, but I'm thinking about the doctor for the mentally handicapped. I have read that the first line of action is planned for 2020. I wonder what that means for people with learning difficulties who are going to call on this doctor for the mentally handicapped, especially at their own risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u168	What do you mean? Can you clarify this question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u169	If they move to the first line and are deployed...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u170	What do you mean by the first line?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u171	That the doctor for the mentally handicapped can be used in general care.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u172	Ah, exactly. Yes. It actually works exactly the same as in the rest of the system. That's the point. So when it comes to general practitioner care, this general practitioner care is simply exempt from the risk. Where the referred care is, i.e. not first-line but second-line care, there is also what applies to second-line care: its own risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u173	I get quite a few signals from general practitioners that access to general care is very complicated for people with learning difficulties who live at home or are taken up in residential forms.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u174	But that's something else. It's about the forms of housing. Do you mind if we leave that point in Mr Bruins's portfolio for a moment? 'Cause if we don't, we're gonna be very free-styling on the wallets?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u175	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u176	That's one less cowboy, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u177	Maybe the Minister is going to deal with this in another block, but I expected the Minister in the block of disability policy to say something about the children's playgrounds of disabled ambassador Rick Brink.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u178	I've been dealing eclectically with the questions I'd answer orally. I was actually going to leave it to the written reply, which, I am sure, was crystal clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u179	The answer was clear, but I would have expected the Minister to accept that, given the importance of this, perhaps even publicly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u180	Here's to it. No, it's a beautiful thing. Let's not be laughing about it. It's a beautiful thing. It's a nice initiative that's been taken. Last year it was also put forward, I believe with the motion on Mrs Bergkamp's playground gang. I know that there are all kinds of conversations going on and agreements are being made to bring that forward as well. I very much welcome that, too. It is about the standard that Rick Brink, the Minister for Disabled Persons, has also put forward. What matters is that you have to start an inclusive society early and that is why you have to make it possible to play together. So I'm incredibly cheerful. This applies to all initiatives in this area. Sure. Would you mind if I took the step towards the care cowboys now? I use that term because in the broadcast of The Monitor that term is used and because Mr.Kerstens uses that term as well. It's a combination of fraud, self-enrichment, charlatans, people who aren't supposed to be in care, shitheads and so on. And what do we do about it? You also hear from this list of qualifications that you can't do one thing about it. They occur in many qualities. In The Monitor's broadcast, I simply mentioned a number of measures based on the observations made in the broadcast. In my view, the Chamber has asked for a letter indicating whether the measures we are taking now are an adequate response to the case-law that occurred in De Monitor's broadcast. Mrs Agema and Mr Kerstens asked for this, one in the scheme, the other in the debate. That's what I've been working on. I think I wrote you an extensive letter. I think that question will also come back to the debate on the Wtza. I can just imagine. We are introducing a reporting obligation. We also intend to introduce a licence requirement, including for pgb providers. We are going to create more grounds to refuse or withdraw a healthcare provider's license. We're expanding accountability. In short, with the Wtza we are really taking a number of steps. In addition, we are going to take a number of further steps, for example on the licensing obligation. That's where we'll be back around the turn of the year. But we're doing more. We promote the contract in the Health Insurance Act. That is also very important, because many errors and fraud occur in uncontracted care. With the personal budget, we provide a TKV test, a test of tasks, knowledge and skills in advance by the provider. That is very important, especially when it comes to the examples of protected housing that have been mentioned. With the inspection, we're going to see if we can create a new, independent standard that allows the inspection itself to maintain when it comes to integrity. That comes from the Alliade case. It is a question of enforcement, which still often has to be done on the basis of an observation on the quality of care. So if the care deteriorates, as an inspection you have a title to intervene. If it's "only" conflict of interest, which is of course also very wrong, but the care doesn't deteriorate in quality, you don't have as much leg to stand on as an inspection. Of course you shouldn't. It is now only in the governance code, but we must also want to regulate it at law level. Then, of course, there are many things we do in the fight against fraud. I call it Information Node Care Fraud. The bill's on its way. The Care Alert Register: The bill is on its way. That alert register is very important, because on that basis municipalities can also warn other municipalities about this and that screw-up which we now see can continue in another municipality if he is thanked in one municipality. In addition, we have expanded the detection capacity at the Inspection SZW with thick 20 fte. I share Mr Kerstens' great irritation from front to back. These kind of guys are just undermining our sense of solidarity and our sense of "it's well settled in this country" if there are obvious loopholes in the law that these guys can go through. Those loopholes need to be closed: all of them, one by one. Then the CDA Group makes the proposal...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u181	I think the Minister is going to answer something I asked a question about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u182	About the supervisors? Yes. You have proposed that the supervisors should be subject to a test. Let me just get back to the idea first. I very much underline the intention, namely the professionalisation of internal supervision. That's actually what it is. The examples I mentioned in reply to Mr Kerstens were more about external supervision, but internal supervision is certainly also important. A further professionalisation of this is certainly also necessary. The parallel with the DNB's review and the NZa's review seem complicated to me. How many healthcare providers do we have, 25,000? Suppose the Supervisory Board has an average of four members. If you would then ask those 25,000 healthcare providers to check all the members of the Supervisory Board, then you have 100,000 reviews. If you have to run it by the NZa, I'm afraid the overhead percentage on our side won't recover. I think it's just unbelievable to do it that way. What I understand is that you say: something must be done about the professionalisation of the administration and about the professionalisation of internal supervision. We know that the association of health care administrators has set up an accreditation process. This will even become a condition for membership from 2020. That's one. Two is that the Dutch Association of Supervisors in Health and Wellness has a programme of Good Supervision, including training. So yes, I would actually like to suggest to you to consult with the NVZD and the NVTZ on what further steps we could take to professionalise the board. But I simply cannot live up to the concrete proposal for accreditation at the NZa, because that is really too complex.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u183	I'm a little surprised. I understand you can't do that from today to tomorrow. The Minister therefore thinks I am his side when he says: just look at the practical side. But I also looked at the report that the NZa and the IGJ have issued on the Alliade case. It is said that the administrative system is becoming increasingly complex, and I believe that this is happening in many health care institutions. We may be able to test for integrity, but we will have to do something about knowledge and skills. I think you just need a little more and I think you can also look at how De Nederlandsche Bank set that up. Even though it is becoming less and less, there were thousands of pension funds at first. That way we can give it a little more direction. The minister makes a proposal and says: then they can join the NVZ and the NVZD. But that's hard, because a lot of drivers don't. As a result, I don't think you have a conclusive system that assures you that one has the knowledge and skills and competence that one needs. We can make demands on financial products, but when it comes to people, we cannot! I think that's crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u184	That's right, and I also understand what you're trying to say with that equation. But then a comparison of the numbers, because of course we did calculate it for a while. We have 226 pension funds and, but there are not that many, a few banks against 25,000 healthcare providers. We talked about how complicated it is in practice, regardless of the quality of the Supervisory Board, to supervise new healthcare providers. That is incredibly complicated, because the number of new suppliers is growing like coal. I was gonna say "young as rabbits," but that's not nice. It grows like cabbage! It's growing way too fast, because there's a lot of stuff in there that we can really say isn't a huge addition to our offer. That is also the reason for the increase in the entry threshold in the Wtza. We are increasing it, and we have also said that we may have to get on with the idea of Van Gerven, the licensing obligation that I did not want to go through before. That is not yet going to be settled in this Wtza and we are going to think about how. We will come back to that in December, but we have to deal with it. That all has to do with the numbers. Those numbers just make it impossible for a supervisor to do it anymore. This house will have to have real expectations about our own supervisors, because we need to ensure that we can carry out supervision of new entrants. That's one way. If we say that we are going to monitor quality or whatever, we must be able to ensure that supervision is sufficient. No one, no regulator, can guarantee supervision of the quality of the Supervisory Board by over 25,000 providers. For the number of members of the Supervisory Board, you have to multiply that number by at least four and at least 100,000 people are going to become members of a Supervisory Board. I just don't see it happening that we can set up a supervisor who could get a quality test done prior to the appointment. I don't know what that looks like.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u185	I was just starting out with the practical argument. How do you do that? Oh, yes, I understand very well. But it is also not the case that all those care institutions and healthcare providers mentioned by the Minister have a very complex administrative structure. Sometimes we can talk about that, but I think there are a lot smaller. If we have to choose a practical approach, I would say: let us certainly look at shapes where there is a Christmas tree of e.g. trees. You expect at least a test to be on it, because if you can't control it anymore and some members of the supervisory board can't keep an eye on all the shoving with money, you're a long way from home. At least that seems to me to be an angle from which you can begin.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u186	I asked the inspection and the NZa in response to the description around Alliade, in which the inspection said: we will have to strengthen both internal and external supervision. The external supervision in the way I have just explained to Mr Kerstens, and the internal supervision in a way that gives you more control over the quality of who is actually in the management of those complex organisations. That's why I asked the inspection and the NZa to work that out. They're coming in December, I thought, with some advice coming our way. Let me add the question as you put it to the opinion that comes with it. That's one. Two is: let me consult with those clubs, with those complicated abbreviations I have just mentioned. Let me consult with them to see what else one could do to organise control over the quality of those drivers. However, I keep repeating the remark that I do not see in front of me that there is some kind of pre-assessment by the NZa. I can see that, frankly, they're not being rescinded. That's just too big, too compelling, too complex. I don't see that happening. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll go to my last block, the questions that have been asked about euthanasia. Mrs Laan asked the question how we are going to encourage a timely discussion of euthanasia between the general practitioner and the patient. First of all, of course, I stress the importance of speaking about the wishes surrounding the end of life. That can be about euthanasia, but also about other wishes around the end of life. I'm aware that's a conversation that's not commonplace. We know that also a conversation about palliative care is not an everyday conversation. It is a conversation that is not easy, but it is very good to have it. It is also very soothing to feed it, and to feed it on time. We encourage that conversation, among other things, through the campaign palliative care, but well, then it's about palliative care. I also subsidise the coalition Van Meaningis to the end, a collaboration between eight organisations with different supporters, to stimulate that discussion about the final phase of life. Furthermore, the VWS Ministry finances through ZonMw research into advanced care planning, thinking about the wishes for the last phase of life and making choices for it. I think it is a good thing to go along with that, because I think that is the best thing to do with what you mean, namely to really take the conversation about the end of life between the general practitioner and the patient in the follow-up to the National Palliative Care Programme, which focuses on the implementation, in practice, of good examples. There are many good examples and everything is stimulated and activated. Yet you often encounter patients who are at the end of their Latin and have really not had that conversation. Thus, it has not yet descended into all the offices and in all the implementation practices of the care. It seems to me very good to see how we can further promote this. I think it would be a good idea to come back to that point in the Chamber. Otherwise, without a doubt, that would be your question in second term, and I also read with a slanted eye in my morning messenger this morning. Then the knowledge about euthanasia in doctors and the courage, based on that knowledge, to act as well. That was the background to your question. The first thing we have done, and also agreed to do in the coalition agreement, is to ensure that this knowledge is readily available. We have reviewed the information about the end of life and euthanasia on national government.nl, so that that information is complete and understandable. The second thing we've done is send the revised euthanasia code of the RTE, the Regional Review Committees Euthanasia, to 12,000 doctors. It just popped on the mat last year. That was also agreed. It is also important to highlight the expertise and training opportunities of the Expertise Centre Euthanasia. They are certainly of added value and general practitioners can already make use of this expertise and training. So they're just available. The Dutch Family Doctors Society also has training modules and the KNMG has, for example, the programme of the SCEN doctors, which is also about strengthening the knowledge. This is all part of the field of professionalisation. In principle, professional groups themselves are responsible for this. I would like to say that we have done what we have agreed in the coalition agreement, namely to make better known all the possibilities that exist to get to know you. In addition, there is a lot in professionalisation. So there is just a lot available.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u187	Thank you for the Minister's answer on this subject. It's always a complicated subject. I'd like to nuance something. A number of people in the general practitioners' profession saw this as a kind of criticism of them, but that is precisely why it was not motivated. We welcome the movements that the Ministry is making, but we saw, for example, that 80% of the general practitioners were not aware of the code the Minister was just talking about. Our question is, therefore, how to increase that knowledge more quickly with this important group of people, who can also guide the elderly at some point, so that they can have that conversation in a positive way and make certain choices together in dignity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u188	A few elements. That information must first be available and findable. That wasn't enough, was the observation. That's one. Two is that euthanasia code. It's very readable and crystal clear, even for a non-doctor. I read it and found it extremely informative and balanced. We really sent it, so actively brought it to the attention of all doctors, 12,000 times. In addition, there are courses offered from the various clubs of professionals, also a bit from their own role. The Euthanasia Expertise Centre has its own role and position in the whole. That does indeed offer training. The KNMG also does this, especially for the SCEN doctors. Furthermore, we believe that as a parliament we have a responsibility for professionalisation there, because those SCEN doctors are a condition for the implementation of the law at all. That is why we are contributing to this. In addition, you just have the family doctor's club itself, which also does the preparation. So I didn't see it as a criticism of the group of general practitioners or anything like that, certainly not. I got it right when we're helping general practitioners. We give general practitioners guidance, at least by just making sure they can take the knowledge. I myself have the impression that there is quite a lot available and that we have done things as we had agreed. That's what I'm attached to, because a deal is a deal. If you would like to add another idea to that, you are very welcome. Actually, I feel like we're doing a lot of work right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u189	The minister mentioned the coalition Van Meaningis to the end, which also has a separate website and is aimed at supporting healthcare professionals. In fact, I would like to ask the Minister whether he agrees with the SGP Group that it is important that the discussion should not be isolated about euthanasia, but that it should cover the entire final phase of life. Otherwise, I'm afraid we could get a very one-sided picture.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u190	Sure. That was also agreed in the coalition agreement. I explained this earlier in the direction of Mrs Dijkstra, who had a question about it. We have said that we need to engage in a number of social discussions. This is perhaps not so much a discussion, but rather a conversation, a dialogue. That is why we have chosen the form, together with the coalition From Meaning to the End, of living room conversations and they are indeed about a broad range of subjects. They're not just about completed life and not just about euthanasia. Both too, but they certainly go wider, under the heading of dignified ageing, on all aspects that come to mind at the end of life. Of course, we also want to know how we can best support that conversation, without actively having that conversation as a government. What we have at least to do is to ensure that we have sufficient knowledge and availability. That is how I understood Mrs Laan's question. What we also have to do is to facilitate, support the social dialogue, which goes beyond just completed life or just euthanasia. It is a broader dialogue, which we are also engaged in. This is all about living-room conversations, here and there in the country. They should result in a final conference next year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u191	I agree that the full end is a very important issue and that the debate on it should also be wide-ranging. But we also notice that there is still a lot of embarrassment, including among doctors, to make the subject euthanasia discussable. In the first term, D66, together with the VVD, indicated that the Euthanasia Expertise Centre has a lot of casuism and also a lot of experience in guiding doctors. The minister's talking about making that professionalization hit. In addition, we can see that part of such a centre of expertise is still dependent on donations, for example. On the other hand, we see that there is embarrassment in general practitioners. So how can we strengthen that piece together to address that embarrassment, also looking at the important role played by the Expertise Centre Euthanasia?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u192	I think the centre of expertise has actually been a private funded initiative from the very beginning. What exactly is the need? In particular, the Life End Clinic or the Center of Expertise receives requests for complex cases of euthanasia, for example with a relationship with dementia or with psychiatry. The latter is perhaps the most difficult. In doing so, doctors feel shy. Let me say: that's not crazy either, because of course, these cases don't occur in your general practitioner's practice. So it's not surprising that you feel hesitation in that and that you at least want to have back-spoke. And you might want to get better information for next time. That role and task also fulfills the End of Life Clinic. In an earlier conversation that I myself had with the centre of expertise, I think it was also said: it might be a good idea if we were less called on because doctors would feel able to take those steps themselves. Look, everything contributes to that, so for example, the involvement of the Life End Clinic in an earlier case with which a doctor walked than under his arm. Case law also contributes to clarity. More knowledge contributes to clarity, in the examples I have just mentioned. So, frankly, I think that this professional debate in the sector is taking place incredibly, in fact, by doctors themselves. The question that I think we need to answer is: is it necessary to add something to it, or is it actually going quite well? I may also have to do the debunking that as I get into this job more deeply into this practice of euthanasia, I have become increasingly impressed by the incredibly precise and balanced way in which we have put all the checks-and-balances in that system. Everyone has a task, a responsibility, and very careful and conscientious decisions are taken. I think that the implementation practice of euthanasia legislation in the Netherlands is simply very balanced, and also in the roles and tasks assigned to it. What could be added to that was in the notebook medical ethics. And what was in there, we did.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u193	D66 shares that. The implementation practice in the Netherlands is still an example. But it is also good to look at developments in society. The minister says that the Euthanasia Expertise Centre originated from a private initiative. Sure. But you often see that at some point such a centre of expertise is very much questioned because of its wide and distant experience. Now we're talking about the professionalization slap. The centre of expertise has a lot of experience in making modules, with guidance, with coaching. Would the Minister still like to see whether it is not an obstacle to the centre of expertise being dependent on donations? Isn't this dependence an obstacle to bringing that guidance and care a lot further, something that I think we all want? I would therefore ask the Minister whether he is prepared to take another look at this and also consult with the Euthanasia Expertise Centre. Is that an obstacle to the performance of that task, which I think we both consider to be very important?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u194	I'd be happy to have the conversation with them, of course. I think it would be fine to have that conversation. That seems good, but in width: what is really the problem? I believe that the question of care, as Mrs Laan has put on the table, is: are we sufficiently helping doctors in their professionalisation? I think that's the question. They are not, of course, the only party to play a part in this. The NHG and the KNMG also have a role there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u195	Three hours and ten minutes. Oh, no. Cheers too early again. Mrs. Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u196	I have drawn attention to prevention in my contribution. More scope for prevention, not only in the Secretary of State's portfolio, but also in the Long-Term Care Act and the Health Insurance Act. I haven't heard from the Minister yet. We had a debate on Langer Home on 25 September. At that time, the Minister was much more explicit than he was now in his answers. He said, among other things, that it will probably be a legislative amendment, because I also think that prevention should simply be financed. That was a question from Mrs Bergkamp, Mrs Sazias and myself. So I was very curious when we would be able to see this change in the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u197	Mr President, the honest answer is that it has fallen into my oral set, by your gaze. But if you'll allow me, I'm going to give you the answer I actually wanted to give. I could have done so in many blocks, because the question has to do with the organization of care, namely to build in an incentive to make more preventive use of the Wlz. He certainly has something to do with the debate on nursing home care. If you couldn't let the neighborhood and the nursing home get together a little bit more, the question was... Yes. Fortunately, a lot is already happening, but the funding is sometimes in the way. Then where's he getting in the way? That is one of the bottlenecks that I am sure will emerge from the analysis. That is the bottleneck that the Long-Term Care Act, as well as the Health Insurance Act, always have as a funding parameter that the money is client- or patient-related. Since that's true, it's harder to serve clients who don't have a Wlz indication from that Wlz money. That all sounded very logical when we made the law, but now it's pinching. If we want to encourage cooperation, if we want to encourage the movement of bringing together the neighbourhood and the nursing home, then we must remove that obstacle. That doesn't just play here. This also applies to the financing of the coordination points for temporary stays. That's actually the same story, and it happens in a few more places. The same applies to these 100 places of disability care. If you want to start doing that now, and you don't have clients until next year, for example, how are you going to make those costs declarable? So each time the same element plays. So yes, I come up with a legislative amendment, but because it has to serve multiple purposes and must be able to provide the funding basis at once for all the costs you incur that are not client-related, and because at the same time you also want to solve a number of legality issues, it is not there for Christmas. We're really working on doing that right for a while. In the meantime, what we need to do is stick a little Band-Aid. Well, that's not so bad in health care, but it can't be a structural solution. We have to come up with this change of law. Let me promise you that I will mention in the two terms when it comes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u198	Then there's another point. We have now been allowed to listen to this minister for three hours. If I could summarize it, I would do so as follows. This is a minister who knows very well what he is talking about, who also has a clever debate with us Members of Parliament, because he is very close to us and often understands our points. That's nice. We find each other a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u199	Here comes a "but," Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u200	But, Mr. Chairman... You would almost forget in these hours of debate that there is really a lot at stake, especially for the elderly. We are not yet ready for the enormous task of caring for all these elderly people. This minister is not only a minister but also a Deputy Prime Minister. This is a minister who, I think, as I knew from day one, the complex health care laws we have are not enough to provide care for the elderly, even in the future. My question to this minister is: why did he not start to think up a better system for all those older people? Why does he choose to announce a contour note halfway through the journey which will bring him to the end of this period? With that he immediately, I hope, has the CDA election programme ready and can campaign immediately. Why does he not put the importance of the elderly first and did he not say at the beginning of this period "this problem is so big, I am going to work on it"? It may be that the coalition agreement states that we do not want a system change. It's possible that was the deal. We have on the dividend tax, on the children's pardon and on the gas extraction, so on all major themes, given that change is possible. If there is something important for the future of our country now, it is good care for the elderly. Then I think we should start working on our system in time, so that we can give good care to those older people in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u201	But so do I. Not only did I start the debate today, but I start this work about every day. I get up with it and I sleep with it. This is what we need to do. Nor is it the case that reflection on the future of the policy agenda or the speech of the throne has begun. Of course, we've been working on that for a long time. Why don't you go back to the movie? Take back the debates that have been held here in this house. Turn them back to the period just after 2015. Or turn them back to the start of this cabinet period. Then the atmosphere in the Chamber, Chamberwide, was: "A further system change, now? I don't think we should do that. The municipalities are still in the ropes, so let's not do that for a while, we can't handle that right now. Let us simply look for concrete improvements and solutions to concrete bottlenecks. Solve it, deal with it. Just do what your hand finds to do, looking at what it takes." That is also the reason for our programmed approach. In addition to the main agreements and the prevention agreement, we have opted for a programmed approach which, very specifically, seeks to respond to every great concern. That's what we've been working on. Why? Because laws and systems change. It always takes a while and before you have solved concrete problems, you are really a few years away. The fact that you have to amend a law should not be an excuse not to just get to work today with the bottlenecks that are asking for a solution today and can simply be solved today. A lot, that's my experience, can just be solved. You don't need a law for that. It never says in the law that you have to do unwise things, so you can solve a lot of things. We did do that first, didn't we? What I've seen is true, look back at the debates. This was the atmosphere, Chamberwide, after the 2015 system change: first a moment of peace at the front. And understandably, too. At the same time, in addition to solving bottlenecks in the here and now, we also know that we need to make a number of choices for the future in order to keep our care organizeable. We're not going to have that debate again. We have discussed this in detail. That was the reason to do what we did.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u202	We don't have to leave one to do the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u203	Agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u204	Of course, we must get right to work and solve problems that we can solve in the short term. But that does not relieve us of the duty to think from day one about how to organise care so that our older people will be able to make good use of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u205	Exactly. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u206	We are now halfway through the ride and only now the contour note is announced. My point is this. System changes take a long time, you can't wait for that. You could be doing that for four years. If we start thinking now about a new system that is going on, it was announced last Sunday in Buitenhof (Buitenhof), then we have lost two crucial years. Of course it'll take us a long time. In the next cabinet, we will have to work that out again. Before there's a new system, we'll be years away. My point is: we've just wasted precious time, and I really think that's a missed opportunity. This minister is a smart minister. He's a deputy prime minister. He can do even more than he does now. I've got him high, but that's what makes me expect a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u207	I actually agree more with all those words that always come before that 'but'. Again. It's really a misrepresentation of things. We started working from day one, with all the bottlenecks that asked for a solution. Whether it's about fraud, about (Ont) Rules of Care or about working in healthcare. From day one, we started working. In addition, we have concluded broad agreements and a prevention agreement. With all the assignments from the coalition agreement, we started work from day one. Also thinking about the future. But thinking about the future doesn't help people. With concrete solutions in concrete situations, we are helping people. Within the current system, a great deal is possible. I would not recommend an excuse in the present system for today's problems. Anyone who says with a glance at that system that he can't do the sensible things he should do right now, I'd like to invite you to think along with you. And yes, we also have some things to do in the future. That's why we announced that contour note. By the way, we didn't do that last Sunday in Buitenhof. It was just in the throne speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u208	This was the thirteenth interruption of GroenLinks and it will be the first of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u209	It seems as if we have come to the block of "missed questions" or "missed answers." I don't know if that's common, but maybe next time I'm gonna be a little less good and I'm not gonna wait until all the cubes are answered. It feels a little strange for me to interrupt now on a written answer that has been given. I'm gonna do it anyway. It mentions a website with examples of bringing pets to nursing homes. That's what my question was about. The answer does not really go into the question I have asked. There is a website that contains examples of animal entertainment. That's exactly what the Party for Animals doesn't want. Cuddling with chickens and live nativity scenes are called. I see that there is a busy nodding, but that is not the question that came from the Party for Animals. We know there are some nursing homes these days where it's possible to bring your pet. There's a lot of them that still can't do that. We do not believe that it should be possible at one time and not at the other. We just want criteria. Of course, we want the possibility to be available at all nursing homes, but let us set criteria with each other, and we will, of course, look closely at individuals and personal cases. It can't be that you're on a waiting list and it can be at one nursing home and it can't be at the other. It's very important for a lot of people to be able to bring their pets. I ask again the question I asked in the first term: how are we going to ensure that all these nursing homes apply the same criteria and look at them in the same way?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u210	A few things. One. Excuse me, I could have answered your question and perhaps I should have answered it in this set. Two. The last time we talked about this, a motion by Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen was adopted on which I gave a positive opinion. We want to provide personalised care, loving care and animals can help. We also want to say to each other: personal care is actually that care that is already given at home. Actually, you'd like to take home the living environment to the nursing home. Not a medical setting or a clinical setting in a nursing home, but a "as home as possible" setting. Animals belong to this, at least in my home there is one, but for some people there are more animals. Let's try to make as much as possible. That's what I've been trying to do. That's why I was excited about that motion. When I hear you now about criteria, I get less excited about them. This is exactly how regulation pressure is born in healthcare: by a motion that seems to translate a good idea into rules that are equal for everyone. Then we have to test whether people do comply with the rules, then we get casuism and it turns out that someone can't take his cat. And that's what we'll have to send in the inspection. Please don't! Let's just keep acting normal for a second and say, "It's really beautiful." As home as possible, very nice. Take your animals with you. Make it possible. I thought it would be my role, which is why I thought you'd be pleased with the answer, to reveal the examples of Dignity and pride that all nursing homes are well connected to. And we will.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u211	We are not necessarily concerned with setting new rules for nursing homes. We are specifically concerned with the case that you can take your pet with you at some nursing homes and you can't take your pet with you at some. You don't always have the choice of nursing home you go to. This allows you to be forced to give up your pet, while in the nursing home of your preference there was indeed the possibility to bring your pet with you. Why does one nursing home apply different criteria than the other nursing home? How can we ensure that all these nursing homes will open up that opportunity to bring a pet? We do not need to draw up new rules for this. The idea is that in this way we can give many more people fun in the nursing homes that are not the nursing home of their first preference.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u212	I'm glad you're saying it doesn't necessarily have to go along the line of new rules. That helps, very much. This means that it goes along the line of enthusiasm and giving good examples. I'll think about how we can shape that a little bit more. How can we put good, beautiful and practical examples even more on stage? I'll think about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u213	Since we've arrived at the other block, I want to...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u214	Completely against tradition, I didn't have another block this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u215	Then we'll create it, Mr. Chairman. I want to talk to the Minister about the situation of donor children. In the Netherlands longer and longer waiting lists are created for treatment in a fertility clinic. As a result, a lot of seed is coming from Denmark in particular. The Minister replied to my question in writing. In the Netherlands we have agreed good criteria: up to 12 women and in practice 25 children. Denmark also adheres to this when it comes to the Netherlands. However, the sperm of donors from Denmark also goes to many other countries. 80 countries I've seen pass by, even 100 countries I've seen pass by. That means you have a lot of half-brothers and sisters worldwide. That's incredibly overwhelming. The Minister says: I see no role for myself here. That's really up to the parents. I'm disappointed about that. We have done well in the Netherlands and we have set out the importance of the donor child. I therefore believe that the Minister should take responsibility for this and ask him to discuss this with the fertility clinics and perhaps also with his colleague in Denmark.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u216	No, I'm really not gonna do that. Let me be clear: we have indeed done very well in the Netherlands. I very much agree with you. There are very strict criteria, which have also been adapted over time. Whatever the origin of the seed, everyone in the Netherlands must abide by it, even when it comes to Danish donor seed. You ask: wouldn't you see a role for yourself in deciding in Denmark how to shape the law? No, of course not. We don't do that on any of the themes like that, do we? So I'm not gonna do that. If the question is to monitor the Dutch situation, then I can make that happen. But I cannot live up to the idea of deciding in Denmark how to shape their legislation. You can't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u217	I am not asking the Minister to sit in the chair of the legislature in Denmark. I ask him to defend the interests of children born with donor seeds and born in the Netherlands. That's what I'm asking the Minister. And then I have a follow-up question for him. In the Netherlands we have the SDKB, the Stichting Donordata Artificial Fertilisation. How is this foundation going to guide the children when they're looking for the donor? Can the Minister guarantee that the donor will always be found? Also because the organisations operating in Denmark are using pomelos to make it even more complex, donor seed that comes back from other countries. There are therefore other countries that supply sperm to banks in Denmark, with which children are born in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u218	That is perhaps a nice example of my rather negative response to your first question. We all want a perfect world, where everything, everything, everything is raked and exactly right according to our Dutch standards and standards. But it just isn't. What we need to do is indeed what you say: defend the best interests of donor children. That's done. In the law as it applies in the Netherlands, this has been done. With regard to the origin and everything we have agreed about the foundation, a lot has happened in the Netherlands. Very much was not good yet and there was still a lot to improve, according to the latest evaluation of the law. We are all taking all these measures, but they are all for the Dutch situation. So we can guarantee that. You ask if we can guarantee that you always know the origins. But if the origin is Denmark, and the donor seed is also from another country, then I am not going to give a guarantee, because I can imagine that there may well be a situation where you do not quite know it. But let us also continue to lay down some of our own responsibility with the parents, because they are simply there. There's a personal responsibility for parents. We cannot create the perfect and perfect world here with each other. However, we can do what lies in our own capacity to safeguard the best interests of donor children. I'm very close to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u219	Finally. I am pleased that the Minister wants to do his utmost to defend the interests of children born in the Netherlands. At the same time, he says we don't live in a perfect world. That's what I'm sharing with him. But he does point out that he is not going to talk to the fertility clinics in Denmark, nor to his colleague in Denmark, and that he is not going to put it on the European agenda either. That would be another follow-up question from me. I am very sorry about that. I am not going to make any further comment on this, but I would like to continue, together with the Minister, to look for ways to promote the interests and the right to identity of children, which is also enshrined in international treaties, even more effectively, born with a donor from abroad.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u220	Mr Van der Staaij on this point. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u221	On the same subject, because I support Mrs Dik-Faber's concern, also in relation to the media stories. My question is of a slightly different nature: do we really see that the conditions laid down by Dutch law are also respected when it comes to donor seed from abroad?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u222	Yes, certainly where the Dutch application is concerned, because then a form of supervision is also possible. If parents allow themselves to be helped abroad, we cannot see it from the Netherlands and then we cannot supervise it. So I don't. But when it comes to Dutch fertility clinics: they have to function under the Dutch law, which they have to abide by, so again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u223	But then we have the situation that everything is neatly arranged, if you choose to go for it in the Netherlands. In the meantime, a lot has changed since that Donor Data Act artificial fertilization. You can order it on the Internet tomorrow in Denmark and then all these guarantees suddenly cease to apply, while they are also in the interest of children born here in the Netherlands. The question is whether we can say in the practices that are developing, which we know through media reports and research: 'yes, we are not talking about'. I believe that in the best interests of the child there is also a responsibility for the Dutch government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u224	Sure, I can feel it too, but I have to be able to live up to it. We must also be honest, that you cannot control all the movements that parents can make around the world from a Dutch perspective. I just can't, even if you wanted to. I repeat what I said to Mrs Dik-Faber: the world is not perfect and it does not always succeed in monitoring, even though we would very much like to. We've had that conversation before. Often these are very complex themes. Then you would want anything to protect children, but we know that we often can't create much more than a dam, to regulate it within your own sphere of influence as well as possible. But yes, parents can avoid it. Of course you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u225	Maybe just one more practical point. I know that the first signatory to that law was the Minister of Justice at the time, so if I have any questions about the enforcement of that law, including with regard to foreign affairs, I can also raise them with the Justice budget. The question is whether all parents are also aware of the guarantees we have in the Netherlands, also in the interest of the child, and that they are sometimes not taken into account when ordering via the Internet. There is also the question of whether they are sufficiently aware of this, whether they are monitored. You can say you can't take care of everything, but is there a serious effort being made? Isn't that a point the Minister wants to focus on?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u226	Here again is the question: what do you suggest, how do you see it? If wishing parents themselves arrange an appointment with a fertility clinic outside the Netherlands or use the internet, how can you imagine that the government says: ho ho, beware, have you thought about these implications? I do not think that is possible except by providing good information and monitoring of the law, and we are doing so. How do you see that, just practical?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u227	Apart from good information and monitoring, the question is what happens to it in practice. I do not know how this information or information on how it is arranged and how important it is, including for the child, reaches wishing parents. I have no idea to what extent an attempt is being made to monitor this. On the basis of media reports, I get the impression that it is a bit of a black hole; if it goes abroad, then all these safeguards do not apply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u228	That's for sure. You can't create all kinds of guarantees from the Netherlands abroad, that's right. You are also not always able to create guarantees on what comes in across the border, of course not. But I'm going to do it differently, otherwise we'll have this debate for a long time. I know Mrs Dik-Faber would really want something about this. I also know you've been working on this for a while. Let me give you a letter to give you a closer look at this issue and clarify what is going on and what the limits are for what we can do. Of course, we want to do all the good for those donor children and do everything possible to ensure that they can find out their own identity later when they grow up. But there's a limit to what you could organize as a government. I'm going to write a good letter on that, so let's get back to the debate at that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u229	I'd like to support the Party for Animals. Of course, we have been arguing since our foundation for taking your pet to a nursing home. The Minister's answer was really a "difficult, difficult" answer. But I think I have a very easy solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u230	Look, I like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u231	In Article 8.1.1 of the Wlz, we regulated the right of residence for residents. That's been moved to an AMvB. So we're gonna take care of what nursing home residents are entitled to. In one of these articles you can take a shower, go outside, have a tasty meal or belief in life, and also arrange to take the pet with you. This AMvB can be easily adjusted without affecting the administrative burden. It's okay. It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u232	Apart from the administrative burden, this is just adding a rule, isn't it? Mrs Van Esch has just said: I understand that there should be no new rules. It went just as well. And now you're saying, yes, but we're just gonna make it a rule. So I'm just not for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u233	But everybody shakes no. Hahaha! No, you won't get away with this, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u234	It's just adding a new line, isn't it? You put a new condition in the law, the requirement that you should always be able to take your animal with you. That's a new rule, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u235	But that's zero administration, because then it says it's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u236	No, it's not about administration, it's about rules. It's about the accumulation of rules that people have to abide by. Can you also imagine that there is a situation...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u237	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We just want to get rid of the rules that create administrative burdens, but not of a rule that allows people to bring their pets. I think the minister just doesn't want it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u238	No. Well, not along the line of a rule with a fixed requirement: you will, you must always... No, I didn't. What I do want, I have just said to Mrs Van Esch. I actually thought she was more excited about that. At least, you have encouraged this to become less so. That's how it goes; that's how it goes. I think it is a very good idea. I think it's a great idea. It fits perfectly well with personalized care. But we are not going to include everything that is beautiful and good in the context of personal care in legal regulations that we ram the sector into? Then we're not gonna do that, please?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u239	Tuttuttuttuttut! In the right of residence we arrange basic things for nursing home residents. That they can go out. May they take a shower. I can't believe they're getting tasty meals. That their beliefs are being considered. And why not their companion too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u240	Yeah, well. I'd love it. I'd love it. I want that conversation to be held and I'm going to put all the good examples in the warm sunlight. All of them. But for once, let's not make a legal demand. Let's surprise ourselves one time and not do that one time, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u241	I'm getting extra woke up now anyway. Of course, there's no other way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u242	See ya. That's what you got.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u243	Yes, thank you very much to my PVV colleague. That's great. Of course, I could just go with her. I don't think this is increasing the regulatory burden. This is indeed just a basic need of many people to add to existing laws and regulations. I don't think that's creating rules at all. This is just a real need for life, a pleasure of many people to continue at a time when they may not always enjoy life very much. Going to a nursing home very often means that at that moment everything doesn't work out the way you wish it would. This could make a positive contribution. And if this is the method of doing that, but you think 'we absolutely do not agree', then fortunately there may be more parties here who are willing to make a fine motion on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u244	What I'm about to do is boost this. You were just excited about that. You also said: no, we should not want new rules. We're gonna put all the good examples on stage. That was the homework assignment I gave myself, encouraged by you. We're going to see what we could do, because we think this is a nice interpretation of personal, loving care. That's what I promised. Then you said: I also understand that we should not create a new rule. Now you're thinking, "Well, maybe just a new rule." And that's what I'm saying: no, please, don't do that. We shouldn't want to put everything we like and love for ourselves or good and nice and beautiful for our mother in the law right away tomorrow. That's not... That's not how you're supposed to bring about laws here, is it? We shouldn't do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u245	I'm gonna interrupt one more time, and I think it's just a very short interruption. So it's not a new rule or a new law. That's just been reported.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u246	Yes, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u247	No, it's not. Nothing's being created. Something already exists. So there is no new rule or law. This does not increase the control pressure. So it is a shame in itself that it is viewed that way. I do not think I can get rid of it much more than that at the moment. I'm still very happy with the commitment that's been made, you know. That is very nice, but I think we can move much faster in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u248	I thought we were going to dinner...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u249	Absolutely, absolutely!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u250	But we still have an entire animal uprising at the interrupting microphone. The member Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u251	I'm the one who filed the motion, on behalf of the Party for Animals back then.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u252	Absolutely!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u253	That was two years ago. You thought it was a very sympathetic motion at the time. You still think so. At that time, you already made a commitment to get the best practices from those healthcare institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u254	I did!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u255	They would then be shared. I myself had a very good conversation with ActiZ and with care institutions that are already doing very well. They also want to apply this and ensure that other healthcare institutions do so. I would really appreciate it if the Minister were to bring that to the attention of the wider public, as requested by the motion unanimously adopted by the whole Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u256	That is the case, and I very much support it. I still wholeheartedly support the "judge chamber" I gave at that time. I've been working on it, too. The examples have been picked up. Look on the site dignityentrots.nl/something-what-I-not-can-reproduce. At least it's something with "animals." So we're on it. There are a lot of great initiatives taking place. There are a lot of nursing homes that make it possible. But look, if you make a rule of it, it becomes a right. And if you make it a right that you can always bring your own dog, that also means that that dog needs to be taken care of. As a nursing home you also have to guarantee the safety of other residents, and not with every dog you can guarantee the safety of the other residents. Well, how does that work with a rule like that?! Don't do that! Let's just use common sense. So I'm not in favour of a rule. I am for making as much practical as possible that you can take your animal with you. "You had me at hello," I'd like to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u257	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u258	That's from a movie!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u259	I think this is a somewhat less sympathetic response from the Minister, I must say quite frankly. I would really appreciate it if the Minister looked at what is possible, rather than saying now: this is not a good idea, because sometimes it is not possible. It was meant as a Christmas present for the elderly and for people who are less well-off and for whom it is very annoying that they have to go to a nursing home for example. And then they'd have to give up their animal. I would like to ask the Minister once again: would you like to have another conversation with ActiZ, so that this gets more attention?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u260	Locking up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u261	Sure, and more than that. I have just promised this in the direction of Mrs Van Esch. We're gonna do more than that. We're going to put all the good examples on stage... with animal and well!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u262	Thank you. At 8:00 p.m., we're gonna have a belly-up with Minister Bruins. Until then, I wish you enjoy your meal!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u263	Box-K is complete. The Minister has the floor if the "visit" can say goodbye. Mrs. Ellemeet? Thank you. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u264	Thank you, Mr President. There's been a lot of discussion. In my introduction, I would like to address a few issues: joint decision-making, the Data Exchange Bill, the Ambulance Care Bill and the acute care sketch - that's the third thing - that's the third thing - and fourth medicine. Then I would like to highlight one or two subjects, briefly, from all the contributions from the political groups. Then I would like to discuss the amendments. Then I've done justice to that, too. Mr. Chairman. Over the last few days, I've thought back with a smile a few times to a man I've known well. It's been almost ten years this week since he died. He has had a beautiful life and a long life; he has become 86. That wasn't actually in the cards. This man got around the war he was about 15 years of diabetes. The doctor advised him to enjoy life especially, because he wouldn't grow old anyway. He did enjoy it, and the beauty is: he also grew old, because medical care developed faster than his disease. Diabetes became more and more treatable. The pig insulin was replaced by synthetic insulin, blood sugar levels could be measured more accurately and medications could be better and better adjusted. The complications that sometimes make life with diabetes so difficult, such as heart disease, blindness and amputations, were less and less common. This man, I'm talking about my father, and thanks to medical progress, I had a more than beautiful life, just like many other Dutchmen. There are now more than a million people with diabetes in the Netherlands and many of them are just participating, living in their own home, having a family and having a job. Medical progress continues. Pa Bruins hasn't experienced it anymore, but more and more people with diabetes, especially children and young people with type 1, have an insulin pump and a continuous glucose meter. Pumps have already been proven to reduce the risk of complications. The artificial meat gland is going to help with this in the future, so is the expectation. Mr. Chairman. The medical stand has achieved a great deal in many more areas. For many cancers, the duration of survival has increased, making cancer more and more a chronic disease. Take breast cancer, for example. In the 1950s, five years after diagnosis, only half of the patients were alive, in 1995 they were more than three quarters and now almost 90% of the women diagnosed with breast cancer are still alive after five years. They see their children or grandchildren grow up and hopefully they can get a lot of beauty out of life. Fortunately, there are a lot of examples to mention. I think that's fantastic. I am very grateful to our scientists, doctors, nurses and all those other caregivers for this. Mr. Chairman. I call this because we must not forget how great our concern is. We get compliments from all over the world for that. But we also have a big challenge. Now that so many diseases are well treatable and sometimes preventable, and now that we can live longer and longer, we make different demands on our health care. Care demand is changing and increasing, costs are rising and staff shortages are palpable, including acute care, and this is only a harbinger of what the care as a whole is facing. We therefore need to organise things differently, better and smarter. For an increasingly large group of people, care is no longer about the hospital bed, but about care at home, about guidance, about controls, about as pleasant a life as possible with disease, and increasingly about an okay life with multiple diseases at the same time. This requires low-threshold care, preferably at home: measuring your blood levels yourself, monitoring remotely and a specialist consultation at the GP around the corner. The hospital remains important for people who need it, but the fact that elderly people are now sometimes in a hospital because care at home is not in order is poignant. It's possible, and it's got to be different. If you have all kinds of ailments, it is crucial that your caregivers are in contact with each other and work together, so that the right care after a hospitalization is found quickly and so that you don't have to tell your story over and over again, but also for safety. Think of the many mistakes that are made in drug transfer, which makes for 27,000 avoidable hospitalisations per year. If medically there is as much more as possible, it is crucial that you as a patient know what your options are, what results you can expect in your situation and that you can take part in the decision. Mr. Chairman. I want all Dutch people to continue to reap the benefits of our fantastic health care, of the progress that never stops, even now that the demand for care is growing sharply and also when we have to do work with fewer people. And I'm committed to that. This brings me to a number of issues that are on the agenda next year, which I would like to go into a little more detail: deciding together, the two legislative proposals on data exchange and ambulance care, including the sketch of acute care and medicines. Mr. Chairman. First, decide together. Mr Raemakers, Mrs Ellemeet, Mrs Laan and Mrs Agema spoke about this. I think it is important not only to decide together, but also to take it for granted. 'Cause it should be. What happens to your body and your members, that's up to you. The doctor knows all about the treatments and you know everything about yourself and what matters in your life. Those two need to get together. Just now that the medical possibilities are greater than ever, joint decision-making is essential. When's care gonna be okay? When does care contribute to a better life? It's different for every patient. I am thinking, for example, of cancer treatments. Thanks to medical progress, it's not like it used to be: one size fits all. What's good for one patient may not be good for the other. Serious side effects and complications from surgery, chemo and radiation can be acceptable, even if it only lasts a few months longer, but it may not be the case for everyone. What if you have kidney failure? You gonna go for the transplant or the dialysis? Home dialysis is a solution for many. Or is it so restless at home that you'd better come to the hospital for dialysis? Mr. Chairman. That is why we discussed here earlier this year in this Chamber the Medical Treatment Agreement Act, which provides for patients to be allowed to expect their healthcare provider to decide together. This amendment of the WGBO will enter into force on 1 January. I think that's a great thing for the patients, but that doesn't mean we're here yet. Decision-making together also requires different conversational skills of the healthcare provider. And deciding together can only be possible if patients have access to understandable information about the different options and the results they can expect. Not "what are the treatment options?" But "what's good for this patient?" So not "what's the matter?" But what matters to you? When you hear there's a 30% chance of complications in surgery, what do you do with it? You want to know what your chances of complications are. And you want to know what the experience of other patients was and what they chose. By measuring what treatments actually have an effect on the quality of life of patients, the following patients can make a conscious choice. They can compare themselves to PatientsLikeMe. For example, if treatment in your age group often leads to chronic pain, it is something to think about and discuss alternatives. Mr. Chairman. That kind of information must be clear and available, preferably for all diseases. But first of all, together with the parties to the main agreement on medical-specialist care next year, we will present the results for the diseases that together account for half of the disease burden, i.e. which have the greatest impact on people's lives. So half the disease burden has been mapped out with outcome-oriented information. We will also launch a campaign in the coming year. That is to say, the Patient Federation and we are so that patients know what they can decide together and how to do it. And we organize an overview of choice aids. That was a question from Mrs van den Berg, among others. Special attention will be paid to people who are less able to have the conversation with the doctor, for example because they are less able to read the information about their illness. In addition, in the training of young new caregivers, but also in the follow-up courses of sitting professionals, we will pay more attention to that decision together, both for the doctors and for the nurses. What else is there to do in the coming year? In the coming year, we're going to discuss the bill on data exchange. I've often set the example of that doctor from the hospital in Deventer, who said, "I know where the digital highway is." According to him, the digital highway was the A1 between Deventer and Amsterdam. Between Deventer and Amsterdam... Because of the patient who needed a follow-up treatment in Amsterdam, he had to put the data on a DVD, so that the patient's belly really could take it to the hospital in Amsterdam. Then as a doctor in Amsterdam, you can't prepare for the surgery that's coming? Isn't that a waste of time? We live in 2019 and unfortunately that example of the digital highway A1 is not a fictional example. I'd like to take care of those DVDs. That's why next year I'll give you a bill to secure and speed up the electronic data exchange while maintaining everyone's privacy. We recently switched it into an AO: patients must of course have given permission to exchange their data. Over 13 million people have already done so, but 4 million have not yet done so. Maybe conscious, but maybe unconscious. Suppose they get into a situation where they need emergency care, for example after a traffic accident. A situation where every second counts. Then it is vital that the caregivers are aware of, for example, drug use, allergies, weight, age and blood type, to name just a few things that can affect treatment. I would therefore like to quickly arrange that, in addition to the choice to share or not share medical data, there is a third option, namely that the most necessary basic data about your health may always be requested in acute cases. Of course, people are still free not to give permission to do so. But specifically for this emergency, I hope to come to the Chamber with a proposal for an arrangement. If it has to be in a law, but if it can be in lower regulation, I'll do it through lower regulation. But I think it's important to make this quick. That's one bill. The second bill I would like to present to you in the coming year and discuss with you is the law on paramedics. I've been talking a lot to the ambulance sector lately, as you know. I find it incredibly good how the sector manages to carry out more and more rush trips. I'm looking in paramedics for a model that guarantees the availability and quality of the ambulance care, with the patient's best interests first. That is why I come up with a legislative proposal in which current providers are granted an indefinite licence to provide ambulance services in their region as the sole provider. That bill can be seen separately from the sketch for acute care, the charcoal sketch I have mentioned earlier, which I have also promised you for next spring. Mrs Sazias rightly called for attention to be paid to the whole of acute care in the Netherlands. The quality is high, but there are bottlenecks in the organisation. You have heard in the first period that we are thinking about a contour note, but as a building block, a preparation for that, I would like to present you a charcoal sketch earlier on about the design of the acute care landscape in spring. A number of ingredients are the following. I'm thinking of the idea of a matrix. This has already been said in this Chamber, by Mrs Van den Berg and Mr Slootweg, if I am not mistaken. The very complex multi-trauma care, for example after that serious traffic accident, is organised in a large hospital where all expertise is present. For the less complex acute care, for example the sprained ankle, it is important that you can get close to home. I also think that in the future a lot of acute care can be provided at home, for example by the community care department or by an intervention team, which comes to you, so that you may not have to come to the hospital at all. Mr. Chairman. I also think it's important that people know where to go. That's why I'm gonna see if there's any kind of care coordination. In my words, a kind of control tower where you call one number. There you will see what you need, if you can stay at home, if someone has to come to you or if you have to come to the emergency station. I think that such an outline of acute care also involves thinking about a form of funding that fits in well with that. Mr. Chairman. Those are the ingredients I want to include in that sketch on acute care. I understand from your Chamber that your Chamber, too, has asked for a letter from the Health and Society Council. I would like to see if I can make use of it so that I can respond to it in substance. Mr. Chairman. The third point is the medicines.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u265	I don't know if the Minister will come back to it later. However, since he is now talking about acute care and emergency services and finds that I have drawn attention to them, I wonder whether he would also consider turning emergency aid into a non-economic service of general interest in his charcoal sketch.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u266	That's a very good question. I put it a little more generally by saying: I want to think about the form of funding. I will therefore go into the question of why the acute care should or should not take place in a NEDAB form.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u267	When are we going to get a ruling on this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u268	In that charcoal sketch in the spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u269	In the spring?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u270	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u271	I am, of course, pleased that the Minister responds to our request to look at such a single-number control tower for all acute concern. We would very much like to see that further developed. I was wondering what exactly the Minister in this charcoal sketch is going to do with our request to take more direction. We have proposed the care director and Minister De Jonge has just indicated that he wants to take the lead, but this was a lot about neighbourhood care and long-term care. I would like to know from this Minister what he will do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u272	So I'm gonna have to think about that for a while. I have arrived at about the same point as Mr De Jonge when it comes to the degree of direction and the way in which you can best organise it. The fact that I come up with this sketch is at least a sign that I want to organise it and that I think that this involves a more active role for the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u273	In recent years there has been a balding in hospital care and a lot of emergency facilities and departments for acute obstetrics have disappeared. Now we have some very big problems, for example Flevoland and Lelystad. If an acute delivery is to take place there, pregnant women are sometimes an hour away before they are in hospital. Hoogeveen is also a major problem because of the large distances that women who have to give birth acutely have to travel. Will the Minister in the charcoal sketch also address the problems there and will he also seriously examine the option that hospital care is simply brought back to level and that in Hoogeveen, Lelystad and other places a full hospital can simply come back?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u274	I do not want to see a sketch in which I see the Netherlands region for region. I'm offering you a sketch of how to take care of acute care in the Netherlands. So I'm not going to put that in every case in those charcoal sketches, but if you're going to read the charcoal sketch, you have to be able to formulate an opinion on how to organise acute care in the Netherlands in a future-proof way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u275	The Netherlands is incredibly small. We know all the hospitals and we know all the problems. If the Minister comes up with a charcoal sketch or whatever he wants to call it, if he just comes up with a plan on how he wants to organise acute care, acute hospital care, then it should also be possible to conclude on the basis of that proposal: that means that in Hoogeveen acute obstetrics comes back, which means that in Lelystad acute obstetrics and emergency aid come back fully? That shouldn't be so hard, right? That's what people want to know, isn't it? Otherwise, it's gonna be an empty shell or an empty promise, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u276	I have just said what I think are a number of ingredients for such a sketch on acute care. Then I'm talking about a matrix idea, where you distinguish the very complex multitrauma care from less complex acute care, and where you can also say that maybe in some cases with an intervention team acute care can be organized at home. Mr. Van Gerven wants to go back to that hospital every time. I am trying to say that if we want to have a future-proof organisation for acute care in the Netherlands, then we will just have to look a little more broadly. That is incredibly exciting, because we want to provide this care for the future, and that means that we also want to take into account, for example, the human resources issue as we know it today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u277	I was just thinking about this concept. We have discussed with the Minister earlier about the fact that in Hoogeveen, for example, there are two stops a day from the hospital. We will have a further report on the impact. I hope that the Minister in those charcoal sketches also wants to take with him how he's going to do that. We also mentioned earlier that for example in the middle of the Randstad, in Woerden, there is no GP at five o'clock. Can I assume, then, that if the Minister says "I want to make some sort of sketch," the locations where care would be logical will spread a bit equally across the country? Not that anyone in Zeeuws-Vlaanderen has much less chance of getting complex care somewhere in time than someone in the heart of The Hague, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u278	I see it as the beginning of a sketch on acute concern that you want to arrange and continue to arrange it for every Dutchman. That must be well organised, not for the short term, but for the longer term. In doing so, we must not close our eyes to the organisation of the whole, because we have not resolved the issue of staffing tomorrow. It's really gonna be... What are you asking here? Where are you organizing what? Then what is this highly specialized hospital and what is less acute care? What could possibly be done at home and who then provides this care? How do I achieve that as a patient? These ingredients must indeed be covered, but it is not the case that it will be a ticket in which we have signed all the emergency services and general practitioners' posts and all those things. To channel expectations, I would like to make it as concrete as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u279	We are, of course, also concerned that it is currently the healthcare institutions, the healthcare providers, which determine where this acute care, emergency care or the general practitioner's office is located somewhere. I hope the Minister will be aware of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u280	Sure. Oh, yeah. I know very well that now care is being bought. That will also have to be an important point in such a sketch, because what we want is to ensure acute care for everyone, and I do not mean insurance in the sense of premium insurance. No, I mean that we ensure that it is accessible, that everyone is confident that this acute care in the Netherlands will also remain well regulated for the longer term. That is what is of great importance to us. I understand the concerns and the anxiety very well. That is why we must try to provide insight with a matrix......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... What do we mean by a "weeppost" or a "hip" or a "hip+," and what it's all called. I would like to try to clarify that and discuss it with you. I think we should take a step forward on this point. This was about the sketch of acute care. That is one of the themes that we will be discussing in the coming year. I would like to make another point, which is about medicines, including the words of Mrs Ploumen and Mr Veldman. Mrs van den Berg also spoke about it. I have just spoken about the care that can be provided close to home, but we also have seriously ill people in the Netherlands who need highly specialised care and innovative medicines. The healthcare system must also be robust and provide security for them. We can't let holes fall in that safety net. I therefore find the sometimes explosive rise in drug prices worrying. That's high on my agenda, as you know. The shortage of some medicines is also a thorn in my eye. I want to stand here with the patient. My commitment is and will remain good medicine for a reasonable price for anyone who needs it. That is why in the past year I have been working on actions to tackle expensive medicines, by adapting the Medicines Awards Act, through intensive negotiation of those expensive medicines, by strengthening joint procurement through the Platform Purchasing Power Expensive Medicines and through international cooperation in the Benelux context. So much is happening. I count my blessings, but I do realize that much more needs to be done. That is why I will work in the coming year to further strengthen our negotiating position and to encourage the use of biosimulars. Companies that are not transparent about their high prices, I want to put in the spotlight by name. But I would also like to pay attention to the appropriate and effective use of medicines. This is in the interests of both the quality of care and cost control. Of course, you all know that we cannot solve the problems of medicines as a small country with a limited market share worldwide alone. This calls for an international approach. That is why I will actively contact the new European Commission and the new Commissioner, Mrs Kyriakides, in order to get the availability of affordable medicines high on the agenda. In the mission letter that EuroPresident Von der Leyen wrote to Mrs Kyriakides, access to affordable medicines is the first priority. So I'm assuming we can hang out in this together. In addition, I continue to work with other countries at drug prices. Think of information exchange, health technology assessments and, where possible, joint negotiations. In addition, we started this week, with nine countries, with the International Horizon Scanning Initiative, allowing us as countries to better prepare ourselves for the arrival of new expensive medicines. Finally, Mr President. The growing shortage of medicines in Europe is also an important cross-border issue. Together with European colleagues, we are looking for ways to be less dependent on production sites, of which there is sometimes only one in the whole world and sometimes far away in countries. Should we not therefore, for example, increase the production of medicines in Europe? I would like to respond positively to the question that has been raised. This is about medicines in general.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u281	Negotiations with manufacturers and market forces have not led to acceptable prices in the pharmaceutical sector. Look at new expensive drugs. Treatments sometimes cost €50,000 to €100,000 per patient per year, despite the efforts of the minister, especially in the international field. Now we are also blessed as a country with a lot of innovation and research capacity at academic centres and medical faculties in the Netherlands. The SP has put forward a proposal for a research fund that is self-absorbed. The Minister said that I am not going to do that. Is it true that there are negotiations or talks going on between the Ministry and a number of scientists to arrive at such a fund?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u282	I said I think it's an interesting idea, but I don't want to do it now. Because in my opinion, when I can be specific about that, I have to have answers to questions. I have listened carefully to Mr Van Gerven's proposal from the SP Group. This is about phase III research, for example. This is work that is now funded by private parties. So I think you should think very carefully about whether you want to cut that off as a government. For it will not be Mr Van Gerven's intention that we should go into the cash of the pharmaceutical industry. So it is the question under which conditions the Netherlands should finance research in phase III situations. So I think it's an interesting idea, but it's coming too soon. But I'm thinking about things like this. As far as I'm concerned, it's about research, it's about education, it's about the patent side of the whole, it's about the involvement of other departments. I think this is something not only for VWS, but also for Education and for EZ. So there are a lot of different sides to it. So if Mr Van Gerven asks if it is true that there are scientists and people from VWS thinking, then I say: that happens all day.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u283	It is positive to hear that there is development and that there is no categorical 'no'. However, I would like to explain what you should be thinking about in Phase III research. A university or an academic centre conducts that research itself, and also has the patent itself or asks for it itself once that phase III research has been completed. If it is patented, then that university can also set conditions about a real social prize itself. This may also mean that it does not have to be very large groups of patients, because they are often very specific medicines for small, specific groups. I'm sure I'd like to give that to you anyway. And I would like to say on that point: to be prosecuted.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u284	Actually, there's hardly any question in that anymore. So the idea is definitely something to explore. That's what I'm doing, as I said. But also medicines for small patient groups are often about large amounts of money and large risks, because this trial study must be done carefully. I've got a lot of things to weigh up on here. Should we do something that private parties can do? I refer to the choices that need to be made. I mention the involvement of other departments. But at this point, thinking is not at all stopped; I admit that to Mr Van Gerven grif.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u285	I've been talking about overdose in my contribution. With the eleven most expensive cancer medicines alone, 277 million were overdosed in 2015. With modern techniques, we can adjust the dosage much more purely. That would give a hell of a lot of money. I would like to hear another response from the Minister. How does he intend to proceed on the road of personalized medicine, especially for cancer patients?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u286	Mrs Sazias' question was about overdose. That is a very important point in this House and we discussed it earlier this year in the context of the Past Use programme. We all want medicines to be handled carefully and not to be prescribed too much. We all want not to take too much, I say homely. This is precisely what the research programme Healthcare Evaluation and Custom Use, led by Repping, focuses on. I am going to tell you a number of times in the coming year about its progress. This does not apply specifically to cancer medicines, but to broader ones. But the point was made quite rightly and also discussed earlier in a debate. I think we really need to do something about overdose.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u287	But it's about the personal thing. It varies from one person to another. We can start putting on new protocols again, but it is precisely that each body is its own universe and reacts differently to a medicine and a dosage.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u288	As far as I'm concerned, these are two things. One is overdose, where too much is used. That's separate from the fact that one patient is different from the other. When it comes to personalised medicine, we see a lot of developments over the past fifteen years. That goes very well, in the sense that we can look more and more specifically at what dosage, but also what medicine and how it is best for the patient in question. We all think that's the fantastic side. The other side is that personalised medicine also needs to establish that it can be used safely and that its effectiveness has been proven. It's very easy to say "let's get that organized." It's extremely complicated, but it's so interesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u289	I think it's not that bad with the complexity. I agree with the Minister that it is more than extremely interesting. So I really hope you want to keep this on the top shelf in your head.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u290	Sure, but I'm just saying, this is really incredibly complicated. I would love it if we could all say that if we need tailor-made medicines, but even if it is for very small groups, it must of course always be placed on the market safely, patient safety must be at the forefront and the effectiveness must be proven. This is not only necessary for large groups; this is also necessary for small groups. There's my nuance in the story.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u291	Now that Mr Repping's name has been mentioned, I would like to remind the Minister once again what I said yesterday in my speech. That committee has found that more than 1,300 treatments are superfluous, and I am also saying a little domestic... but are still being reimbursed by the health insurance companies. What process does the Minister intend to initiate in order to prevent treatment that has been classified as superfluous by a group appointed for this purpose from still being reimbursed? Because that's how hundreds of millions of care money are wasted.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u292	Of course, that's too crazy for words. You did put that point down yesterday. The best thing, of course, would be for those health insurance companies to do their job properly and buy well. You're asking what the trial is. Well, here's the deal. Repping started this year and will deliver an interim report in a number of months. That's what I'm gonna go to the health insurance companies and I'm gonna say, look, couldn't you guys take advantage of Repping's advice? I'm just saying a little homey now, but I think this is the route we need to take. Because the fact that there are excess treatments that are paid for first is super awkward. More than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u293	Well, we're getting off to a good start. I couldn't agree more. Mr. Chairman. Speaking of the health insurance companies, we have just heard from Minister De Jonge that the cabinet is coming up with a contour note and that I am also saying that the role of insurers is to be considered as neutral as possible. I would like to ask Minister Bruins whether he thinks that insurers are not taking up their current role well enough and should therefore be included in the outline note. Or does he think they should actually have a different role? How does he look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u294	This is, of course, the exercise "what should we say about the contour note?', While we still have three to talk about in the preparation. I was delighted to listen to the debate earlier this day. Part of the debate was about the system. I believe that we have a very nice healthcare system in the Netherlands, with a lot of private parties and public conditions. We are constantly adjusting the public framework conditions, which means that the private parties will behave differently. At least that's what we want. In exactly the same terms, I have previously switched this towards Mrs Ploumen in an AO. Take one of those paramedics. Is that tinkering with the system? That might be possible, but I think we are doing something good, and I would like to present it to you. I believe that this can be done in the existing system. There are private parties in that. Not all paramedics are private, but some are. It's full of private parties in our healthcare system. It's the GPs, the pharmacists, the logopedists, the physiotherapists. I just hope that all those parties will continue to work in this care field, please. With all kinds of system stories, I'm a little worried that people don't like working in care anymore. We don't have to go that way. The fact that there is something to choose and that all these private parties have a role to play in this, seems to me to be a good thing. What we need to get rid of is what Mr De Jonge said about this. I thought it was okay that they are grabbers, people who color outside the lines, apert, people who fuck up. We have to deal with them. That's why we make the rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u295	Sure. Of course, we totally agree, but that was not my question. Let me put it a little more clearly. Does the Minister agree with me that the power of the health insurers with the way it is organized now is too great and that this does not always serve the interests of the healthcare providers and patients as much as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u296	There are, of course, issues that we need to discuss with health insurers all the time. We believe that fewer policies should be used, that information should be improved, etc. "Go on," I hear you say. So we're writing a contour note. Those health insurers are certainly mentioned in that, but I do not think it is wise to disqualify them. On the contrary, I am very keen that we should have additional suppliers on the Dutch market and that new insurers should come here. I'm only okay with that, because then there's something to choose. However, this information must be made transparent to the citizen. That is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u297	It was just about Mr Repping's research and also that there is a lot of overtreatment in Dutch hospitals at the moment. That is why the Minister is working on "the right care in the right place." He's mentioned that a few times. A lot of transformation budgets have been made available for this. I looked it up. In April 2019, 1.5 million had been spent, while 70 million were available. So that's 2%. If you go through that all year round, you're going to be about 30 million out of 70 million. So there's a lot of money left on the shelf. So the Minister's idea of proper care in the right place is not quite working yet. The Minister writes in the reply that the NZa will repeat the monitor on the basis of final contracts, with 1 April 2020 as the next reference date. When I read that, I thought: April 1...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u298	Frog in your butt!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u299	It's not a joke, but it's now late October. Now that we have the budget, we see that we can't get the money for the transformation at all, while "the right care in the right place" is the minister's most important project. And it's not until April that we're gonna check it again. Can the Minister promise that in November or December we will ask the NZa to set a reference date so that we can check whether the money is being properly spent?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u300	The amount discussed is the money for transformation. I'm just saying in your direction, Mr. Chairman. It is a budget in the order of 400 million over the entire duration of the main line agreements. That's an incredible pot of money. I wouldn't say: if the money is gone, then the right care has passed in the right place. That's not how it works. We've got it. I'm saying it's a little bit plastic... as a kind of budget reserved for if the transformation doesn't get going fast enough somewhere. Sometimes we can get something started or speed up by means of financial resources. I do not mind the fact that in the first few months there has not been so much of that budget exhausted. I am certainly not going to push insurers to get the money through quickly, because then it will be all over by the end of the year. I think it is important to see sufficient initiatives. Luckily, there's more and more of them. Maybe they're not all necessarily invested with money. That's just precious to me, but where necessary or helpful, those transformation fees are available. In response to Mr Raemakers' concern about whether the money is being spent, I say that the money does not all have to be spent. The right care in the right place can also be initiated in a different way.Sorry about the jargon, I had planned to speak practically and without abbreviations and jargon. For example, if we need help to get the general practitioner to work more often in the hospital or to have the specialist more often in the general practitioner's practice, and that requires some transformation money as a lubrication oil, that is available. In this sense, I will certainly talk about it in consultation with insurers. Better still, we have regular consultations with the parties to the main line agreements. That is where I shall raise this point. So I'm a little more careful about rap spending that money.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u301	That seems to me to be a good commitment to record in advance. I would also like to comment on the argument. The money doesn't necessarily have to be spent on me either. When I see these amounts, I have doubts as to whether that much money is needed. We have the budget for care. That's a lot of money in it. But there are also many wishes from several parties. If the money does not have to be that much in one area, then I think that as a politically speaking budget we have the task of checking it again. We can do that a little sooner than six months from now. So I would like to stick to the question as to whether the Minister can explain to me why 1 April 2020 is only the next reference date. Why can't we just ask the NZa to do it on December 1st? They're gonna have another poll after all. Then we can look at it in the context of, for example, the Spring Paper: we thought we needed 70 million for the first year, but it doesn't seem to be that way at all. Then we can adjust.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u302	That date was chosen because I want the NZa to monitor the expenditure on transformation funds in that previous year after the expiry of a single year. It is now October and this is month numero ten of the first year that we have that money available. Again, I think it'll be a flywheel. After the end of the year, the NZa can monitor how much of that budget has been collected. So we will have that available on 1 April next year. And the year after again and the year after again. The budget right is on your side, but I would be very careful to say: if we are now ten of the first year and we have not yet spent the money, let us take some of it off.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u303	No, no, but we need to measure early.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u304	I think you should measure after a year's arrival and then April 1st next year seems to me a very good measuring time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u305	It is good to hear that the Minister shares the concerns expressed about the growing dependence we have on countries such as China and India in the production of medicines and that we need to address them. It is true that the new Commissioner wants to take steps in this direction. It is good to hear that the Minister wants to work with his European colleagues. I would encourage him to make contact with the French Minister at least in order to take joint action. It has already announced a number of concrete steps. It's nice that that's going to be done. I had also asked the Minister, along the lines of personalized medicine and the towering prices behind it, to look at other funding models, so as to ensure us in the future of good medicines, good treatments and personalized medicine, but in an affordable way. I understand that the Minister did not arrange that for a moment tomorrow, but I would like to hear from him what steps he sees for himself to take along that line of funding and pricing too, to ensure that all the care and fine techniques there are with each other in an affordable way within our care for the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u306	Yeah, it's two in one and so we shop a little bit. I'm getting a little off the layout of my contribution. I'm about to pick up again by taking one theme out of each group. However, I would like to answer these questions. First of all, on the dependence of China or India. Over the last few months, I've been more careful about expressing myself. I am more concerned with the dependence of one country acting as a monopolist. Of course, it's never the country, it's a company in that country. If it is very good what that country produces, it is very nice, even if it is China or India. But it's the dependency that matters to me. I think we should have that discussion. In a recent trade mission to India, I had the opportunity to speak to the parties there and throw out a little fish: is it possible that you will also be producing in other countries? In Europe, for example? Then come to the Netherlands. Those ideas, of course, are quite discussable. I know there are all kinds of follow-up questions attached, but I find them very interesting. I know that my French colleague, Agnes Buzyn, also has an eye and an ear for this. What matters now is that we get this issue high on Mrs Kyriakides' agenda. The first reports are hopeful, because she has received a beautiful mission from Mrs Von der Leyen. Then the point of personalized medicine. It is actually difficult to give one answer to that. I have already said that I am considering whether we should set up a fund for such a phase III situation. That could also be an ingredient. Perhaps, in some cases, you should make other agreements on the orphan medicinal product regulation, which exists at international level. That could also be an ingredient. New possibilities may also arise at the point of self-preparation. I see several possibilities, but all with a great question mark behind them. I see several ways to see if on the one hand we have the innovation that is needed to continue this new personalized medicine with strength and on the other hand ensure affordability. So I'm calling you three ingredients now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u307	I agree with the Minister that, when it comes to dependence, it is primarily about not being dependent on one production site in the world. Preferably you can see that slightly spread out so that, if something goes wrong somewhere, there are other locations that can produce those medicines. But I also asked the Minister yesterday what this means if we also pass the geopolitical measuring bar. Is not the availability of medicines, in a sense, also a form of vital importance? These are more production sites, but I think the geopolitical factor is also an important one. I would like the Minister, in his work, in which he ensures that this dependence is as small as possible, to take that geopolitical factor with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u308	Absolutely. Actually, that's another question next to it. Certainly, I think that this vital importance of drug production in Europe can be recognised. One of Mrs Van den Berg's questions was also to conduct a study on availability in the Netherlands. I think a very active contribution from the Netherlands is very important. I would like to be an advocate, an active advocate, but I think we should organise it at European level. I think that is incredibly important, but that space has not been seen at European level in recent years to organise this. The admission policy in the technical sense may have been done together, but the reimbursement systems are organised nationally. The fact that Europe saw a very small task for itself when it came to medicine has become me. I think there should be a shovel at this point. Mr. Chairman. Now I'm getting to what I said earlier. I would like to take one theme from the contributions of all the groups and discuss the amendments. First of all, from Mrs Agema's contribution. Mrs. Agema asked when the human size will be back. I have put a great deal of emphasis on the concept of joint decision-making. That is perhaps a very general concept, but it is at the heart of the matter that one patient gets good treatment from the doctor by deciding on the treatment together. I've had this discussion with Mrs. Agema before. She finds "the right care in the right place" a very general and great understanding. But sometimes I need to mention such a general concept, because it includes a multitude of initiatives. With the right care in the right place, this is for example the chronic patient who can contact the hospital, the GP or the nurse via video calls from his home address. I would very much like to use those precise examples that are organized close to people. I think that the patient who uses the image bells always feels taken care of. If he's short of breath, he can make a quick call to the health care provider. That is an example of the right care in the right place. So sometimes we talk about these general and great concepts, such as deciding together, personalized medicine and the right care in the right place, but it is of course about what we can take care of and where we can make it better for the patient, the citizen, the human being, at the individual level. I am well aware that we sometimes speak in container concepts and that this makes it seem like a system or system is central. But I want to work deeply on making a difference in terms of good care for all individual people in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u309	Interrupt number 14 for Mrs. Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u310	I certainly do not doubt the intentions of this minister, but I do have a great fear when it comes to the right care in the right place. I have also outlined the contours of a specialist starting for himself, in the neighbourhood, and what he will be dealing with, such as 93 conditions of inspection and 400 organizations, from suppliers to know what. None of that's a problem, so you're still having fun. Then you initially work for 70% of the price. You can do all that, too. And then the insurance companies come to mess things up. They come with an extra discount, one for 20%, the other for 40%, another for 50%. And then it's gonna be hard to pay the bills. Then it's gonna be hard to keep that little practice running in the neighborhood, because you also have your staff, your rent and your licenses. There are a lot of specialists who have all had to go to trial, right up to the Supreme Court. And then there's an amount that I haven't verified, but the minister probably knows better than I do, of 3 billion in bills that the insurers haven't paid. I have been told that they are now going to the Minister, but I would very much like to hear the Minister. Instead of the High Council saying to the specialists: pay, the insurers say: we will go to the minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u311	I don't think the specialists you have in mind have yet turned to me, but they might. Door's open, coffee's ready. I will therefore tell you that there is a bottleneck at the funding facility, but first I need to hear what that bottleneck is, under circumstances, an experimental title at the NZa to see if there is an alternative way of financing, as I wrote in the reply earlier today. It's not gonna be that easy, but there are possibilities. If I can clarify it to the people you have in mind, I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u312	I am not talking about extra money or transformational means, but about specialists starting for themselves, in the neighbourhood, exactly as the minister wants. They do so at 70% of the rate and they can do so well, but then the insurers, the bullies, with an extra discount................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. That doesn't mean it can't be done. This whole experiment, the whole thing of care in the right place, the specialists from the hospital and the neighborhoods, is destroyed by insurers. There's a trial going on until the Supreme Court. My question to the Minister is very specific. There's a rumor circuit about insurers standing on your doorstep for a law change, to get those 3 billion in receipts, which they just didn't give extra to those specialists who follow your plan for the right care in the right place, from the hospital in the neighborhood. My question is very specific: what is the Minister going to do? Does he give the insurance companies zero on the bill, in the hypothetical situation that they come to him, if they haven't been to him yet, if they say there's 3 billion in receipts, which they don't want to pay to those specialists? Is he saying it's not gonna happen, this is the plan, 70% of the price, because he wants a good deal, or is he gonna make a law change?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u313	What's the Minister gonna do? First of all, he is going to look into this situation for a moment, because there are countless examples. I do not know the example Mrs Agema mentions, but I know countless examples of how it works very well for a specialist to have a consultation period in a general practitioner's practice. That goes to good satisfaction. I have examples of several places in the Netherlands where I have seen this, in the Middle Netherlands, the South Netherlands, the West Netherlands. I'm very optimistic about that. Mrs Agema gives another example. I need to get into that first, to see if that's an incident or something structural.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u314	I can count very well to 15. If you want to send a letter, I'll be whispered.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u315	Is that your role, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u316	That's whispered to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u317	Mr. Chairman. I have already said that I would first like to look into this case, because I think that is important. I have examples from Maastricht, from Uden and here from The Hague, of specialists who come from their hospitals and keep their speaking hours with general practitioners. That is a form of effective care. This is to the great satisfaction of all three sides: the hospital, the general practitioner's practice and the patient. I like those examples. Mr. Chairman. So I'm gonna talk to you about one question right now. I am sure that I am failing everyone, but so many different issues have been raised. So I'll take one out of everyone's contribution. The second group to speak, the VVD, spoke, among other things, about the e-health applications and the cost-effectiveness of such digital innovations. That multitude of innovations, that there are going to be a lot of innovations, is a beautiful thing. The VVD Group's question was whether I could make an inventory of proven effective or cost-effective digital innovations and e-health applications. I'm gonna pick up that glove. So, yeah, that's what I'm gonna do. So you get an overview of digital innovations such as telemonitoring and image bubbles. The example has come out a lot in the previous budget debate. But that doesn't mean it's just inventory. Here I see a role for the task force for healthcare communication and digital care. I would therefore like to make it a top ten or something, so that you can get the best-proven innovations out of it, in the sense that the attention of the insurer, the patient and the health care institution will also go to that. So I don't want an inventory to inventory it. I'll just say it this way. Mr. Chairman. I would have liked to make a comment on the medicines in the direction of the VVD, but I have done so. Mr Veldman spoke briefly about the shortage of medicines, which we are increasingly confronted with. Next week there will be an AO on drug policy. We have talked about international measures, but I would like to talk about the Dutch measure to deal with this deficit by imposing the obligation to have a stock. I hope to send you a letter this week on behalf of the AA which will take place next week. Let's see. The VVD Group had not tabled any amendments. I now come to the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. One point made by both Mrs Dik and Mrs Ellemeet was about reducing CO emissions in healthcare. We have incredibly many different issues. It is already special to highlight the CO issue. Mrs Ellemeet knows that we are sticking to the climate agreement. To this end, we have agreed on the Sustainable Care Programme. Many parties have already developed various initiatives under the heading "green deal'. Then we are talking about circular work, about drug residues that end up in the water and should not end up there, about a health care environment with healthy food and that kind of thing. I think it is important to make a point of this. I also welcome the comments made by Mrs Ellemeet and Mrs Dik. I think it is important to stress here that this is happening from the bottom up and that we do not impose all kinds of new rules. Here's what I need to get off my chest. Mrs Ellemeet made a comment on the multi-annual contracts between health insurers and hospitals. I'm just a little bit more positive about that. I see it's really happening more and more. I will come back to that later. For example, there's even a contract between a hospital and a ten-year-old health insurance company, I don't know if it's already done, but it'll come to an end. I really think that's a partnership. I think that's a good development. I hope we can see that more. I'm going to tell you that, too. That contracting policy is also monitored by the NZa, so I might be able to show you that. Mr. Chairman. There was another question from Mr Renkema about the general practitioners and the doctor for the mentally handicapped. There's a bottleneck there. Mr Renkema was right to do so. In a small-scale institution or at home, it lacks those mentally handicapped people in good general care. I say it in my words. I understand that these two professions, general practitioners and doctors for the mentally handicapped, now wish to consult each other. I think this issue is important, because everyone has the right to good general care. I am not sure whether there is any unwillingness from the general practitioners' group, but I am going to ensure that I support that consultation. I'd like to organize that so I can inform you about that. If that results, I'll send it to you. I intend to see if we can really do that in the next few weeks, this year. I spoke briefly with Mrs Kalsbeek a few weeks ago about this. I'd appreciate it if I could give you a heads-up on this before Christmas. That is what GroenLinks is about. Then I'll go to the CDA, Chairman. Oh, just about... I see several spokesmen moving towards the interrupting microphone, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u318	You were starting a new point, weren't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u319	Sure!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u320	So I wanted to line them up, but then you stayed quiet. Anyone want to respond to the previous point? Mr. Slootweg's about to sit down, so I'm not gonna look at him anymore. Relax, relax.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u321	Perhaps Mrs Ellemeet is through her interruptions, but I'm not sure. In any case, we have made a point together about the issue of sustainability and care, not because we do not consider the quality of care for the patient the most important, but because we also see that young doctors in particular need it. The Minister himself writes this in the answers to our questions. He also says: "I am not concerned with the completion of the training courses, but I can check to what extent the sustainability statement is part of the training. I can also encourage the training institutes to think about this." I think that is a very good commitment. I would like to ask the Minister whether he would like to inform the Chamber on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u322	Yes, because I think that should always be done with a commitment, but then you should give me some space to see how I'm going to do that in practice. But if I write that down, I'll follow up on that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u323	I understood that the Minister had all sorts of things that GroenLinks brought in yesterday. Then I would like to ask him a question, if only because Mrs Ellemeet is through her interruptions, but also because Mrs Ellemeet and my colleague Hermans recently called for nurses to be represented on the boards of health care institutions. A good answer has been given in writing, namely that the Minister, together with the professional association of caregivers and the professional association of internal supervisors, wants to see how this can be done. But I'd like to ask him to go a little wider. For example, include the NZa and the IGJ, because they also have images and ideas. I would therefore ask him to go a little bit wider than what the Minister has given us back in the written reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u324	Mr Veldman is quite right, and Mrs Ellemeet made the point earlier today: the role of nurses cannot be underestimated in any healthcare institution. It will be checked whether the voice of nurses is properly heard. I think that could be broader than just a seat on the board. Not every institution lends itself to this and not every seat on a board of directors is equal, in the sense of statutory and non-statutory chairs. Mr Veldman asks if I would like to broaden the question a little, so that that voice is properly heard, including through management. I think it's very important that we get a look at that. I'll wait. Is there a pause melodie? I see that Mrs Ellemeet is talking to Mr Veldman. Mr Veldman asks me to involve NZa and IGJ. I don't see exactly what they're supposed to have in there. I love a lot of people at the table, but it gets a little full sometimes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u325	If you're doing an interruption on behalf of someone else, it counts double, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u326	I would ask the question, especially on my own behalf, if only because Mrs Hermans has worked hard to do so. I am asking this because the NZa and the IGJ do interfere with the quality framework and governance. Therefore, they could also play a role in monitoring. That is why I am asking for it to be a little broader than the two groups that the Minister has now identified.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u327	Well, come on, it's been 9:15, so I do; but this shouldn't be a government thing. I want to get these practical experiences; that is where the strength lies for me. If there's a raid from the IGJ or the NZa, alla, then we'll take it, but it's got to be him that nurses know how to appreciate themselves and that the decision-making body of the care institution can be contacted. That is the essence, but with the word 'governance' Mr Veldman is pulling me over on this point. I see Mrs Ellemeet walking to Mr Veldman again; should I turn on the pause melodie again? Mr. Chairman. Then something in the direction of the CDA. I would like to make one more point about the health assessment and proper use, because Mrs Van den Berg made this point in this debate and also in AO's. What I find an exciting task for that program led by Repping is that it looks not only at what needs to be out of the package, but above all at what needs to be in it because it is proven effective. That's what I'm really excited about. I therefore believe that what should and should not be scaled up. I hope to get an answer from Repping as well. I think I have mentioned the example of the farm of Campina. Campina came to us in the village to praise milking machines. You could get that milking machine at a very advantageous financing rate, but the condition was that the milk cans went out. That mechanism is lacking in care. I hope that Repping's appropriate use programme will help me to see if we can make better choices with the results of efficiency.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u328	I am glad to hear that the Minister also uses the word "scaling." Can I conclude, then, that the Minister is also prepared to come up with legislation in the event of an emergency in order to prevent the thousand flowers from blooming everywhere and that, therefore, the proven effective care is not being applied?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u329	That's a little too fast for me. We just agreed to get Repping to make a plan, an agenda. First of all, I would like to see a few results to which I can draw conclusions. Maybe it should be in the form of regulation, maybe it should have something to do with funding, maybe it should be in a different way, but the words I use do not look forward to letting Repping's programme be non-binding. Mr. Chairman. Then there were two amendments from the CDA Group. I would like to give my opinion on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u330	I have another question on another point. The Minister responded to a point by Mr Renkema regarding those AVG doctors. That's the doctor for the mentally handicapped. My question is about the GP. I fully understand the Minister that he is trying to reach a solution before the end of the year, so that people with learning difficulties can also have access to the general practitioner. But what do we do in the meantime? 'Cause in the meantime, they're entitled to a GP, right? Then how is that gonna be fixed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u331	Everyone has the right to a doctor. Do you know what to do if you can't achieve it? You'll call your health care provider. Then he'll make sure there's another GP. But that is of course only an emergency connection, because it is of course best to have a general practitioner around you, especially when it comes to the people we are talking about: people with intellectual disabilities. Of course, it's best if we could offer them a regular GP. So there is no waterproof answer, except for this process answer that you can always make sure that your health insurance, and therefore your health insurance provider, is available to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u332	Thank you. I don't know if that answer reassures those people completely, but I feel like we should do it. Following on from that question about doctors for the mentally handicapped in primary care, I have also asked a number of questions about the specialist on old-age medicine. It's about the difficulties they're having in getting signed. All of a sudden, health insurance companies are demanding that they should be a legal person, that they should not give that care at home. It should be ready by November. I see that there is just a lot of unrest about this contract, especially because it is requirements that, for example, do not apply to a general practitioner. If we want to be able to provide good care for the large number of elderly people who are at home, then we really need to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u333	That's more of a statement than a question. But you know that by organising care in the first line by means of the Health Insurance Act, that is what is being done. The contracting process with the specialist in old age medicine is now taking place for the first time. After that first round, we will see what results will be achieved. We will see the first results of this in the contract monitor of the NZa, also in spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u334	I hear Mr Slootweg saying 'why'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u335	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u336	No, because we're already at 15. And that's why.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u337	Mr. Chairman. Then there are two amendments from the CDA. The amendment in part No. 20 is about increasing the budget for National eHealth Living Lab at the UMC. Earlier in my speech, I spoke about the question: there are so many different apps; how can we offer something of choice in those eHealth applications? It could be through that National eHealth Living Lab. That is why I am giving the amendment judgment, Chamber. Then there is the other amendment: the amendment on item No. 28 on digitisation of care in the region, submitted by MPs Van den Berg and Veldman. I've had to think about that for a while. We'll get that digital data exchange law next year. Then it must be possible, of course, that is not yet ready at the time when the law is ready in this Parliament that, on the basis of uniformity in language and technique, that information is exchanged between caregivers. That's very good. You could say, "We'll be there." If I have read it correctly, this amendment sees that in a region of the Netherlands it is being looked at whether, if that information exchange is possible, that exchange actually takes place there. That's how I read it, and I see the petitioner nodding. Then I think I'm also linking "judge chamber" to this amendment. Then I come to the questions asked by the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u338	I would like to ask a question about the previous amendment. We've had an extensive AO on the data exchange. It turns out that ICT companies are actually frustrating this transfer. If we are going to separate this money, are we not going to make these ICT companies happy again? They just have to open that. They can.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u339	This is about the core of the law we are discussing next year. That's where I started my answer. This exchange of information will soon have to take place on the basis of uniformity in language and technology. Technology is about common standards. Those standards must be used by everyone; every IT company. Then they'll have two options. They follow the standards that are going to happen according to the well-known NEN standard; that is known to each company and they either join in, or they don't join in. If they don't get involved, they're gonna run out of business. Because I am sure that every call for tenders will soon be asked: supplier, come up with products that meet the NEN standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u340	But it is not so easy, when it comes to ICT, to say: get lost, I'll take another. 'Cause for starters, it's two big guys who own the market. Next, you've already invested so much with such a supplier. It's a billion-dollar investment that you just can't say anymore: I'll go to another.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u341	I don't know if it's easy, but if we regulate it by law, and that's what I'm trying to do, the suppliers will have to jump through the hoop of the legislator. Then they have to comply with those standards. That's the heart of the law. The language is also very interesting, but it is about the uniformity of concepts. But this is precisely the point about standards that suppliers have to use. If they don't, they're out of business.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u342	But we're talking millions here. Is that going to end up in the pockets of those ICTs who are already making absurdly high profits?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u343	I have now talked about the law, because that is what your first question was about. The amendment concerns a choice aid to be organised. That does not come in the pockets of IT companies, but is intended for the National eHealth Living Lab of the UMC. I would have stayed with the SP Group. I am referring here to Mr Van Gerven's question about the general practitioner who has to look for care for patients with an acute care question. He says, "You shouldn't have to take him out of his office." That information just needs to be available. I agree. Information should be available, for example for that patient who needs a temporary stay between hospital and home. We've switched that into one of our AO's before. For this purpose, regional coordination points should be set up so that the general practitioner knows with one phone call where there is room between hospital and at home for that patient. So he shouldn't keep calling endlessly. In any case, the regional coordination points are set up. We've made sure of that. So that's step one. What doesn't work well enough is how it works. I think there's even more information... They need to be operating systems per region. There really needs to be more energy in that and that is what is going to happen. This concerns the question of care of a patient who reports to the general practitioner and who may not have an acute care question. In addition, it is about acute beds and an acute care question. We have asked the National Network of Acute Care, the dome of the ROAZs, to take the initiative and set up a system to exchange that information for acute hospital care. They are thinking about a solution and I expect a working method to be found by the end of the year. In both acute care and non-acute care, it should be possible for the general practitioner to call a coordination function quickly and easily. Mr President, first of all. Then I will look at the SP amendments. If I'm right, I've...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u344	................................................................................................... 12 on the pharmaceutical fund of Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u345	We are dealing with the amendments to the Rules of Procedure. 12, 13 and 14.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u346	The amendment in part No. 12. I am not in favour of setting up a pharmaceutical fund now, because I am not yet there. I have explained in detail why this is too early for me. If this had been a motion, I would have asked her to hold. But it is an amendment and I have learned that you cannot keep amendments. For this reason, I would advise against the amendment, because I have previously expressed my sympathy for the idea. The amendment in part No. 13 is in my wallet, too. That amendment concerns BIG II. That has no way through, and isn't it better to use that money to support re-enterers? That's 5 million dollars. I do not recommend that amendment because I want to do scientific research to see whether and how function differentiation can contribute to finding care personnel. I think it is important to do that research, and so I want to use that money to do so. The explanatory statement to the amendment states that this money can be used to find more new colleagues and thus to reduce the workload in the sector. I would like to say that we have a much larger pot of money available for this, namely the Sector PlanPlus funds. There is more than 400 million in it. That is why I reject the amendment. The amendment in part No. 14 is in the portfolio of one of our colleagues. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to three brief questions from the contribution of D66. Can the Minister indicate when the experiment will start regular weed cultivation? I'm just checking where the questioner is, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u347	I think I'm gonna use a blow to get into the mood.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u348	Who's naked?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u349	Not "in the nude." I said, he's having a smoke.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u350	Oh, you're using crazy words. I'm glad you're back, Mrs. Vera Bergkamp.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u351	We're here!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u352	We're here. The question was whether I could indicate when the experiment would start regular pot growing. I understand this question very well. We'll discuss next week's bill that goes with the experiment in the First Chamber. Then you know that we are going to start preparing the test, the experiment, with the aim of taking the decision to start the transitional phase within this cabinet period. From that transitional stage onwards, the resources produced under the experiment are available in the participating coffeeshops. So from the preparatory phase, I'm sorry: in the transition phase, coffeeshops are already opening, and we expect that at the earliest in 2021, but we are making so much progress that all efforts are aimed at making that possible in the first quarter. Mrs Bergkamp knows all this, but she would very much like to have it recorded in the Acts. That has also given us this clarity. I would point out that, of course, legislation and regulations still have to be completed. That's not that far. Farmers must then be designated, who must also be able to provide sufficient quality hemp and hashish. We have a lot to do to make it to that pace. That is the wish of the questioner, but the matter must of course also be carefully prepared. The questioner knows that too. Then there is a question from Mr Raemakers about AYA care. To put it domestically, Mr Raemakers has argued that the AYA network may be under pressure and he really wants to ensure that there is a future for that network. I took a leap in the written reply that I asked the academic hospitals to use their public infrastructure for the continuity of activities such as AYA as part of their academic care availability contribution. As far as I am concerned, therefore, they must retain this attention for a long time. I am sure that the questioner will keep that theme alive with us, but without it I can well imagine this question. We'll keep our finger on the wrist there, too. That's two. The third question, the last one in D66, is about ergotherapy and therefore agreements to be made on activities to be carried out so that the Healthcare Institute can give a new advice. I'll speed up those activities. I'll take steps. I will ensure that this progress is made exactly as I indicated to you this afternoon. That progress will remain there as well. Mr. Chairman. Then I have two D66 amendments. One is about releasing an amount for clinical research into recovery operations in female genital mutilation. No matter how difficult the subject is, and with that you could say: however noble the purpose, I would like to advise against this amendment. I believe that this research should be completed first. The Healthcare Institute is working on this, at least now the Association for Obstetrie and Gynaecology and then the Healthcare Institute. So we don't have that guidance yet. The Healthcare Institute has not yet been able to respond to this. In any case, it is too early to reserve funds for research. Maybe it's not appropriate either. With all caution, since we are talking about a very vulnerable group of women, I would like to advise against that amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u353	My party, D66, has been paying attention to this for years. My colleague Pia Dijkstra started this five years ago. Last year I tabled a motion, together with another colleague, Sjoerd Sjoerdsma, on the need for clinical trials for female genital mutilation. That was a year ago. Over the past year, I have looked at how the Minister has now started doing this and whether these clinical trials can be carried out. I just don't want us to lose another year. That is why, frankly, I do not understand why the Minister is dissuading this amendment. We gave the order a year ago as a political party. Everyone in the House of Representatives agreed to do those clinical trials. We are a year later and the Minister says the answer will come on 1 November. Then I think we should make sure we get it done for next year. Because if we do not include it in this budget now, we can settle it in the spring note for the budget of that year and then we have a year's delay in those clinical trials that we said last year they should be there. Does the Minister understand my consideration in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u354	I'm sure I understand that. I hope the opposite is the case. In the order of things we first need a guide on the basis of which these trials can be designed. The motion that served here last year and was adopted, I am implementing. That's why I suggest you wait for that guidance. I expect it around November 1st. Then I'll contact the Healthcare Institute. That is the order of things and now it is too early for me to reserve money for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u355	The question is, however, how does the Minister see it that this delay might lead to these women, who would like to participate in this investigation, perhaps having to wait a year. We just discussed another topic, where it was about 400 million. I asked the minister if we'd get that money up, and then he said, "If we're left with something, it's not so bad." I don't understand. This is about very vulnerable women. If we reserve 1 million, we can start these clinical trials or other forms of research as soon as possible in 2020, whether in February or in April. That's what D66 wants. Let us now reserve the EUR 1 million. What argument could you possibly have against that humanly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u356	You asked me on motion to set up these clinical trials. This requires a guide first. I have given all these answers in writing. I have even said that, as far as I am concerned, we do not have to wait a year, but let us look at this in the spring decision-making process. I've been trying to round it up a little bit. Let's not do it now, but at that moment. Spring begins in March. I also had an amendment from D66 and the VVD to make a sum available for the Transparent network care programme of the Dutch Federation of Cancer Patient Organisations. I would like to give this amendment to the Chamber because there must be support for cancer patients. But also here caution, because of course we make a choice for a group of patients. We're not gonna play anything, we're not gonna play anything, but we're gonna make a cut, and we need to be aware of that. So I had to think about it for a while, but I think it's okay. There must be room for this oncological care and support for patients, also because it is becoming increasingly complex, to free up such a sum. So much for the questions put on the side of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u357	Thank you for allowing the Minister to give that other amendment judgement Chamber. I have another question. It's about diabetes. I was very impressed with the start of the Minister's speech, telling him that his own father told that life story and also that he had diabetes. I find that a very moving story. But there is also a discussion about a medicine that can help diabetics better. We have already asked the Minister whether he would like to instruct the Healthcare Institute to also investigate the continuous glucose monitor for diabetic patients. Now the Minister writes to us in the written answer: I would like to ask the Healthcare Institute to also investigate CGM, but I must first get the response to that other means, namely FGM. But the Minister also writes that at the moment all those involved at the Round Table Diabetes care are already talking about CGM's position vis-à-vis FGM, and that they are already looking at how they relate to each other. So, frankly, my group does not understand why we cannot ask Healthcare Institute to start research on CGM already. Can the Minister explain why this should necessarily delay the other investigation? I don't see why that should lead to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u358	We also discussed this question with an AO. In fact, I had saved it for the last speaker on the side of the Chamber, Mrs Van Kooten, because she also touched on this subject. The point is that there is limited research capacity. That is why I said in the AO: don't let us take two forms of research together, so that there may be a delay for that flashglucose meter. So I proposed that we complete the investigation of that flashglucose meter first. When this will be concluded, Mr Raemakers asked for it. I said: well, count on the results to be available by the end of this year, and next year the other research can take place on the continuous glucose meter. So because of a limited capacity, the choice was made to complete the one first. That's what they're doing. Then we'll have the other investigation. So it's not a question of not doing it or putting it off. Not at all. We also know about this debate at the Health Institute and we know that the question is coming. But here's the reason.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u359	In my view, this is the very last interruption allowed to our group. I would also like to clarify the question. Can the Minister therefore confirm that the position of the Health Institute on FGM will come before the end of 2019, as the Minister wrote in the letter to the Chamber in July? And can the Minister confirm that that investigation of CGM can start immediately at the beginning of the new year, i.e. in January 2020, and immediately after the conclusion of that other research, and that the Minister will ask the Healthcare Institute to do so? All those diabetic patients in the Netherlands, who really want to make use of these resources, really know that the politics, the minister, the Health Institute, everyone is on top of this. Can the Minister undertake these two matters?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u360	The first commitment concerns the completion this year of that FGM study on the flashglucose meter. That's exactly what the Healthcare Institute is planning. So, yes, that's what we're going to do, and so I think that's what's happening, knowing the Healthcare Institute. Then one can then, in the new year, start preparing for the other research, about the continuous glucose meter. So I do not want to leave that unclear, because I know the wish of practice. In view of the time available, I should like to discuss a number of amendments tabled by the PvdA Group. First of all, I come to the amendment to item No. 17, to free up budget for better salaries for care workers. I would advise against that amendment. In recent years several collective agreements have been agreed and concluded in the care sector: in Zvw-zorg, ggz, vvt and university medical centres. For 2019, a contribution to wage and price development is available in the order size of 1.7 billion. That is what it has to do with, so there will not be an amount, as proposed by the amendment. At least I'm deceiving the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u361	Well, I'm a little disappointed by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u362	Luckily, it's only a little disappointing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u363	It's a lot of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u364	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u365	And it's also about something very important. It's about the people who work in care. I just said yesterday that there was a great deal of labour unrest in the sector. Almost every sector of healthcare has already been in action. On 20 November there will be a big meeting in Nieuwegein, because there will be no decent collective agreement for hospitals. We have also noted earlier that the number of people leaving care is greater than it has ever been. We have provided for our amendment, as we always do as the Labour Party, with cover. It comes directly from our counter-budget, which was complimented by the Prime Minister on its solidity on Princess Day. He just indicated that it's a matter of making choices. In this amendment, we choose the people in care rather than the reduction of corporate tax. What do you say as a minister to all those people in the care who doubt whether they should stay or who are already on their way to the back door? What do you say to those hospital workers who don't get a decent collective agreement? It's gonna take and it's gonna take, and it's gonna take. There's a possibility of making money for that. You could choose to do that. You won't do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u366	First of all, what do I tell the hospitals? We talk to the hospitals very regularly, namely with the main lines of agreement parties. They are part of one of those main lines of agreement. All the parties we are discussing on the main medical-specialist care agreements, including hospitals, are still behind the agreements made. They still support the limited growth of budgets. Good. I'm glad you did. I am not saying that they have an easy task, but at least I have their commitment to the implementation of those main lines of agreement, including the agreements on budgets. I'm big on that. I think it's pretty. It's not easy, but I'm pretty sure that signature's good. Against the people who work in care... Then the question is: against which people? There are, of course, a number of groups, of which I have just mentioned the ggz, the vvt, the umc's, and I am sorry that I am speaking in this way about groups of people in the care sector where all collective agreements have been concluded, within the limit of that large amount of the ovals, which is 1.7 billion this year. In other sectors of care, including health care, it has been possible to make multi-annual agreements, with fine percentages and a long-term duration ranging from two, two and a half to even three years. I can't say "will we add another shovel of money" while on the other hand we just made all kinds of arrangements? We're not gonna do that. That is why I do not recommend this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u367	Pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u368	I'm trying, Mr. Chairman. I think we still have seven questions left out of 15.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u369	But that's not an obligation, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u370	No, no, I know. This hasn't been pointy for a long time, I realize it. The amendment is not only going to apply to hospital staff. The amendment is broad. I have just heard the Minister say 'I say this to the employers in the care: glad that there is a broad agreement and that you still want to leave your signature underneath'. In fact, you say to the workers: sorry, you have to look at your employer and if he cannot conclude a proper collective agreement, you should not be with me. That is not really a message to a very large group of people who, as the Minister himself knows, are ready day in and day out for all of us when we need it and are currently leaving the sector massively? Minister, you can't come up with that on November 20th if they're going to take action.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u371	I hear that it is in Nieuwegein; I had actually counted on the Malieveld. But that's news to me. Of course, the government contributes with these ovals. So that 1.7 billion is a lot of money. The rise in healthcare costs in the coming year is largely due to wage and price developments. There is therefore also additional money available for next year. It's so arranged from the ovals. And yes, for collective bargaining, employers and employees have to work together. Mr. Chairman. The amendment in part No. 23 is about resources to invest in doctors' assistants. I would advise against this amendment. The amendment aims to provide financial space to invest in medical assistants. It is a bit like the previous answer: the same oval space is available for the collective agreement development of doctors' assistants. Medical assistants can also use Sector PlanPlus agents. From Mrs Ploumen's speech the sound sounded to look specifically at necessities for medical assistants in the region. Then we'd be much better off looking for budgets in the Sector PlanPlus funds where necessary. Whatever it takes, we'll look at it together with the LHV. In a number of regions we, LHV and VWS together, go into the region to see what is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u372	The paramedics have been here this week and they know very well what is needed. I would like to say to the Minister: talk to the Dutch Association of Doctors' Assistants and not just to the general practitioners. When doctors say that it is no longer possible and that patient safety is compromised because there are shortcomings, I would like to give the Minister: talk does not fill holes. Those women are here for a reason. It may be the first time in their lives that they abandoned their patients and went to the Binnenhof. It is really too easy to say that we are going to speak in the region. I'm sorry, Mr. President, I think the Minister really leaves people in the cold.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u373	I'm also talking to doctors' assistants, even then I'm telling this story. I'm gonna say it again. Medical assistants can also use the resources of Sector PlanPlus. There is a very large budget available. If it can solve bottlenecks or if it can contribute, it must be sought. That is not very general and it does not apply to the whole of the Netherlands, but, exactly what Mrs Ploumen started with, in a number of regions, the problem is more serious than elsewhere. In these regions, it should be considered first of all whether funds from this large budget of the Sector PlanPlus can be mobilised. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the amendment to item No. 27. This is about a bridging arrangement for child care rates. I would advise against the amendment with similar arguments as I have given earlier. There is already the Sector PlanPlus grant scheme with a lot of budget in it. That's available now. There's nothing to wait for, it's available now. That can be looked at now. At the same time, you know that the NZa's cost research will be completed sometime in the coming year, so that it can possibly provide adapted rates in the following year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u374	I'm very aware of that, of course, of that investigation by the NZa. That is why I asked for a bridging arrangement, because the insurers are not prepared to use the max-max fee as a bridge. The insurers refer to VWS and VWS refers to the insurers. Meanwhile, the babysitters are empty-handed. And then there's the Sector PlanPlus. It is true, of course, what the Minister says, that that is available. But there are a few problems. The training for caregivers recognised by the industry is only partially reimbursed through the Sector PlanPlus. The training which is reimbursed according to the Sector PlanPlus is a three-month training course. I hope everyone can still follow. It doesn't lead to a baby carer who can start working on his own right away. As a result, deficits will only be resolved in a much longer period than is necessary. I repeat: some babysitters have to take care of three families in one day. This is not in line with the task they have given themselves, nor with the duty of care we have with each other for babies and novice parents.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u375	I recognize that point. I have also discussed this extensively with the profession. I also drew their attention to the cost study being carried out. That investigation won't go any faster. It'll be there by 2020. That may have conclusions for the year after. I do not see any need for an amendment to free up the budget for a bridging arrangement, referring, among other things, to the Sector PlanPlus. I have one further amendment from the PvdA Group before me, the amendment to item No. 31. This is about the practical supporters in general practitioners' care. It is an amendment tabled by Mr Kerstens. Mr Kerstens aims to equip practitioners in general care for the elderly in order to meet the complex care demand by releasing 2.42 million for the period 2020 to 2022. Mr. Chairman. Practical supporters are increasingly a permanent part of teams in general care. Many practices already reflect on better division of labour. I have made agreements with parties in the general practitioners' care that should further promote better division of labour. Nursing specialists, physician assistants and practitioners all play a role in this. As a follow-up, last year I had a study with the LHV on the labour market situation in general care and the question of which regions might be affected. As a follow-up, together with the LHV, I have drawn up a plan of action, with follow-up actions, aimed at making the general practitioner's profession attractive and increasing the range of general practitioners. For example, from the beginning of next year, the Ministry of VWS will go to the regions together with the LHV itself to explore the problems further with those involved on the ground. Appropriate solutions will also be considered for the region concerned, appropriate to the specific patient population there. Therefore, I do not think it is appropriate to provide additional resources for practitioners in advance. So I advise against the amendment. So much for the questions on the part of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u376	Before the Minister moves to one of the fellow parties, I will come forward again for the staff in the care. I indicated yesterday that the healthcare staff always put the patient and the client first, even if that is at their expense. And I've indicated that there must be a lot going on if they're to take action. Now they're in action. We've been talking about it for a while in all kinds of sectors, including hospitals because there's still no decent collective agreement. I have called on the Minister, once and for all, to distance himself from the employers in hospitals who, when people come into action for a decent collective agreement, intimidate people and try to shut them up. Would the Minister be kind enough to teach the gentlemen and ladies hospital workers who are guilty of doing so a lesson of good employership?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u377	This is another question. Yeah, it was in the bundle, too. I do not think that harassment is appropriate for any employer and that action should be taken against it, whatever the subject. Good employership is important in every sector, but where it is very tight, it should, of course, play an extra role. That seems logical to me, and that is still too easy to express in a business-like way. Good employership can work as a magnet to work for that care institution and not anywhere else. In reply to Mr Kerstens, I would like to point out the following. From the government, we can ensure that the 1.7 billion ovals in 2019, I repeat, and the 400 million Sector PlanPlus resources, which can be spent in a few years, are available. Then it is up to employers and employees to conclude good collective agreements. Fortunately, there are good examples of this in the healthcare sector; I have mentioned a number of them. I very much hope that employers and workers will get back to work for the hospital-cao and ensure that there is a good collective agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u378	I am not going to have that debate with the Minister again. I think it is important that he distance himself clearly now, for example in the run-up to the national action on 20 November next to arrive at a decent hospital-cao. He didn't really do that earlier in answering Parliamentary questions about this. It cannot be the case that employers in hospitals prevent their people from exercising their rights. Trying to intimidate people and shut them up is not part of good employership, which these employers also have a mouthful of. It certainly shouldn't be in a sector that's about people and who should be grateful to people because they're working day and night.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u379	I have also argued that harassment does not fit an employer, does not fit anywhere or does not fit in health care.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u380	I had asked the Minister if he would be willing to pay for contraception for everyone through the basic package. He doesn't want to. I had also asked him why the pill for women under the age of 21 is in the basic package, while the Minister says that this is not medically necessary. He replied that the pill for that age group was in the basic package because it was a political decision. It was a matter of political will to do so. Let me put it nicely: is it true that the Minister lacks political will to include contraception for all men and women in the basic package?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u381	This is a factual question that I actually wanted to answer. It's about a political agreement a few years ago. The situation as it is now, I would like to continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u382	So the answer is that there is no political will on the part of the Minister to settle this so important issue for so many men and women.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u383	We are day in, day out looking at what all needs to be in the insured package. There are a lot of suggestions on the table to add and there is never really any suggestion for what needs to come out. At the same time, on good grounds, the high care premium is being called for. Sometimes I have the ungrateful task of saying: this should be and cannot be. On this point, I do not want to change the existing situation. I come to the questions of the Christian Union and I would like to talk about tropic medicine, which Mrs Dik-Faber mentioned. I assume that Mrs Dik has read in the meantime why making extra funding available for training is so difficult. I myself looked at what VWS, the health care in the Netherlands, has to maintain the tropic doctor. Then you will come to the point of structured knowledge transfer, for example when it comes to infectious diseases that occur abroad and which we prefer not to have in the Netherlands. The issue of the transfer of knowledge is an issue for me. That was what I was talking about in Mrs Dik-Faber's speech, and that is why I wanted to mention it here. Then I come to the Christian Union amendment on the Dutch Lyme Disease Expertise Centre. The proposers propose to add an amount of 0.5 million to the budget of the Dutch Lyme Disease Expertise Centre by 2020. Part of the amendment is aimed at increasing knowledge research and knowledge exchange. In addition, more capacity is required in hospitals. That last part of the amendment is affected by the role of health insurers with purchasing. If I can interpret the amendment in such a way that VWS requires attention from health insurers and hospitals, then I intend to do so. But I can't impose it. If I may explain it that way, we have both themes, knowledge research and knowledge exchange, and capacity at stake. I'd like to leave the judgment to your room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u384	I took a look at the co-host. We welcome these words from the Minister. He says he's in consultation with health insurance companies. Can the Chamber be kept informed of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u385	I'm assuming that's where it's gonna be good. It may be the time of night, because we are getting rid of the terrible disease Lyme now, but I am going to bring that argument to the fore. I need to look for a convenient moment to bring it to you in a logical report, but I'll keep you informed about the consultation with the insurers and the hospitals. Mrs Van Esch asked a question about the centre of expertise for Q fever. I would like to stress that at the Q-fever expertise centre at Radboudumc there is a lot of knowledge about the treatment of Q-fever, so that's already there. Sorry about the policy language, because what I just said about Lyme also applies of course to Q fever; that it's a terrible condition that people don't get away from. Therefore, it is also good that one point of contact has been agreed for patients, municipalities and healthcare providers, for a temporary period at Q-support. We want to follow up on this for the next period, so that there is continued attention to this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u386	Thanks for the answer. I welcome that answer in itself, but I want it to be a little more specific. We understand that the centre of expertise is at the Radboudumc, but research shows and Q-support indicates that there is a huge search for a low-threshold centre of expertise for patients after 2021, if they actually complete their term. That's what our contribution was about. I explicitly ask the Minister if that's what he's thinking about. The centre of expertise at the Radboud is beautiful, let us certainly continue with that, but there is a great need for the Q-fever patients themselves to make it as easy as possible, so I would like to check for a moment whether it is the direction the minister wants to take.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u387	Q-support will come to talk about this point of contact at the end of November. Sorry for the word "one-stop shop" for patients, municipalities and healthcare providers. I think it is important that, as a government, we give the signal that it has our attention and that it will not be closed by the end of next year. Then the question of 50PLUS whether you can enter a study to fund dental care for the elderly from the retirement age from the basic insurance. We discussed this issue not so long ago in an AO. As far as I am concerned, it is mainly about doing things and not so much about a cost-benefit study. That's why we talked in the AO about initiatives like De Mond Not Forgotten!, to improve oral care for vulnerable elderly people in the home situation. In addition, I said that there should be a large round table to look specifically at oral care for vulnerable elderly people with all those who have a focus and a grip on it. I see more value in how we can improve that care than in a cost and benefit study.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u388	Here's the last interruption of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u389	Oh, that's too bad. I'd know a few more, Mr. Chairman. Anyway... In the AO we talked about the oral care for everyone in the basic package. As a result of this AO I also understand that that is a bit much to ask. That is why we are now asking for the advice of the Dutch Health Authority to take care of vulnerable elderly people in particular, especially from the retirement age, because it is a problem for those older people. We are now coming from the dentures generation in the generation that still has some teeth.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u390	Yes. We are talking about the group of older people who are of retirement age or older. I have said that we are working on initiatives such as the De monk Foundation! to pay particular attention to the oral care of vulnerable elderly people. And we have a round table to make sure that the vulnerable elderly in a home care organisation are sorry that I say it this way, not all attention goes to other forms of care and dental care is forgotten. With that foundation and the round table, it's all about me doing things. I'd rather do that than do an investigation into the costs and benefits. So that's what I want to focus my attention on and that's why I formulated it. Then very briefly. I'm gonna have another round table meeting, and that's what I'm doing about tapering strips. That's what I'm gonna do next month. I would very much like to see the parties fall into each other's arms when it comes to scientific research into the way in which they are phased out. There is not enough information on this. I hope that this round table will help to clarify the research question at least: to see how we can organise the phasing-out method in a scientifically proven way. That in the direction of 50PLUS. Then towards Mr Kuzu. Is Mr. Kuzu here?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u391	She's been home long and wide.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u392	Mr President, do not blame me for referring to the written answers given. Finally, towards Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. I had removed the point of the continuous glucose meter, but I actually discussed that point. For the sake of time, I should like to leave it at that. Mr. Chairman. I hope that I have discussed all the amendments that are addressed to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u393	Yes. So you're all set?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u394	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u395	Is it a suggestion that Minister De Jonge is now discussing his amendments? No. Let's do the Secretary of State first. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u396	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the spokesmen for their input in the first term. I would like to add that it is a great honour for me and a grateful responsibility to serve the country as Secretary of State for the United States of America. That's how I experience it every day. Everyone has to be able to participate. That's my motive. I know what participation in society can mean for people. If people use their talents, feel involved, are part of something bigger, then chances are they're going to be okay and they're going to be okay. I also know what it means when people can't participate. That's how I met Femke. She lived with her boyfriend on the street for a long time and sometimes in a broken boat. That's what she called a houseboat with a sail for the front door. She ran into the "walls of rigid policy," as she called it. In doing so, she experienced or experienced to be seen as a problem rather than as a young man with his own dreams of the future. Fortunately she now lives under a real roof in Dordrecht and is supported, but that has taken a long time. I also met Fatima and other young people who are homeless and homeless. All with problems, but especially all with talents, as well as the former homeless Fred Smit. In Utrecht, he helps homeless people on their way into the jungle of rules. While we were walking along places where he came as a homeless man, he explained to me what does work and what doesn't work. A rich country like ours has 40,000 homeless people. Last week, the Salvation Army called the bell, the four big cities and the VNG, too. It's a problem that I care, that we should all care and work together. Together with aldermen, aid workers and my colleagues in the cabinet, I make a plan. I would like to share that plan with you in December. I'll go into that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u397	Are you at the end of an introduction?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u398	No, I'm actually just getting started.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u399	Then proceed with your introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u400	I will deal with this topic later. Then I'm gonna dig it up a little bit. Mr. Chairman. Everyone has to be able to participate. That is also the basis of the main agreement ggz. Beautiful things are already happening. At GGZ Noord-Holland-Noord I called patients who get help from the aid worker by video bubbles. That's how things are going there faster and better. In Amsterdam I heard from proud employees of provider Arkin that by simplifying accountability to Menzis they gain almost an hour a day per employee in time. That is an important step in the fight against the terrible waiting times. We're in full swing. With the National Prevention Agreement, we have set firm targets for a healthier Netherlands. I think there is a real movement going on in the Netherlands right now. Minister De Jonge and Minister Bruins already told us how important it is to work on good, accessible and affordable care for the future. Then we need to think not only in terms of disease and care, but also in terms of the opportunities that prevention and healthy lifestyle offer. We're gonna lose too much of those odds right now. Prevention and lifestyle are becoming more and more important. A great contribution to the effort to get everyone involved can also be made by the social service. That's what we're doing right now. More than 10,000 young people have already been recruited to participate in 86 test areas. In February we will officially start doing so. Mr. Chairman. This year and next year we celebrate 75 years of freedom. Even the Lonely Planet writes about it. I have been allowed to speak with people who have worked for our freedom, such as 94-year-old Polish veteran Kubinski. He has fought in several countries in Western Europe for our freedom, while his compatriots on the east front fought to free their own country. These kinds of meetings strengthen me in the belief that we must continue to share the impressive stories about the war with future generations, so that they too cherish and protect our democratic rule of law, and everyone can continue to participate in a free Netherlands. I would now like to go into a few more topics, so this was the end of my introduction. But Mr Hijink is no longer on the interrupting microphone, so his question has probably already been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u401	He's gonna stay put. You're moving on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u402	Mr. Chairman. I would like to go into a few more details: prevention, homeless people, ggz, the Caribbean Netherlands and 75 years of freedom. First of all, prevention. We live in freedom for 75 years. This has brought prosperity and abundance to most or at least many of us. It has also done something with our lifestyle and our related health. Klein Orkest sang a very nice song in 1984: Over de Wall. In that they sing: and the neon commercials, that glittering lure/come dance, come eat, come drink, come gamble / that's now 40 years of freedom / a lot has been achieved at that time. I see recognition among peers, Chairman!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u403	Mrs Ellemeet would like to sing the second voice, I see her!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u404	I think we all agree it's a fantastic song, Mr. Chairman. But the moral of the story is: there is of course nothing wrong with dancing, but many people have, due to an unhealthy lifestyle, conditions such as cancer, diabetes or COPD. Every year 35,000 people in our country die from smoking, excessive alcohol consumption and overweight. The answer to this is for most patients: medicines or other medical treatments. But it is important that we focus our arrows much more on promoting a healthy lifestyle. Prevention is better than cure. Several Members, such as Mrs Ellemeet, Mr Raemakers, Mrs Van den Berg, Mrs Ploumen and Mrs Van Esch, have stressed the importance of prevention. That's what I'm getting from the heart. I also think that we should look more broadly at prevention. No one will disagree with that, but at the same time it appears difficult to offer something collectively to vulnerable groups. Quitting smoking is, of course, in the basic package of all health insurance companies. From 1 January 2020, it will no longer count for its own risk. And since January 1st of this year there has been the combined lifestyle intervention. In addition, many more beautiful things are happening in many places in the country and in the healthcare system, but we must also note that it is complicated to get those thousand flowering flowers at the level that we can all and everywhere use them. I think it should be more specific. That is why I started an intervention-oriented approach. I would like to make four short-term interventions, so that there is a national offer. These are: fall prevention, lifestyle interventions in diabetes, an approach to overweight in children and prescription-based well-being. These are the interventions that have already been largely proven in pilots. Moreover, they offer the prospect of effectiveness and cost-effectiveness, aim at cooperation between the medical and the social domain and address health problems with a major disease burden. In other words, we're sure it'll really help people. With the field parties involved we started to work, just very practical. What obstacles are there to offering it nationwide for all who need it and how do we remove obstacles? It seems very simple to me: continue until there are no more obstacles. Achieving a breakthrough on these four important prevention interventions is a test case for me to take on other issues as well. For example, we can think of prevention in relation to dementia. Now research is mostly needed to understand what works and is proven to be effective. As far as I am concerned, we must do so as soon as possible, as I say in the direction of Mrs Sazias. Prevention must increasingly be something we just do, not something we mainly talk about or think about; we have done enough. If we do something, then it is with the National Prevention Agreement, with all the parties involved. On the first day after the summer recess, we discussed it in detail. I welcome the broad consensus on the agreement in your Chamber. The parties are now in the process of implementing measures to combat smoking, overweight and problematic alcohol consumption. The actions are becoming more and more visible. The other day I was for the National Crane Water Day that we also have at a Healthy School in Apeldoorn. Nationally, more than 100,000 pupils from Dutch primary schools considered the importance of healthy and tasty tap water. In the coming period about 1,000 school squares will receive a water tap point. We also see the translation into local prevention agreements in progress. In Nijmegen I was there 40 parties take not only the three themes of our national Prevention Agreement, but also mental health and a physical healthy environment as the starting point. Mrs Dik-Faber asked whether we could not try the Healthy Elementary School of the Future initiative in other parts of the country. In November I go to the initiators; then I visit there. I know, of course, that this initiative has been launched and I am curious to see what findings I can draw from it. Of course, thinking about the issues of the National Prevention Agreement does not stand still, nor does it stand still in your Chamber. For example, Mrs Ploumen proposes accelerating the introduction of neutral packaging for e-cigarettes. The sooner, the better, as far as I'm concerned. We share that. But we are the first country to do that; in that we are really at the forefront, so we can't watch the art anywhere. It'll take time. Mrs Dik-Faber asks for a ban on flavors in e-cigarettes. I also hate these tastes, precisely because they make e-cigarettes more attractive to young people. Tastes are specifically included in the ongoing Trimbos investigation. I will send you the results at the end of this year. Mr. Chairman. Prevention is, of course, also about drugs. I am deeply concerned about the use of drugs in our country. We were talking about it recently and we will continue this debate shortly. I think it is an achievement that the subject is open to discussion, that there is no taboo on it. This makes it possible to focus the conversation and our actions on reducing usage. In doing so, we want to combat standardisation. I share Mr Kuzu's concerns. He's not here, but I'll mention it anyway. He mentioned nitrous oxide again. We have shared that before. At present, the Coordination Committee for Assessment and Monitoring of New Drugs (CAM) is carrying out a risk assessment. It will be presented very soon, so that we know better what we can do to reduce use. As you know, I am also working on identifying different policy options in the meantime. I am also looking with great interest at what is already happening in practice, like this week in Arnhem. Hopefully in November but certainly before Christmas I will return to the Chamber with this subject. Then the head of homeless and homeless.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u405	Mr Veltman would like to ask about the heading of prevention. I have bad news for Mrs Ploumen, because she is already at her fifteen interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u406	Really?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u407	Yeah, really.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u408	A lot of reports appear, including reports from our own Chamber. I have here the report of colleagues Sneller van D66 and Snels van GroenLinks, who have made a report from the Finance Committee entitled "Building policies. The importance of Article 3.1 of the Compatibility Act 2016 to control the government'. More specifically, they have also placed the Prevention Agreement along the measuring bar. To the question "is it explained what financial consequences there are for the Empire?" is the answer no. On the question "is the financial impact on third parties explained where appropriate?" is the answer no. And to the question "is it explained to what extent an optimal relationship between the financial resources to be deployed and the performance or effects to be achieved with the instruments chosen?" In short, the answer is also no. Now the Secretary of State has informed the Chamber that he will have it monitored by the RIVM when offering the Prevention Agreement. If I read this report from our colleagues in the Chamber, then the question is: how and what are you going to have RIVM monitor? So if we do not really have that efficiency in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u409	Mr Veldman's question focuses on efficiency. What RIVM is going to present in any case is the effect of the measures we are taking against the objectives we have set out in the Prevention Agreement on the three sub-topics.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u410	I just need to think about what I think of this answer. This is some sort of technical formal response. Yeah, this is what RIVM can do. But if we did not design efficiency properly at the start and we do not know exactly what the financial consequences are, or the financial allocation of what is being used in instruments and measures, will that not be a bit difficult for RIVM? Would it not then perhaps be a matter for the Secretary of State to share with the Chamber how he looks at the measures that have been presented, what about efficiency and what financial consequences there are?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u411	If I understand Mr Veldman's question in such a way that he says 'come up with a more detailed account of how you want that issue to be addressed by the RIVM', then I would like to say that I would like to inform the Chamber about that. Apart from that, after the summer recess, we had a wide-ranging debate on the Prevention Agreement. At that time it also went into detail on the subject of monitoring. In my opinion, there is common sense in this Chamber that we are taking very substantial steps towards prevention and a healthier Netherlands with very limited resources, which are set aside for the prevention agreement in the government agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u412	The Secretary of State makes a commitment to share efficiency with the Chamber. I think my colleague Hermans is looking forward to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u413	Mr. Chairman. I'll continue with the topic of homeless people and homeless people. The Netherlands is one of the richest countries in the world. Yet there are almost 40,000 homeless. Not acceptable, the Prime Minister called it Tuesday in the First Chamber. Several members of your Chamber, such as Mrs Van den Berg, Mrs Bergkamp, Mrs Dik-Faber and Mr Renkema, asked for attention in the first place. These are people who do not have basic things like housing, care and money. A quarter of the homeless are between 18 and 27 years old. That is why I started this year with the action programme for young people who are homeless and homeless. The ambition is: no longer young people in care for a long time. Fourteen pilot municipalities, together accounting for more than half of these young people, are trying to achieve this before the end of the year 2021. Young people follow a tailor-made journey. Together with the youth director, one permanent point of contact per young person, they determine what is needed to build a stable life. These tailor-made courses serve as an example for helping all homeless young people. I have high hopes for it, but that plan is about young people. In the meantime, we need to look more broadly at an approach for all homeless people and homeless people. The sooner we can turn the tide, the better for all the people who sleep on the street tonight or in the nightcare, or just not at home. I cannot do this alone, as aldermen, aid workers and my colleagues in the cabinet cannot do it alone. The urgency is clear and that is why we are putting our hands on it together. As I said, we will come up with a plan in December. One of the things we're working on, for example, is "housing first": adequate accommodation, where ex-roofers with their own income and adequate guidance can rebuild their own lives as independently as possible. That's the goal. It is not easy, because there can be many causes of homelessness and all kinds of things play a role in providing people with suitable housing and support. But we owe it to ourselves to do everything together to come up with a smart, working approach, unorthodox if we have to. In reply to Mr Renkema, I would like to stress that the idea of a mercy bonus, if only for the sake of the word, is very appealing to me. I would therefore like to involve this idea in the development of plans that we are making with municipalities and aid workers. We need to help people who are homeless and homeless to a home and provide good guidance. At the same time, we must do everything we can to ensure that people do not end up in such a situation at all. That brings me to the subject of ggz.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u414	Prime Minister Rutte said that it is unacceptable that in the last ten years the number of homeless people has doubled to 40,000. Unacceptable. Can I ask the Secretary of State if he thinks that is incredibly hypocritical, that our Prime Minister dares to say so in such a way? Over the past ten years, these have been exactly the ten years in which the VVD, in which Prime Minister Rutte, was in charge here. In the ggz one third of the beds have been removed. There has been enormous cuts in the supervision of municipalities, so that they can no longer offer this guidance. The housing corporations have been cut off, so there were too few affordable rentals. As a result, of course, the waiting lists have only become longer and the reception has only become fuller. My question to the Secretary of State: does he find such words from the Prime Minister incredibly hypocritical?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u415	I don't think those words are hypocritical at all. I am very pleased that the Prime Minister spoke those words on behalf of the cabinet in the First Chamber, at the General Reviews there. If you look a bit wider in Western Europe, I think you can see that in all the other Western European countries, which are all very prosperous and have a very good social system, it has happened that so much homelessness has arisen. That does not justify the measures that led to it, but I do not think anyone would have seen that in a country as rich as the Netherlands this would have reached these proportions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u416	No, no one can see that if you impose huge taxes on housing corporations, which makes them less able to build and offer less affordable rentals, people become homeless. No one could have expected that if you cut €700 million on municipalities, more people would not be able to get guidance from that same municipality. No one could have seen that coming, no one. No one warned you about that either... We have been warned on all sides about the tough policies that have been pursued in recent years. I would like to ask one more question, Mr President. There is a call from the municipalities: give us more money to provide that guidance and make sure that people from that shelter can flow away to affordable rental homes, so that we no longer have that crowded shelter. The Secretary of State has a plan, but will that plan also make extra money available to those municipalities, the money they need so much? We have proposed giving an additional billion to the municipalities next year so that they can find solutions to these problems too. My question to the Secretary of State is whether his plan is free or whether he comes up with extra money for those municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u417	The plan isn't free for the Empire anyway. In previous debates with ministers, for example, the EUR 2 billion for housing has already been discussed. Apart from that, I have intensive contact with municipalities to see if what we are doing with each other is enough, or whether there should be a shovel on top. Can we do other things with the available resources, so that it becomes more efficient, or should the Empire also do additional things? I have another meeting with municipalities tomorrow, and that will be an item on the agenda. I think it is premature to say now: let us add a billion or let us add a lot of money. First of all, I want a clear picture of how the municipalities now come up with the budgets they receive for social care, sheltered housing, ggz and other tasks. Mr. Chairman. I think I announced the subject "ggz" as a cup. Of course it's not. I was merely referring to the number of words I will dedicate to it. Not all people who are homeless and homeless have mental illness and, of course, not all ggz patients are at risk of becoming homeless or homeless, but unfortunately in practice it often comes together. I therefore see it as a major step forward that the municipalities, too, have signed the main agreement ggz this summer. The social domain is therefore well involved in mental health care for people with mental illness. This way they are helped as much as possible at home in their familiar environment. Digital support will play an increasingly important role in the future. The intensive involvement of municipalities in this domain fits within the Multi-Year Agenda protected living and social care. The cabinet will make 65 million extra available to the municipalities in 2020. That's in this budget. This amount amounts to 95 million structuralally from 2023. I would just like to say to Mr Hijink that these are additional resources for municipal ggz support. This close cooperation between medical care and the social domain should contribute to organizational care, including in the ggz. Mr. Chairman. Mr Renkema made a point about training places for ggz psychologists and, in my view, he tabled the amendment to section No. 30 in. I think that I am not going to meet Mr Renkema on this point and that we are not going to find each other on that point. In recent years, we have already facilitated more influx than the Capacity Body recommended. The Capacity Body is tripartite composed of professional groups, providers and insurers. As a result, we expect a large number of psychologists to complete their training in the coming years. Moreover, training now will not solve the acute problem. In the written reply I went into more detail. I think that with this intensification we would try to solve something that does not seem to be a problem in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u418	I made that proposal against the backdrop of the waiting lists. I must say that I am very much concerned about the waiting lists in the ggz. It was mentioned very briefly in the introduction to the Secretary of State. In the meantime, almost 100,000 people in the Netherlands are on a waiting list. There are also the longest waiting lists to deal with the most serious problems. The latest figures were published three weeks ago. I'm just gonna name one, the eating disorders. The waiting period there is 17 weeks. That still sounds like it can be seen over, but that's an average. It can be much longer and much shorter, but in the Zwolle region it is for example 40 weeks. That means if your daughter has an eating disorder, at least in Zwolle, it'll take an average of 40 weeks to get her help. Can the Secretary of State respond to the problem of waiting lists in relation to my appeal to train more people?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u419	I would like to say two things about this, because my next paragraph was also about waiting times. In general, we have frequent contact with the professional groups, with the trade associations, with GGZ Nederland. This particular point, which there would be a shortage of training places, was not raised in those talks. I am surprised that I will then be called upon in the budget procedure to make extra places available for this, whereas in all the discussions I have, this will not be included as a specific bottleneck. Once again, in the written answers, I have responded to this. For example, there are 950 vacancies for ggz psychologists. That's a lot. But next year alone, 700 will be trained. Years after that, 900 a year. If you are going to add another 100 to that, it may well be that we are going to train people for something we will no longer need. What I do want to promise to Mr Renkema is that I will discuss it again with the professional groups. Do you recognise the point raised by Mr Renkema in that debate? In any case, the point has not been mentioned to me as an obvious bottleneck. Then the waiting lists sec. I can also say at once what is in the following paragraph: those waiting lists are also a thorn in my eye. As far as I am concerned, for two years now, every effort has been made to resolve them and to bring them back to an acceptable level, at least within the 14-week threshold for registration and treatment waiting times. That is a long time in itself, but that is what we have agreed on. For the summer, the NZa published figures of waiting times per disease, which were shorter than six months before. That is not a guarantee that things will continue to work out, but we are getting a better picture of how things are going at regional level. With the presentation of these waiting times figures, the NZa will therefore increasingly reflect the situation by region, where the waiting times are, even at the provider level and at the provider level, in relation to the contracting health insurance provider. We've never had that insight before. That can help me to intervene much more precisely where it is necessary. We are doing this in addition to the regional approaches that we already have and which are now really leading to solutions, because providers, insurers and municipalities sit around together to find solutions to very specific bottlenecks. This approach has been evidently successful in recent times. We can do this even more focused now, because we really have an insight into where the problems are at almost level of detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u420	At the point of waiting lists is one of the buttons you can turn on, training enough psychologists. Those are the people who can make a diagnosis, who can start a DBC, who can start a therapy. We currently have nearly a thousand vacancies in the Netherlands. My mailbox is full of messages from people saying, "I'm not being helped." I come to a lot of work visits. I am not sitting at the administrative tables where it is said: our estimates will be correct. I can see in concrete terms that the problem is not being solved. The number of clinical psychologists in the Netherlands is so small because there are no ggz psychologists who can enter that training. I have tabled an amendment for 100 more and I cannot understand why the reaction to this is the fear that we will have unemployed ggz psychologists in the Netherlands, if there are almost 100,000 people on the waiting list and 1,000 vacancies as we speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u421	But the training for which Mr Renkema wants to make money available lasts for two years. If we are to make money available for this, and that starts next year, then there must also be people who want to move on to clinical psychologists, because that is what Mr Renkema is aiming for. I just stated in my reply that 700 new ggz psychologists will be available next year. They'll be done with their training. The following years are expected to be 900 per year. Then there would have to be a huge outflow if we still had a shortage and if those 100 were to provide that solace. That is just my reaction and I think we are continuing to share the same arguments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u422	The last interruption of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u423	Mr. Chairman. We're talking waiting lists in the ggz. Today I received the following from a distraught mother, whom I would like to tell the Secretary of State. "Me and our family need help. Our daughter OD'd again today, five times since May. Tried so many entrances. Zero. Where's the fucking help?" Then she writes "Train," with three question marks, "a trauma for others. Help me! Help us!" It's about a mother with a daughter on a 32-week waiting list. She is asking us, and in fact this evening's politics, today for help, for an answer, for a solution. My question to the Secretary of State is: what have we or what do you have to say to that mother and what solution do you have to offer her?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u424	First of all, the example we are hearing here is appalling and poignant. In general, I'm going to deal specifically with the case of course that people can consult their health insurance provider, call them, and call them to mediate. After all, they have a duty of care. We also know that in not all cases this leads to a solution. We also see this in other sectors. That's the job of health insurers. They have to intercede. We also expect healthcare providers to actively refer them to fellow providers if they do not have a place of their own. I do not know this case, this case, this situation, but it sounds so painful that I would like to invite Mr Van Gerven to share it with me. Then we can look into it and see if we can do anything from the Ministry. I shall continue my speech, Mr President. I'm at the Caribbean Netherlands particle. In 2020, as in the European Netherlands, there will be combined lifestyle intervention and aid for smoking cessation in the insured package for people in the Caribbean Netherlands. I also think it is important that older people receive support and care in order to stay home longer. That is why we started last year to make four parts of social support available. Think of meals and target transport. For Bonaire and Saint-Eustatius this is ready and Saba follows quickly. As part of this, I am also committed to the daycare of the elderly. Where there are waiting lists, we expand checked. If living at home really doesn't go anymore, there should be room available in a good care facility. In the first quarter of 2020, I will complete my plan to strengthen care for the elderly. Customization for every island. Mrs Bergkamp also asked on behalf of Mrs Diertens about the possibilities of a pgb in the Caribbean Netherlands. That's a logical question. The answer is that care on the islands is already very small-scale and tailored. I myself have not received any signals that the pgb would be an answer to a care question in the Caribbean part of the Netherlands. We are now focusing on the further development of care, which, I repeat, is very small on the islands. Introducing a pgb doesn't seem to have any added value right now. Mrs Dik-Faber drew attention to the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in the Caribbean Netherlands. I too think that is very important. We are working hard on it, but it is really very different there than in the European Netherlands. For example, there is no public transport and few people need special transport. This does not detract from the importance of the Convention, but it does justify a more individual approach. I continue to talk to the islands about the implementation of the Convention, but the emphasis is on making a real difference in the lives of people with disabilities. Mr. Chairman. The last topic I would like to discuss briefly is 75 years of freedom. This year and next year we celebrate our 75 years of freedom. We have the freedom to make our own choices, to love, to believe. For those born in a time of peace, freedom seems so self-evident, but it is not. Millions of people have risked their lives for our freedom. We must never forget their stories. I have invested over EUR 2 million in educational projects and there is an additional EUR 15 million in the modernisation of various war museums, history research into the Second World War and making sources and archives more digitally accessible. In this context, Mr Slootweg asked how we involve young people in passing on these stories and celebrating 75 years of freedom. I didn't see him for a while, but here he comes. As you have read in the answers, we do so in all kinds of ways, involving young people in passing the stories. What stands out for me is that young people themselves are on the buttons in the committee that advises on the distribution of the 15 million. Mr. Chairman. It is our responsibility to make clear to future generations what horrors lead to intolerance and war, to tell each other over and over again that we must cherish and protect our democracy and the rule of law, so that we can also live together in freedom over the next 75 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u425	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Minister De Jonge for an opinion on the latest amendments. Then I'm gonna suspend for ten minutes and stretch my legs. And I've used my influence with the staff of the members' restaurant to make sure there's something there for the inner man. That's our own mercy bonus, I'll say. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u426	Mr. Chairman. Of course, under pressure from my short-sightedness coach, I had failed to provide the amendments with an opinion. That was done in writing, but that is not how we are married, because of course this should also be done orally here in this Chamber. So I shall begin with the amendment to item No. 14, of the member Hijink. That's about adding 40 million to the incentive scheme. We have talked exuberantly about this subject. I have already indicated, I think, that the current incentive arrangement simply provides scope for the establishment of the health-care neighbourhoods. This is not an end in itself; 'unfortunately', I say. We are also going to increase the spending obligation, so I hope that initiatives such as the health centre will also be put in place. And since that arrangement is not exhausted, I do not think this amendment is necessary, so I would advise against it. Then there is the amendment tabled by Mr Bergkamp. She asks for 1 million to be added for cross-domain cooperation and social trials dementia. They're running. With an extra 1 million they could be extended, and that seems to me to be a very nice thought, so let us leave the judgment to the Chamber on this point. The amendment in part No. 22 member Bergkamp deals with the family care information box. We have actually already had the debate on this. I'm excited about that. This would make it possible to make a good start. So I leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u427	You have to say something about the amendment to item No. 7, by members Westerveld and Klaver, on the budget for centres of expertise for specialised youth aid.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u428	That's right. That was a while ago.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u429	Yeah, we're gonna keep track of everything here, and we're gonna stay sharp.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u430	Yeah, there's nothing wrong with the administration, Mr. Chairman. I remember that amendment from the General Political Reviews. So I haven't got him ready here for a while. But we'd like to leave the judgment to the Chamber on that point. It had been announced for some time, namely since the APB. As regards the way in which we are already working on this amendment, I will write in a letter which I will send to the Chamber before the WHO Youth.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u431	Thank you. Then we're complete. Here's what I'm gonna tell you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u432	The honourable Members have one hour of speaking time in the second term, but it would be nice if everyone would just keep it short and pointy. Last year we made 67 motions. You don't have to do that this year, but we'll see. I call Mrs Agema from the Group of the Party for Freedom.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u433	Thank you, President. I would like to thank the directors for their reply. I congratulate Secretary Bruins. I thought he had a very nice opening: a personal but also a very appropriate story, appropriate to his policy area. I liked that very much; compliments. I shall confine myself to the motions relating to the organization of care. We are going to talk about this a lot in the years to come. My plea therefore is not only to pick the low-hanging fruit but all the fruit. That's why I'm filing the next four motions. The first motion concerns the full-time bonus. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the government warns about the organization of care and fears that where one in seven people now work in care, it might be one in four in 2040;]] [[noting that this is unrealistic and that concrete measures must therefore be taken;]] [[noting that the part-time factor in care is 0.6 and that only 246 000 out of 1.2 million care workers work full-time;]] [[noting that these people are already on the payroll and therefore should not be drawn from outside care;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the cost of a full-time bonus of 5% per quarter and how it can be implemented,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agema, Mr Sazias, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Kerstens and Mr Ellemeet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVI-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u434	I understand that wish, but if there are any motions, we should simply be able to ask a question about it, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u435	Yeah, it has to be, but it's gonna be really deep in the night when we get to every motion, and it's gonna be dozens of mini-debates. Can you say it in one sentence? Then Mrs. Agema says yes and then we move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u436	I think it's a serious point. I also hate that it's getting late, but I can't help it that we don't start till this late in the afternoon. I also think it would be wrong if we stopped asking questions because it happens to be a little late. That would be a little weird. It is one of the most important debates of the year. It's about the budget, so I think that space should be there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u437	You heard my plea. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u438	My question is whether Mrs Agema is also aware that sometimes there can be very good reasons for people not to work full-time and that you should be careful that this proposal is not going to lead to a division and that you harm people who work with just as much passion and love in the profession as they do not have the opportunity to work full-time. Should this not be taken into account in the examination of the possibilities, so that these people are not disproportionately disadvantaged by such a proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u439	Yes, you're absolutely right, Mr. Hijink. But if we really run into an unorganisability of care and, where one in seven people now work in care, one in four will soon work... Everyone knows that this is completely unfeasible. If we want to prevent that, the beacons must now be changed. Then we can't keep moaning about "yes, but that one, yes, but that one, yes, but sister." You may have very big eyes, but I also expect concrete plans from the SP to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u440	What about the next motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u441	And the voluntary full-time bonus seems like a very good starting point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u442	You're getting them quiet a lot easier than I am, Mrs. Agema. Can't you sit here from now on?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u443	You're making it much more pleasant, Mr. Chairman. The next motion also deals with the organizational aspects. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the government warns about the organization of care and fears that where one in seven people now work in care, it might be one in four in 2040;]] [[noting that this is unrealistic and that concrete measures must therefore be taken;]] [[noting that the overhead in long-term care has increased from 13% to over 16%, while the best performing institutions have 5% to 7% overhead;]] [[noting that about 50,000 employees would be able to return to care when the average overhead would be 7%;]] [[noting that these people are already on the payroll and therefore should not be drawn from outside care;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the overhead in long-term care is reduced to a maximum of 7% and to consider whether a workplace bonus is a good means of achieving this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agema and Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVI-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u444	Next move. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the government warns about the organization of care and fears that where one in seven people now work in care, it could be one in four in 2040;]] [[noting that this is unrealistic and that concrete measures must therefore be taken;]] [[noting that 52% of staff in academic hospitals no longer have patient contact and that this percentage has increased in recent years rather than decreased;]] [[noting that these people should be able to continue to fulfil a care task while retaining their salary;]] [[noting that these people are already on the payroll and therefore should not be drawn from outside care;]] [[calls on the government to bring forward an overhead standard in the different sectors of curative care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the government warns about the organization of care and fears that where one in seven people now work in care, it could be one in four in 2040;]] [[noting that this is unrealistic and that concrete measures must therefore be taken;]] [[noting that the administrative burden in long-term care has increased to 35%;]] [[Considers that care workers should be freed so that they can devote more time to their care tasks, especially since they are already on the payroll and therefore do not need to be drawn from outside care;]] [[calls on the government to arrive at a single rate in nursing care rather than the care gravity financing,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agema, Mr Sazias and Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVI-34]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agema, Mr Sazias, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen and Mr Kerstens. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVI-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u445	I had asked Mr. Slootweg to sign a motion on the driver's test. I haven't heard from him about that, so I assume he's not going to table that motion either, and we're going to talk about that another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u446	Thank you. Mr Veldman of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u447	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the three rulers for answering the many questions that have been asked. I was surprised that during the first hour and a half of the cabinet's term it was mainly about the system. In particular, there has been a system discussion. I am glad, however, that the Minister for Health has also simply stated: "The system is as it is. We have a system of private parties, where we have a number of public framework conditions. Within that existing system, we need to make improvements in order to meet the challenges that will be facing us in the future." The Minister for Medical Care has indicated that he is going to make an effort to scale up these digital innovations. Thank you for that. I have tabled a motion on this because the Minister spoke in fairly general terms. In my view, it is important that both healthcare providers, health insurers and healthcare agencies take responsibility. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that agreements have been reached in the main lines of agreements on innovative forms of care, e-health, care evaluation and appropriate use as part of the regular care process;]] [[noting that the main line agreements also agreed on continuous improvement of the quality of care, which should land in the regular care process through care evaluation and appropriate use;]] [[Given the need to apply comprehensively digital innovations and e-health applications in order to ensure sustainability and organisational sustainability, labour-saving and cost-saving;]] [[noting that there is insufficient acceleration of scaling;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure the establishment of an inventory of proven (cost) effective digital innovations and e-health applications, to bring this inventory to the attention of healthcare providers, health insurers and health offices, and to actively encourage these parties to take up the desired scale, to monitor which initiatives are effectively scaled up and which are not, and to report to the Court,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Veldman and Mr Van den Berg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVI-36]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u448	The Minister, probably also to try to limit speaking time, has not responded to my call about the Renal Teams to the House. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is still a shortage of kidney donors;]] [[noting that in donating a kidney, donation in life is the most desirable option;]] [[noting that the Renal Teams are already making an important contribution to resolving this deficit;]] [[Whereas, in addition to the resources made available to the Renal Teams at House for the eight current centres, it is desirable that further scaling-up of the Renal Teams at House should start as soon as possible from 1 January 2021;]] [[Calls on the Government to prepare the scaling-up of Renal Teams to House by 2020;]] [[calls on the Government to make available for the coverage a contribution from the non-compulsory legal area Article 2 of the VWS 2020 budget in the necessary project costs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Veldman, Mr Tellegen and Mr Pia Dijkstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVI-37]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u449	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u450	Thank you. Then Mrs. Laan-Geselschap.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u451	Mr. Chairman. Thank you for chairing today and thank you to the Ministers and the Secretary of State for answering all our questions, which were frequent. Thanks to the behind-the-scenes officials, but also the VVD colleagues in the back of the room and the colleagues who have supported my colleague and I today. That can be said again. I am most pleased personally with the commitment of the VWS Minister to give us an insight into his outline note in the spring. Although some people don't like that, I like that kind of thing. I'm glad we're being taken into it. Then we have motions. I have two motions on behalf of Mr Tellegen and one by myself. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the country there are initiatives by parents, health care providers and health care offices to improve the quality of life of their children/clients, but that they face obstacles, such as legislation and regulation and the IGJ;]] [[Whereas the quality of life of clients should be at the heart of the project and should be supported by the Ministry of Health, Welfare and Sport by all those seeking it through an innovative initiative;]] [[Calls on the Government to encourage the parties to report if they experience these bottlenecks in the cooperation at the healthcare window for innovation.nl, so that initiatives can be helped on the way, and invites the Government, if necessary, to strengthen the communication and capacity of that window;]] [[Calls on the Government to facilitate and encourage parties such as clients, health insurers, health offices, municipalities and healthcare providers to cooperate to fully organise the right care and support and to disseminate existing examples of successful initiatives;]] [[calls on the Government to explore, where appropriate, whether legislative and regulatory initiatives can contribute to the quality of life of clients,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Laan-Geselschap, Mr Slootweg, Mr Bergkamp and Mr Ellemeet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300--38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u452	No, not this one. And you won't have to say that again from Mr Van der Staaij. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Euthanasie Expertise Centre has gained a lot of knowledge and experience in recent years on issues surrounding the end of life and is therefore an important knowledge institute;]] [[Whereas the Euthanasia Expertise Centre is already acting as an information centre for many general practitioners throughout the Netherlands and is regularly consulted when general practitioners are confronted with an euthanasia request;]] [[Whereas the modules already developed by the Euthanasia Expertise Centre which aim to educate and assist general practitioners in euthanasia requests can contribute to the desire in the government agreement to increase knowledge of the euthanasia law among doctors;]] [[invites the Government, in consultation with the professional associations concerned, to examine how these modules of the Euthanasia Expertise Centre can become available to all general practitioners in the Netherlands, and to inform the Chamber thereof before the summer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Laan-Geselschap, Mr Tellegen and Mr Pia Dijkstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300--39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u453	The final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that euthanasia is not the right of people to enforce it with their general practitioner;]] [[having regard to the opinion of the Economic and Social Committee,]] [[whereas the conversation with their general practitioner is of great importance to many people around the end of their lives, but is also perceived as difficult and complicated;]] [[Whereas, therefore, it is all the more important to reduce the threshold for conversation so that patient and general practitioner can speak with each other early and as often as necessary about wishes surrounding the end of life;]] [[calls on the government to put forward a concrete action plan to stimulate discussions between the general practitioner and the patient;]] [[invites the Government to send this plan to the Chamber by summer 2020 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Laan-Geselschap, Mr Tellegen and Mr Pia Dijkstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300--40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u454	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the directors for answering all the questions. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the healthcare professional is working hard to improve people, but that the process also involves climate change and environmental pollution, leading to disease, premature births and mortality worldwide;]] [[Whereas the healthcare sector is responsible for at least 7% of CO emissions in the Netherlands and produces a lot of waste;]] [[Considering that initiatives in the healthcare sector to reduce CO footprint and reduce waste could still use an intensification;]] [[Considering that the healthcare sector also wants to make an important contribution, can and must make a contribution to achieving the climate targets to which the Netherlands has committed itself;]] [[calls on the government to make strong agreements with the healthcare sector on reducing CO emissions, and to examine the financing and financing of the sustainability statement for the healthcare sector;]] [[calls on the Government to develop, together with the healthcare sector, a plan of action to develop the ambitions of the government agreement on circular economy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[considers that patients benefit from deciding on the desired treatment together with the healthcare professional;]] [[Whereas information on outcomes of treatments is important in making the choice of patient and healthcare provider;]] [[Whereas treatment outcomes may vary considerably among elderly patients;]] [[calls on the Government to focus the Transparency 2020 Grant Scheme on promoting outcome information and its use in "Together Decide" for vulnerable elderly,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are fewer and fewer pharmacists who are still preparing medicines because of the cost of majestic preparation and thereby the loss of knowledge about majestic preparation;]] [[Whereas magistral preparation is essential to create personalised medicines, to cope with temporary shortages and to provide them as an alternative to (extremely) expensive medicines from the pharmaceutical industry without a financial arrangement;]] [[calls on the government to examine, in consultation with pharmacists and health insurance companies, how best to promote knowledge sharing on the following three themes:]] [[legal knowledge;]] [[professional knowledge of preparation;]] [[prepare economically sound Magistrate;]] [[and asks the Minister to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ellemeet and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVI-41]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ellemeet and Mr Laan-Selschap. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVI-42]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ellemeet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVI-43]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u455	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u456	Thank you. Then there is your group colleague, Mr Renkema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u457	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the rulers. I have two motions, both of which relate to homeless people and homeless people. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the number of homeless people has increased explosively to 40,000 in recent years;]] [[noting that the large increase is partly due to the lack of cheap housing and that the large cities warn that the number of homeless people will increase rapidly;]] [[noting that emergency care is overcrowded in all regions;]] [[whereas in Amsterdam there is a project to match homeless people with landlords who want to make an empty room available, and that other municipalities could follow this set-up;]] [[In addition to VWS, the Government also requests BZK and SZW to explore with the Association of Dutch Municipalities and other relevant parties whether a temporary incentive, a "merciful bonus," can contribute to more people making living space available to homeless people, and to inform the Chamber in the spring of 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Renkema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVI-44]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u458	Then there's the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a record number of 40,000 homeless people nationwide, and this is expected to increase further;]] [[noting that it is estimated that half of the current homeless people have not previously had a permanent residence or residence;]] [[Whereas ex-husbands can use their experience functionally as an expert in experience and in practice show that experience experts provide effective care to the homeless;]] [[considers that the creation of a perspective is of great importance in order to avoid relapse;]] [[calls on the Government to encourage the availability of sufficient locally available resources to equip former homeless people with their knowledge and expertise to help those currently homeless, and to take this into account in the already announced plan to combat homelessness,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Renkema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVI-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u459	Thank you. Then Mrs van den Berg from the CDA group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u460	Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank the rulers for all their answers. I very much welcome the commitment to children's diet, which is included in the children's chain approach. I hope, however, that the Secretary of State will confirm that we will have a result for the consultation on package management. It is also very good to hear that Minister De Jonge continues to draw attention to playgrounds for disabled children and will also take part in his conversation with the municipalities. Then I would like to ask Minister De Jonge whether he would like to send a letter before Christmas with the state of play on the double problem, i.e. the people who have both intellectual disabilities and psychiatric illness. We have had a short debate on this together and I would like to have a letter with the state of play on the 100 places and the outpatient teams. And is there any indication of how this already works in certain regions? Then I have three motions. I'm glad Minister Bruins is going to look at the emergency number. But he's talking about a doctor's emergency number. We would like it if the emergency number, whether you are looking for the ggz, the district nurse or general practitioner, is always available. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas research shows that there is a need for a single emergency number to address an acute care question that does not require immediate ambulance care;]] [[Whereas such a line allows an expert to ask for the type of assistance needed and to see who can provide this care in the vicinity or region and is readily available;]] [[whereas such emergency numbers already exist in Denmark, Sweden and Wales, among others, and the experience there is positive;]] [[Whereas the Minister indicated that he would examine acute care with the charcoal sketch to see if there could be any form of care coordination;]] [[calls on the Government to examine and inform the Court of Justice of the possibility of setting up a single national emergency number for, inter alia, general practitioners, community care and ggz in the charcoal sketch of acute care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van den Berg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVI-46]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u461	We also very much appreciate the fact that the Minister is going to come up with a charcoal sketch of acute concern and that he is taking the stops, for example, and also the letter advice that the Health and Society Council is going to give. But we would also like to see a much more explicit mention of the public interest and how that will be secured in those charcoal sketches. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government has an acute concern for the summer of 2020;]] [[noting that the Minister has indicated his desire to take more direction and that an active role of the government is needed;]] [[noting that, at present, adjustments to acute care are often based only on institutional interest;]] [[believes that it should be better ensured that the public interest should be guiding changes in acute care;]] [[calls on the government to explicitly include in the charcoal sketch how the public interest is structurally secured in decision-making in the event of changes in acute care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van den Berg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVI-47]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u462	A very short question. In this recital, Mrs van den Berg says that too much is being done from the point of view of the institution. But does she mean, when it comes to acute care, then the ambulances in terms of institutions, or the acute posts in the hospitals, or both?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u463	I am referring in particular to the fact that at the moment you see that a hospital wants to close a department or reduce something, or that a general practitioner has to take other measures, without an integral consideration of the public interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u464	Just so we're clear, it's not gonna watch the paramedics?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u465	Ambulance care is part of the acute care, but I haven't heard from ambulance services yet that they're gonna quit tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u466	Very good. Your final motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u467	The final motion concerns the production of medicinal products. For the CDA, we have become too dependent on countries such as China and India. For us, it is a process of vital importance. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas we have become too dependent on countries outside Europe when it comes to the production of medicines;]] [[Whereas the Minister has indicated that he intends to set out at European level to conduct a study on the production of medicinal products in Europe and that France is already in the process of making concrete plans;]] [[considers that the production of medicinal products should be seen as a process of vital importance;]] [[calls on the government to investigate the possibilities and opportunities for bringing pharmaceutical production sites to the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Berg and Mr Veldman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVI-48]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u468	Mr. Chairman. I would like to use my last second to call on Minister De Jonge, in particular, to raise the level of education in the talks. We have been told that the Ministry is investing hundreds of millions in, for example, the Sector PlanPlus, but it is still possible to take steps in culture to make training an integral part of the institutions themselves. I'd appreciate it if the Minister would continue to deal with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u469	Very good. Thank you. Mr. Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u470	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I too would like to begin by expressing my thanks for the answers given by the directors and for the commitment to seek advice from the ESC on family care. I think it is going to mean a great deal in the workplace at the time when we have to make such a big call for family care, so I am glad that the cabinet is prepared to ask the ESC for advice on this. I do notice that a number of issues surrounding the AVG doctor have not been fully discussed today. We received the answers late last night, but I still have a lot of questions. I also find it difficult to understand that until Christmas there will be no conclusion for this group. I understand very well that general practitioners find it problematic that health care institutions put some of the problems on their plate. I hope that if it's possible, it's going to be Santa Claus rather than Christmas in that respect. I would like to endorse a number of motions: Mrs Laan's motion on experimental space, because I think it is important that we take a road where it becomes increasingly clear which innovations work or do not. I think that's one way of achieving that. I would also very much like to draw your attention to the motion that Mr Kerstens is about to put forward on obstacles experienced by specialists in the field of elder medicine in order to be contracted. I am thinking of the required legal status and of the fact that care should not be provided at home. I also think it is very important that I co-sign Mr Van der Staaij's motion on regulatory pressure and, in particular, on regulatory pressure developed by organisations themselves. Finally, there is another difference, or I did not come to an agreement directly when it comes to good governance. I would also like to reply to Mrs Agema about this in a moment. I shall table the next motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that De Nederlandsche Bank (DNB) assesses whether intended directors of pension funds have sufficient financial and legal knowledge to fulfil their duties;]] [[noting that the Dutch Healthcare Authority (NZa) plays a similar kind of supervisory role in the care sector as DNB in the financial sector;]] [[noting that several research reports by the NZa and IGJ, following bankruptcies and abuses, found that the management of a healthcare provider has become increasingly complex;]] [[Considers that, in particular, for members of the supervisory boards of healthcare providers with many e.g. and foundations, more and more knowledge and skills are required to exercise internal supervision;]] [[Calls on the Government to first ask the NZa to develop a test on knowledge and skills for members of supervisory boards of healthcare providers who have a complex structure of more than five e.g. and/or foundations;]] [[invites the Association of Supervisors in Health and Welfare (NVTZ) to take this test for two years and then to have it evaluated as workable;]] [[In addition, the Government invites the members of the Supervisory Board of a healthcare provider with a complex structure that are not members of the NVTZ by the IGJ to be considered as high-risk care providers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Slootweg and Mr Van den Berg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVI-49]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u471	Now Mr. Slootweg went off on such a huge scale yesterday; a proposal from me which he himself opposed two years ago, he literally put in the paper, and now he's going to pretend to submit something else. Well, it was my colleague Reinette Klever who first mentioned DNB in this house, and this is literally the same story! That's how we remember the CDA! I would like to say to Mr Slootweg or ask him: if you have to answer for your progress to your group chairman with your stack of motions adopted, would you please mention me on this motion at the source?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u472	I think Mrs Agema deserves an answer here, because she sent me a motion yesterday. I wanted to wait for the debate with the Minister on this. The difference I find in this motion is that I am here trying to limit the number of people who have to undergo this test. That is in response to the debate I had with this Minister. This is it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u473	Thank you. Then we will listen to Mr Hijink of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u474	Mr. Chairman. I think that everyone at home who has followed this debate and assumed that we are going to look forward to important changes in the system will be a little disappointed. If we have just listened carefully to the VVD, which, in fact, does not want to change the role of the health insurance provider in the current system, then that is to be feared that it will be a bit of working in the margins. Anyway, we'll see who's gonna win the battle within the coalition. At least you know which side the SP is on. I'd like to file two motions. The first concerns the proposal that we have just presented. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that low incomes and middle incomes are disproportionately taxed as a result of the monthly premium and the own risk;]] [[having noted that the Central Planning Office, the CPB, has calculated that 75% of households are making progress if the costs of care are paid out of taxes in an income-dependent manner;]] [[noting that a majority of the population is in favour of the proposal for an alternative financing of the Health Insurance Act;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibility of alternative financing of the Health Insurance Act which would remove the nominal care premium, the own risk and the care allowance and increase the income-related contribution and income tax,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVI-50]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u475	And I'd like a second motion, which reads as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the General Court conducts investigations into all ministries, government agencies covered by the Empire and legal entities carrying out legal tasks (RWTs) in order to check how these bodies spend the charges imposed by law;]] [[noting that health insurers implementing the Health Insurance Act are rvts, legal entities with a legal function, which manage large amounts of public money;]] [[noting that, under the Health Insurance Act, health insurers are excluded from supervision by the General Court;]] [[calls on the Government to review Article 121 of the Health Insurance Act and examine whether it should be revised,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVI-51]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u476	Mr. Chairman. If it's okay, I've got four minutes left. I'm just noticing. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that since the cabinet took heavy paracetamol, vitamins and minerals out of the basic package, there have been 7% fewer users of vitamin D3;]] [[noting that some chronically ill patients are taking the medicines that have been taken due to medical need and are at high cost or unable to use the medicine;]] [[calls on the government to repay heavy paracetamol, vitamins and minerals from the basic package,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVI-52]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u477	Mr. Chairman. This motion is particularly important for rheumatic patients. They're medically necessary resources. I'm gonna tell the minister again. Then the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that hospital staff have been taking action for months to improve their collective agreements and to increase their wages by 5%;]] [[Having noted that the Marijnissen and others motion for a resolution on raising wages in industry by at least 5%;]] [[believes that the government should also stand up for hospital staff and support them for the important work they do day in and day out and also retain them for the care sector in times of major staff shortages;]] [[calls on the government to make maximum efforts to meet the demands of hospital staff for a better collective agreement and a 5% higher wage,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Gerven and Mr Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVI-53]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u478	Mr. Chairman. Then there is the pink elephant that the minister hasn't actually talked about anymore. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the salaries of medical specialists united in medical-specialist companies are often not transparent, given that out of the 68 companies, only three companies have filed annual accounts that reflect the merits of these medical specialists;]] [[noting that research carried out by Zorgvisie and BDO shows that the average salary of medical specialists working in medical-specialist companies is around €260,000;]] [[Considers that it is undesirable for medical specialists working in medical-specialist companies to have an income higher than the income of a hospital administrator or other paid medical specialists;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the actual salary of medical specialists who are united in medical-specialist companies and also to examine how these medical specialists can be brought under the Law on Standards Top Incomes,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVI-54]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u479	Mr. Chairman. Finally, a few words on the last motion. We have over 6,000 specialists who may earn a ton more than a driver in the hospital or a specialist in paid employment. That amounts to EUR 600 million. It is quite unclear exactly what this is about, because those medical specialists are not transparent about what they actually deserve and because those medical-specialist companies simply do not give any openness. I would like to ask the Minister again whether the costs in hospitals are not unnecessarily increased by the fact that thousands of medical specialists are paid per operation and therefore have every interest in making a lot of turnover. There is a completely distorted relationship with specialists who are simply employed and who do not have that profit-driven incentive. We shouldn't want this, should we? Will the Minister ensure that the situation with regard to medical-specialist companies and the merits of specialists in this sector is completely transparent? Everyone has a right to that. Money for care and contributions that are paid must go to care.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u480	Thank you. Then Mrs Bergkamp from the D66 group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u481	Mr President, thank you. I would like to thank the directors for their contributions, their supporters, our supporters, the Legislative Office and, above all, all those working in the care sector. I have three motions, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that people want to grow old as long as possible safely and pleasantly in their homes and living environment;]] [[Whereas in order to support this, the Government has set up the Housing and Care Incentive Scheme as well as the Housing and Care Task Force, in order to facilitate and stimulate the creation of new forms of housing;]] [[Considering that laws and regulations can sometimes work in a tighter way and that municipalities, housing corporations, health care institutions and private initiatives should be able to share these bottlenecks so that they can be addressed;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the Task Force on Living and Care, to create an accessible hotline where municipalities, housing corporations, healthcare institutions and private initiatives can report bottlenecks, so that they can be picked up in time, and to inform the House of Representatives on the reported bottlenecks and solutions annually,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Bergkamp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVI-55]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u482	Then there's my second motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that recent reports from Kassa show that people are still experiencing difficulties in applying for (complex) tools;]] [[Considering that the "Change agenda bottlenecks Wmo tools" and administrative arrangements resulting from the adopted Bergkamp/Geluk-Poortvliet motion are not yet sufficient to bring about the desired change;]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[to develop, in consultation with interested parties, such as client organisations, the VNG and resource providers, a implementation plan in order to implement the recommendations of previous investigations and administrative agreements;]] [[to encourage regional procurement of resources;]] [[to develop, together with the aforementioned parties, a national framework of standards setting out the responsibilities of all parties and resource policy targets, and to inform the House of Representatives about the progress of these actions by the summer of 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bergkamp and Mr Geluk-Poortvliet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVI-56]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u483	My third motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the personalised budget (pgb) is an important tool that enables people to keep their own direction and give them freedom of choice;]] [[Considering that the administrative burden is a major challenge for so-called pgb parent initiatives and pgb residential initiatives, despite the already held scrapings;]] [[Considers that a group-based budget can provide a solution to that share of common costs, such as shared spaces and night care, and can lead to greater transparency;]] [[Calls on the Government to launch in 2020, together with PerSaldo, a health office region and its municipalities, a pilot with a group-based budget focusing on pgb holders and reducing administrative burdens, and to inform the House of Representatives on the results of the budget review 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bergkamp and Mr Renkema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVI-57]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u484	Two further questions on matters not reflected in the written reply. What is the situation with the family pgb, I ask the Minister. Why is the possible introduction of this dependent on the integrated pgb? Finally, a question to the Secretary of State on pgb in the Caribbean Netherlands. I understand what the Secretary of State says: that, if you look at the situation there, more is needed. My question would be: is the Secretary of State or the Minister prepared to send a letter to the Chamber in which he indicates what is needed to possibly achieve a pgb in the Caribbean Netherlands? Because there are also people who want their own direction. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u485	That was two more questions. Thank you. Then there is Mr Raemakers, also from D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u486	Mr. Chairman. Many thanks to the directors and to the support for the response. My first motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that survivors of child cancer often have late effects from cancer treatment: 75% have at least one health problem and 40% have multiple problems;]] [[Whereas the preventive "LATER care" given in the specialised centres in Utrecht and Nijmegen can provide a solution and prevent worsening;]] [[Whereas it is unclear whether health insurers want to fully reimburse this innovative form of care for the future and therefore the continued existence of these "LATER policies" is uncertain;]] [[calls on the government to engage with healthcare insurers in the Netherlands and the specialised centres, together with a view to resolving the bottlenecks for long-term agreements on "LATER care,"]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that 2,700 adolescents and young adults aged between 18 and 35 years develop cancer every year;]] [[noting that they have to deal with age-specific problems, including training, work, relationships and fertility, which require specific attention;]] [[noting that therefore the National AYA "Jong & Cancer" healthcare network has been established and there are projects in several university and general hospitals where cancer care is successfully combined with psychosocial support by an AYA care team;]] [[Whereas, despite the success of the AYA care network and the AYA care teams, the financial continuity of AYA care is still uncertain;]] [[calls on the Government, together with NFU and NVZ, to ensure that the AYA care and the AYA care network will also remain available for the future,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Healthcare Institute is currently investigating wider compensation of FGM for insulin-dependent diabetic patients, who are still finger-pricking;]] [[noting that the Minister has undertaken to ask the Healthcare Institute to also investigate wider reimbursement of CGM (without this leading to delay in the investigation of FGM), but has subsequently indicated that it will not do so because this would lead to delay;]] [[Considering that the potential benefits of CGM (with alarm function) for patients are even greater than FGM, potentially lead to significantly lower healthcare costs and more social benefits, and it is good if the Healthcare Institute also examines all the costs and benefits thereof;]] [[calls on the Government to ask the Healthcare Institute to conduct a separate investigation as soon as possible into a possible wider reimbursement of CGM and its social costs and benefits, without delaying the investigation of FGM,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in the main agreement of EUR 425 million of transformation funds was made available to healthcare providers for proper care in the right place;]] [[Considering that EUR 70 million was made available for 2019 under this framework, but the NZa monitor showed that on 1 April 2019 contracts between healthcare providers and health insurance companies only committed EUR 1,5 million of commitments;]] [[noting that these were nine (concept) contracts with a concrete agreement, out of a total of 303 contracts received;]] [[Whereas, on the basis of the preliminary results, the NZa also wonders whether the parties are on track with the transformation ambition of the main agreement and feel that urgency is sufficient;]] [[calls on the government to come forward with a plan before the end of this year on how to spend the money more effectively,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Raemakers and Mr Ellemeet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVI-58]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Raemakers and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVI-59]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Raemakers and Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVI-60]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Raemakers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVI-61]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u487	Mr. Chairman. I've got 12 seconds left. I feel like a little Matthijs from the New Church of the World is going crazy. But I think it all worked out. So I would also like to thank my own support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u488	You're welcome. Then there is the Labour Party. Mrs. Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u489	Mr. Chairman. Thank the rulers for their answers, though they were not always to my liking. I have five motions, so I'm going a little over my time. They're short, though. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, before the summer of 2020, the Cabinet promised a contour note on the future of care and possible adjustment of the system;]] [[Whereas there is insufficient knowledge of the extent to which health insurers fulfil their role in the current system;]] [[calls on the government to also describe in the contour note the role and added value of health insurers within the scheme, indicating possible adjustments,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in 2016 the NFU established a list of more than 1,300 unnecessary or nonsense treatments;]] [[Whereas, in the context of Care Evaluation and Appropriate Use, it is used to stop nonsensical care;]] [[considers that non-sense treatments not only increase costs but also do not benefit patients;]] [[invites the Chamber every six months, in consultation with the quartermaster, NFU, NVZ and the health insurers, to inform them of any treatment, possibly for certain indications, that can no longer be declared to the insurer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that every woman should be able to choose where she wants to give birth;]] [[Calls on the Government to consider whether it is possible to abolish its own contribution to the outpatient delivery without medical indication by 2021 and to inform the Court of Justice of this before consulting the Chamber on package management in June 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVI-62]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ploumen and Mr Van den Berg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVI-63]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ploumen, Mr Agema and Mr Ellemeet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVI-64]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u490	Let me ask you a quick question. I think we've already calculated the cost of that once. I understand that Mrs Ploumen is now asking the Minister to see if it could possibly be included in the 2021 package.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u491	As Mrs van den Berg puts it, that is exactly how it is. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[believes that every woman should have access to optimal contraception;]] [[considers that the choice of optimal contraception should not be determined by financial considerations;]] [[calls on the government to include contraception in the basic package,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVI-65]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u492	Finally. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that socio-economic health differences are already occurring in the womb and that a good start is of great importance for every child;]] [[Considering that maternity care is necessary care that should be available to any newborn baby;]] [[noting that own contribution to maternity care hours is a financial threshold for mothers of children who most need this care;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber before 1 April 2020 of the arrangements for establishing a scheme which includes an income limit for the own contribution to maternity care,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Ploumen, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Van Gerven and Mr Van Esch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVI-66]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u493	Mr. Chairman. I too, of course, thank the directors for their reply. I have a number of motions, and I'm going to read them to you, of course. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the specialist in the care of the elderly provides an enormous need, not only in nursing homes but also in vulnerable patients at home;]] [[noting, however, that health insurers create unnecessary obstacles in the conditions they set for the latter;]] [[calls on the government to encourage health insurers to take measures to ensure that the specialist in elderly medicine can also provide care in the neighbourhood of vulnerable patients at home by 1 January 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the supervision of providers of protected housing granted to municipalities since 2015 is not yet everywhere at the desired level four years after the date;]] [[noting that this may sometimes mean that faulty healthcare providers are often able to go on at the expense of vulnerable clients for many years, which means that care money is not spent on care;]] [[Whereas the Act of Accession, which is in preparation, does not see healthcare providers as providing a solution to providers as referred to above;]] [[invites the Government, in consultation with the Association of Dutch Municipalities, to come forward with a firm approach to health cowboys in this sector and to keep the Chamber informed of their progress,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas sound wage developments are important for an attractive care sector;]] [[Whereas it is also important for the continuity of care that agreed wage increases are translated into the rates received by healthcare providers/employers so that they can actually pay those increases to their people;]] [[noting that there were concrete agreements on this subject in the main agreements, but not in the main agreement on medical-specialist care;]] [[calls on the Government to make concrete agreements on a visible and complete translation into prices and tariffs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kerstens, Mr Slootweg and Mr Ellemeet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVI-67]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kerstens and Mr Hijink. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVI-68]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Christmas. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVI-69]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u494	I'm gonna keep going, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the so-called'subscription rate' in the WMO entered into force on 1 January last;]] [[noting that it is already apparent that this may lead to a significantly higher influx of applications from people who first paid domestic aid or aids themselves and thus lead to more costs for municipalities than foreseen;]] [[Considering that it is necessary to prevent the victimisation of vulnerable people with a narrow scholarship;]] [[calls on the Government to speed up the monitoring, evaluation and possible follow-up of additional measures announced at the time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Christmas. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVI-70]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u495	Then the last one, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas not only in the nursing home, but also in the neighbourhood, the position of older migrants (culture) requires specific attention;]] [[Whereas, as in the design and implementation of culture-specific care in nursing homes, it can also play a positive role in relation to patients with a migrant background at home NOOM, the Network of Organisations of Older Migrants;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with NOOM, to consider how this role can be achieved and what is needed for it, for example in a facilitating way,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Christmas. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVI-71]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u496	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the answers to all the questions by the directors, both in writing and orally today. I would like to touch briefly on a number of points. I am glad that next year we can give an impetus to the care of chronically ill Lyme patients. At the end of next year, the grant for the centre of expertise will end and I would very much like to see with the Minister for Medical Care how we can structurally embed the knowledge and expertise. I thank the Minister of VWS for his involvement in the care of people with long-term consciousness disorders. At the end of this year, an NZa opinion on the funding will follow. Can the Minister promise that treatment with long-term intensive neurorehabilitation can start quickly, if necessary with a bridging scheme for 2020? The patients are here, and of course you can't treat them. The need is very high! I'd like a commitment. It is good that the VWS Minister sends a letter to the Chamber about the situation of children conceived with donors from abroad. Will he also comment on how we can better inform parents, for example on how they can best guide their child in questions of descent? Mr. Chairman. I'm going very fast, because I have limited time. I'm going to read three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the training as a doctor International Health and Tropenmedicine (IGT) has been recognised since 1 January 2014 and that the training institute receives limited funding from the Ministry of VWS;]] [[believes that the training of doctor IGT should be maintained in the Netherlands and that it is important that basic doctors continue to choose this specialisation;]] [[whereas the structured transfer of knowledge acquired abroad is relevant for the Dutch health care sector, but is not taking place at present;]] [[calls on the Government to grant an additional subsidy to the International Health and Tropenmedicine Training Institute as a contribution to the costs of the training institute, as a contribution to the costs of the training itself and to encourage a structured transfer of knowledge acquired abroad for the benefit of Dutch health care, and to seek cover for this in the non-legally compulsory expenditure under Article 4 of the VWS budget,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Government Agreement expresses the ambition to improve the image of the homeless and homeless youth group and to ensure that different forms of care and support are more closely linked;]] [[noting that the number of homeless people has increased significantly over the last two years;]] [[Whereas municipalities and providers indicate the need for additional resources for the prevention, guidance and reception of homeless people;]] [[noting that this autumn the Cabinet is presenting an integrated approach to significantly reducing the number of homeless;]] [[calls on the government to ask municipalities to map the local challenges together with relevant parties as housing corporations and providers, and to inform the House of Representatives of the results before 1 March 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the good conversation in the office, in which the doctor and the patient decide on the treatment together, leads to better care;]] [[Whereas joint decision-making is part of national training plans and has also been agreed in the main agreements;]] [[Whereas training institutes shape "Together Decide" in different ways and not an education programme on "Together Decide" is available for all areas of training;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how to better anchor "Deciding together" in training and further training,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVI-72]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Regterschot, Mr Van den Berg and Mr Diertens. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVI-73]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Veldman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVI-74]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u497	Finally, Mr President. In my first term I started with my appreciation for care workers as my niece Jeanette. I would like to conclude with a word of appreciation for carers and volunteers like my mother, who today I have to say "yesterday"................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ These people are particularly valuable to their fellow human beings and to the care of the country. I would like to thank them very much. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u498	Thank you. Then Mrs. Van Esch of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u499	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Party for Animals thanks the directors for the answers to our questions. We have two follow-up questions and two motions for resolutions this evening. I think it has become clear in the debate we have had that, of course, we think it is very important for the elderly to be able to bring their pets to the nursing home. We are also pleased with the Minister's undertaking that he will discuss this again, but we say that we would like to see agreements made in these talks and that they are as much as possible the same for all nursing homes. That's when people know what they're really up to. We really want this to be taken into account in the discussions we are going to have, and we hope that a real commitment can be made. We also want to know when these talks will be held again and when we in the Chamber will hear more about them. Let's talk a little bit about Q fever. Can the Minister indicate when he expects the follow-up study on the increased risk of pneumonia in goat farms to be completed? And if so, if he knows when that is the case, can he inform the Chamber about it in good time? We are pleased to hear that the Minister is consulting with Q-support to see how to shape the support post 2021. However, patients and caregivers already need a low-threshold central centre of expertise. That is why we have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Observed that patients with Q-fever experience long-term chronic consequences;]] [[Considering that Q-support will cease to exist on 1 May 2021;]] [[Whereas there is a need from patients and caregivers for a central point for low-threshold consultation, information and referral, linking patient care, research and training;]] [[Calls on the Government to come up with a plan to ensure patient support after 1 May 2021 and to facilitate better cooperation, in the form of a central centre of expertise and in cooperation with at least patient organisations, general practitioners and specialised umc's,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Esch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVI-75]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u500	Mr. Chairman. Another motion to tackle the nitrogen crisis in order to improve our health. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that at least 8,000 children in the Netherlands have asthma due to excessive levels of nitrogen dioxide in the air;]] [[noting that the health aspect of the nitrogen crisis has so far been underexplored;]] [[calls on the government to explicitly include the public health implications of excessive concentrations of nitrogen dioxide in the government's approach to the nitrogen crisis,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Esch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVI-76]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u501	Then I have come to the end of my first full contribution to this Chamber. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u502	It's a historical fact. Mrs Sazias of the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u503	Mr. Chairman. I, too, thank the rulers for their reply. I heard a lot of good intentions yesterday and today. There will be a contour note for any change in the system. We're getting a charcoal sketch, and there's gonna be a lot of analyses and tests. In short, I have the feeling that we are also a little empty-handed here. My motion on the dentist for people from retirement age I hold in the pocket for a while after the round table discussion. So is my motion on emergency services. We'll wait until we get the charcoal sketch. But I still have three other motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Predominantly, the number of people with dementia is expected to increase explosively;]] [[Considering the high burden of illness and the personal suffering of dementia, both for the person concerned and for carers;]] [[Considering the high cost of caring for dementias;]] [[Considering the growing consensus on the positive effects of prevention in dementia, in particular on influenceable factors such as exercise and diet;]] [[Considering that experts estimate that there is a saving potential of up to 2 billion;]] [[having regard to the Deltaplan Dementie and the activities already undertaken by the Government in order to achieve a dementia-friendly society;]] [[calls on the Government, if necessary in consultation with experts and other interested parties, to consider how to make better structural efforts to prevent dementia, and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the fact that the flow of elderly people from hospitals is still not in order;]] [[Whereas there is still a significant lack of places for first-line accommodation, geriatric rehabilitation care and permanent nursing homes;]] [[having regard to the fact that there are signs that health insurance companies reduce care organisations on first-line residence and geriatric rehabilitation care if too many patients cannot return home after stay;]] [[whereas this only makes the problem worse;]] [[calls on the government to do everything in its power to prevent health insurers from cutting organisations to elv and grz in this way,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is still a great wave of ageing to come;]] [[Whereas we continue to live at home up to an age and therefore need safe homes with appropriate care;]] [[Whereas such dwellings are more expensive than regular dwellings;]] [[Whereas housing associations are important partners in achieving affordable housing on a larger scale;]] [[calls on the Government to finance the development of the concept by housing corporations of safe senior housing with appropriate care by setting up a multi-annual fund,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Sazias, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Ellemeet, Mr Ploumen, Mr Agema, Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Van Esch.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVI-77]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Sazias, Mr Kerstens, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Agema, Mr Ellemeet, Mr Van Gerven and Mr Van der Staaij.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVI-78]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Sazias, Mr Kerstens, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen and Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVI-79]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u504	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the rulers for their reply. The debate began on October 31, by some known Reform Day, and it now continues on November 1, by some known as All Saints. I would like to leave the application to the care sector to everyone's imagination, given the late hour and the limited speaking time, and submit only three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the number of people with dementia will double in the coming years and the number of deaths from dementia will also increase significantly;]] [[Considering that the Deltaplan Dementie has made a valuable contribution in recent years to improving care for people with dementia;]] [[noting that the delta plan expires in 2020;]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[ensure the long-term continuation of the action plan;]] [[examine whether the associated Memorabel research programme can be stepped up in relation to the current situation;]] [[make proposals for this at the next budget debate;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the government is firmly committed to significantly reducing the regulatory burden in the care sector;]] [[noting that regulatory pressure is not only caused by bottlenecks at national level, but also by unnecessary obligations of health care institutions themselves;]] [[noting that only 22% of employees in the care sector experience that their employer has been engaged in reducing the regulatory burden in the last year;]] [[calls on the Government to actively promote the work of every healthcare institution to reduce regulatory burdens and to support healthcare institutions in doing so,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Ellemeet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVI-80]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij and Mr Slootweg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVI-81]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u505	Finally. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas practice has shown that care can sometimes not be provided, or can only be provided with difficulty, as recent reports have shown, for example, with regard to aid policy or people waiting for weeks in a hospital bed at a place in the nursing home;]] [[Whereas such situations are not always clearly and timely noted;]] [[Considers that the progress reports of the various action programmes mainly provide a macro-level picture;]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[in consultation with at least the National Ombudsman, the National Reporting Point for Healthcare and the Right Loket to consider how future progress reports can bring experiences from healthcare practice and existing macro-image closer together;]] [[consider whether additional measures are necessary and possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van der Staaij and Bergkamp. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVI-82]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u506	It is indeed a proposal for the deletion of this support wording, but of course the Court still has to agree with that. That wish must in any case be supported by sufficient members of this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u507	That's right. I won't miss it, but I'm speaking on my own behalf. Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen is the last speaker on the side of the Chamber. After that, we are going to listen very quickly to the comments of the rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u508	Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, I have five motions, so I'm not gonna make it in one minute. So I'm walking out, with your permission. First of all, thanks to the rulers for their reply. I have five motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas children with brain stem cancer currently have a life expectancy of only two to twelve months after diagnosis;]] [[Whereas brain stem cancer is the most lethal form of cancer in children;]] [[Whereas, through the Academic Care Availability Contribution, funds are made available to, inter alia, institutions carrying out research and treatment into these rare types of child cancer;]] [[Considering that research into a treatment for brain stem cancer is important to increase survival;]] [[calls on the Government to highlight the importance of brain stem cancer research in children at treatment centres,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that on 1 July 2014 an amendment of the law which makes it easier to amend the indication of the sex in the birth certificate entered into force;]] [[noting that this also changes the data in the BRP (Basis Registration Persons), on the basis of which invitations are sent for the population surveys cervical cancer and breast cancer;]] [[noting that the risk profile for people with a transgender background may be different due to the fact that they have often been or have been under long-term medical care and have undergone far-reaching treatments and are advised to discuss the usefulness of participation with a general practitioner or specialist;]] [[Whereas people with a transgender background are not always aware of this and therefore lack the desired screening for cervical cancer and breast cancer, with all the consequences;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that, in the event of a legal gender change, people are actively advised that this has an impact on the receipt of invitations to public examinations of cervical cancer and breast cancer, and that they can sign up to or reject this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting the preventive effects of maternity care in the identification of risk situations, infections and nutritional problems;]] [[noting that the NZa hourly rate is not cost-effective;]] [[noting that the outflow of staff within maternity care is worryingly high;]] [[noting that according to the FNV Barometer of Care & Wellness 82% of employees experience the workload as too high;]] [[noting a sickness absence of 10% or more;]] [[Whereas the current workload and working conditions mean that the water is in the hands of the maternity care staff;]] [[noting that the NZa is conducting a cost investigation;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure, in the short term, a bridging mechanism in order to improve working conditions in maternity care as early as 2020, pending the NZA cost investigation, whose outcome and the resulting measures will only have an impact on the 2021 rates,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the glucose sensors FGM and CGM are currently only reimbursed for limited groups, rather than for all diabetic patients receiving intensive insulin therapy;]] [[noting that extensive scientific research has already been carried out at home and abroad on the impact of glucose sensors FGM and CGM on the quality of life, health, reduction of care demand and costs and other societal benefits;]] [[noting that, in response to the positive results of this scientific research, scientists and diabetes organisations advocate compensation for all diabetic patients receiving intensive insulin therapy;]] [[noting that the Cabinet does not intend to introduce wider compensation for FGM and CGM before the Healthcare Institute has carried out its own research and has given its opinion, and may last for CGM for years to come;]] [[Whereas the longer it takes for wider compensation of glucose sensors to be introduced, the more diabetic patients are unnecessarily affected by irreversible physical effects of diabetes that can be less well controlled by finger pricking, such as blindness, renal failure, cardiovascular disease, neuropathy, cognitive damage and much shorter life expectancy;]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[ask the Healthcare Institute to take note of the results of scientific studies on, and broad reimbursement of glucose sensors abroad;]] [[to avoid unnecessary duplication of investigations leading to unnecessary delays;]] [[hastening to deliver its opinion on wider compensation of FGM and CGM for all diabetic patients receiving intensive insulin therapy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Kooten-Arissen and Raemakers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVI-83]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Bergkamp, Mr Ploumen and Mr Ellemeet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVI-84]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Ploumen, Mr Sazias and Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVI-85]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Sazias, Mr Ploumen, Mr Ellemeet and Mr Agema.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVI-86]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u509	My final motion, Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that any investigation by the Healthcare Institute into the reimbursement of the glucose sensor CGM for diabetic patients with intensive insulin therapy has yet to be initiated;]] [[Considering that CGM compensation is already in place in many Western European countries, and that due to this years of experience, CGM reimbursement is known to be necessary for safe care, less risk to patients and cost savings;]] [[Whereas the treatment of patients with intensive insulin therapy is a specialised and rapidly developing field, of which physicians in other disciplines have insufficient current knowledge and practical experience;]] [[Invites the Government to advise the Healthcare Institute, in a possible examination of the wider remuneration of the CGM glucose sensor:]] [[establish a working group on CGM;]] [[consisting of internists or endocrinologists, diabetes nurses, pediatricians, patients and health insurers who have experience and knowledge of the treatment of intensive insulin therapy;]] [[those based on the latest scientific publications and knowledge gained by CGM fee in other Western European countries;]] [[assess and assess the need for CGM remuneration,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Sazias, Mr Ploumen, Mr Ellemeet and Mr Agema.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XVI-87]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u510	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u511	It is the parliamentary custom that rulers should comment on the motions at the same speed, so the Van Kooten-Arissen motions are getting agitated. I'll suspend for ten minutes. We have 56 motions. That's 13 less than last year, so that's going in the right direction. I'll suspend until 11:30 and then we'll listen to the rulers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u512	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u513	Mr President, thank you. We have a solid package of motions and we still have a few questions. In short, the second term. We're gonna try to do it pointy. Mr Van der Staaij already recalled it, it was yesterday, meanwhile, Reform Day. The castle chapel, Maarten Luther, 95 positions. That's what I had to think about in the huge pile of motions. It was not 95, but 56, I think you said just now, Mr President. But nevertheless, it's a hell of a number. There is also something of a reform-minded spirit, you could say, and that too is, of course, beautiful, as day after Reform day. I think it was a very nice and very substantive debate. We've talked a lot. We have also talked a lot about the future, as we have talked about many of the bottlenecks that are now calling for a solution. We're all gonna work on that. I'll answer a few outstanding questions first. The CDA is asking for the commitment to come up with a letter just before Christmas. We are talking about the 100 places, the outpatient teams and especially the complex cases. I'd like to go into that, albeit that letter might come just after the Christmas break, but at least we'll make sure he really comes right after the Christmas break. Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union asks for a letter on Denmark. At least, I promised it, and she reminded me of that commitment. I shall come back to other questions raised by her and by Mr Van der Staaij. Mrs Van Esch of the Party for Animals asks for the commitment to make agreements. I have said that I am going to work with great enthusiasm with enthusiasm. Next Monday, that's how I made up my agenda, I happen to be at a nursing home care location with a lot of animals, so I'm going to take a closer look at it all. I shall return to that in a letter in your direction. Let us continue the debate from there to see if that is enough as far as you are concerned. I promised Mrs Ellemeet that I would answer the question when the legislation will come in order to enable the Wlz to take preventive action. I'm exploring those possibilities. Because there are different elements in it, I really need to see how complicated it is and how much time that takes. In any case, before the end of the year, I will come back to the question of what is the route I intend to take. Mrs. Dik-Faber asked for intensive neurorehabilitation. I'm just going to promise you that letter, Mrs. Dik-Faber. You know how to interrupt, don't you? But I hope to have made you happy with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u514	But not happy enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u515	The point is that there is an ongoing investigation into the funding of long-term intensive neurorehabilitation. At the end of this year, the NZa will issue an opinion on the funding. My question was whether the Minister could promise that this funding could start very quickly, if necessary with a transitional arrangement for 2020. The patients are there and not treating them is not an option. That was my question to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u516	Yeah, but we do things in the right order. So you will first have the advice and then I will come up with a letter in which I will address exactly the question you are asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u517	Then I hope that letter says that funding has been arranged for 2020. But I'll see about that. Otherwise, I'll come back to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u518	Yes, let me put things in the right order: first the advice and then the policy response to that advice. Yes. Mr. Chairman. Then there is D66's question about the different pgb initiatives: the integral pgb and the family pgb. Mrs Bergkamp asks about the relationship between the family-pgb and the integral pgb. The family-pgb is not currently regulated by law, but is part of agreements around the experiment integral pgb. The family-pgb experiments are expected to start in early 2020. Mr. Chairman. I guess I'm just gonna get started on the shitty pile of motions. I will always try to mention the motion number. The motion in part No. 32 is the motion on Mrs. Agema's full-time bonus. I think we have had a good debate on this. Of course, I would like to comment on the collective agreements and the responsibilities surrounding collective agreements, but I would like to get to work on this homework assignment, because I think it is a truly fine idea. I'll get back to your room on that. I shall therefore leave this motion to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 33 is about overhead. Moreover, the observations and considerations are remarkably consistent and consistent with our own policy agenda. That is a beautiful and new experience that I do not want to leave unnamed. But the operative part is slightly different. I do intend to work hard with that overhead, and also with an overhead standard, because I just think that's a good idea, but I also know how incredibly complicated it is to really create a hold for that so that you can also link financial decisions to that. I would therefore like to do it in the following order. I want the NZa to make this possible in a good way through the integrated comparison we are using and then use the opportunity to actually achieve a standard that can also have financial consequences. In this form, I therefore advise against the motion. Then the motion to part No. 35. That is yet another motion with excellent observations and considerations, but we have had the debate on the operative part quite extensively in six companies. That's why you suspected I was going to dissuade this motion. The motion in part No. 38 is about the experimental room improvement care. There are a number of considerations and requests that are about giving a landing site and a small ass to get ahead of initiators who are working on a special form of innovation that just doesn't fit into the boxes, shots and rules. I'd like to get to work on that. I shall therefore leave the judgment to the Chamber. Then there's the motion on the Euthanasia Expertise Center. We talked about that. It is important that general practitioners have sufficient knowledge of euthanasia. Of course, the professional groups have the primary responsibility to provide for this training and consultation. That responsibility is also being taken. I see the offer of the Euthanasia Expertise Centre as a valuable addition. Indeed, I understand your plea to ensure that this offer is made available to everyone. In any case, I have already indicated that I am going to talk to the centre of expertise about this. I therefore leave the judgment on this motion and on whether it is necessary to submit it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u519	Does the minister want to be consistent and call the number every time? That'll help us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u520	Yes. Hey! I had intended to do so, just as I had intended to be extra succinct. This was about the motion in part No. 39, in the direction of Mr Van Gerven, in the direction of the entire SP Group. The motion in part No. 40 is about the conversation between GP and patient. We have indicated how important this is and what we are doing about it. I see here the call for an action plan in which we are going to promote it even further. I assume that's what you wish for. I'm not against it either. I just don't have a lot of ideas in my head for what I could add to what we're doing right now. But perhaps that's exactly what you're talking about in this motion. I therefore leave the judgment to the Chamber on this point too. Then I'll go to the motion in part no. 50. That is the motion of the SP, in which the cabinet is asked to investigate the possibility of alternative financing of the Zvw: the removal of the premium, the removal of the supplement and the removal of the own risk. We have had a wide-ranging debate on this. You already felt a little bit that I don't necessarily need this because I don't think this is our biggest assignment for this time. I would advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 49. The previous one was No. 50, it's not the right order. The suspension was only ten minutes and there are so many motions. I am referring now to the motion in part No. 49. It's also to make sure you stay a little sharp. It is Mr Slootweg's motion. I have to say that the motion has been made creatively in relation to the initial idea, but I still find it very complicated to see the implications of this. That's one. Two. We have, of course, indicated that we asked the inspection and the NZa to see how internal and external supervision could be improved, on the basis of the description they made at the time. I would actually ask Mr Slootweg to give us an opportunity to work that out. Then I'd better see the implications of the operative part. I'd like to ask you to hold the motion. I will see to it that the letter is with the Chamber on the basis of the detailed examination of the inspection before the turn of the year. Then perhaps we can continue the debate on that basis. For the time being, I would ask you to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u521	I don't really understand. In my view, the Minister has made it very clear that it is, above all, a practical problem to review all kinds of healthcare providers, or at least members of the supervisory boards. Okay, so I did abbreviate the motion, so it's really about where knowledge and skill are needed for the complex cases. I might have expected the Minister to take that up, for example, that he encounters five very much. But I think the direction of the motion is quite clear: where knowledge and skill are needed because it is about such a complex organization, where the NZa has just given it to the IGJ, I find it a bit... surprised.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u522	We have had the debate, not so much about... We do not disagree with the view that you can make very firm demands on internal supervisors and that you can test them properly. We don't disagree on that. At least, that a test could have added value, we do not disagree. I have just said that it is quite impossible to invest the design at the NZa. Alternatively, you chose a very precise effect, namely a complex structure, more than five e.g. foundations or foundations. I don't know how many of those 25,000 have more than five e.g. foundations. I do not know whether this is a meaningful indication of the degree of complexity. There will also be large healthcare institutions that are just one foundation with zero e.g. below it, but with a budget of 400 to 600 million. That is also not small in terms of complexity. The number of foundations does not necessarily seem to me to be sufficient to demonstrate the degree of complexity. To name one thing. The second hesitation I have concerns that test. I do not know what it should look like and who it should relate to. According to the motion, I must also have it taken away for another two years and then have it evaluated whether it is workable. Why is that? Why two years? I just have a lot of questions at the level of detail of this motion. I'd like to let it work on me first. We did not just have the debate on this. I don't know if this is a meaningful addition. I'm just a little worried, let's just say, I'm adding a bunch of paper for little effect. To be honest, I don't feel that much about that. I just want to get a good look at the motion. I would ask you to hold the motion until we have had a better look at it ourselves. Two. Until I also have the advice of the inspection, the IGJ, and of the NZa on the basis of their own description in which they have said that they need to improve internal and external supervision. Well, let's have some suggestions. Then we will see if this proposal fits in with that, whether it still makes sense or whether there are better ideas. I think this is too much of a hip hop.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u523	I am glad that the Minister initially indicated that he thought it was well worked out. If the Minister states "except for an e.g. I also think there should be a turnover standard," you will not find me on your way to doing so. You're asking me to arrest him. The chairman wants to move on. I'm gonna go sleep on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u524	Let's do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u525	What if he's not arrested?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u526	Then I'm gonna tell her not to. Then I go to Mrs Bergkamp, with the motion on part No. 55. I was going to say that, of course. Herein is the request to the Cabinet to add a hotline to the Task Force Living and Care. That seems to me to be a very useful addition, so I leave the judgment to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 56 is from Mrs Bergkamp and Mrs Geluk-Poortvliet and requests that we proceed with the Kassa broadcast. We are working with an action team and a plan of action for its more structural solution, also on the basis of the previous studies and so on. Last Tuesday, I realized administrative commitment. I can leave this motion to the House with peace of mind, because it really is support policy. I shall come back to that before the summer of 2020. In the shorter term, I will report what we have already done and picked up and how we see the structural trajectory ahead of us. I'll do that in a shorter time. The Bergkamp/Renkema motion in part No. 57 calls for a pilot to be launched with a group-based budget focusing on the pgb holders and the reduction of administrative burdens. Who could be against that, you'd say. However, I am going to ask her to hold, because I have already started two studies that focus on putting the budget holder at the centre and simplifying and reducing the administrative burden on residential and elderly initiatives. This is the origin of the debate on the older people's initiatives we have had. The first study deals with quality, legality and administrative burdens. The second research concerns a clear financing of small-scale housing initiatives. At the moment I have these studies carried out in order to get a clearer picture of the advantages and disadvantages of working with pgbs that apply to groups. The implementation of such an instrument naturally involves complex issues and is most likely to lead to rather fundamental changes. I would like to inform the Chamber in March 2020 about the results of these investigations. I would ask you to hold the motion until then, because here too we are going to make a run for it while we simply have this under investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u527	I think that's reasonable, so I'm holding the motion. I've just been looking at the co-subscriber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u528	At the request of Mrs Bergkamp, I propose her motion (35300-XVI, No. 57). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u529	The motion in part No. 62 calls for a description of the role and added value of health insurers within the current system, indicating possible adjustments. We have talked about how I see that and how I see the description of the role of insurers. That was a little more precise than this. By leaving the opinion on this motion to the Chamber, I might unintentionally suggest that I am looking in particular for the role of insurers, while I have just once again argued that it is not just about the role of insurers, but at all about incentives between those three systems and also about the other financiers of care. I don't really feel like this. I do not really see the role and added value of this motion in relation to the debate we have just had. For that reason, I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u530	It is up to the Chamber to state in the vote the added value of a motion. There is not for nothing the word "also": also the role and added value of health insurers. The Minister's right. It would be a bit crazy if that note were just about the health insurance companies. I listened very carefully to him and, as always, translated his words into a motion. So I'd say, let's just find each other here. I didn't give any explanation about the direction. I want to be sure, that is the purpose of this motion, that in that contour note also reflects on one of the main players. In fact, I am encouraged by the reaction of your fellow Minister Bruins, who was a little less keen on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u531	You mean by this motion, I think more than is on paper right now. You never know if a motion like that will suddenly start to dissipate after a debate. I will continue to dissuade this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u532	You can do that, but what you see is what you get. I've translated your words. You can discourage the motion, fine. However, after two days of debate, after listening carefully to each other's intentions, I also think it is decent to want to understand each other's intentions in the way they are really expressed. That is why we have motions and that is why we choose our words carefully. If the Minister says he doesn't want to talk about it at all or if he doesn't want to be on the lead of the Labour Party, that's fine, but I just have pure intentions with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u533	I wouldn't question that. I had not yet come to the conclusion of the Labour Party, but since you put it that way, I do not really feel like running on the lead of the Labour Party. That's just a whole new argument. But seriously, I think I've been crystal clear. If I were to leave the motion to the Court's judgment, I would not do justice to the discussion we have just had. I'd really like to let it go if I didn't. I do not see what the added value is or what the change of course might suddenly mean in relation to the conversation we just had in the first period. Then the motion to part No. 70, by Mr Kerstens. It calls on the government to speed up the monitoring, evaluation and possible follow-up measures announced at the time. It's about monitoring the subscription rate. We have indicated very carefully in the treatment of the subscription rate what I can deliver at what time. That's just about when the numbers are available. I can't speed that up, so I'm not going to. I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u534	We have noticed that the Minister is not accelerating it, because the first monitor was due to come in September, then in October and in the written reply we saw that it will be December. In the meantime, the minister will have heard those sounds too. It rains signals from municipalities that it has a bit more effect than had been estimated. I am not saying that we need to push that December date into November, but I would like the Minister to consider whether the rest of the monitoring process could perhaps be brought forward, so that we can see earlier whether there is a need for additional measures, as the Minister himself has indicated. Because if we don't, we're gonna be three years away, and we're not gonna be able to control the misery.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u535	No, we're not three years away. Indeed, it was not possible to achieve this in October, as promised. It'll take a month longer. But it's more of a qualitative explanation. It is not that there are all kinds of numbers in there that say exactly whether the call that has now been made on the Wmo based on the introduction of the subscription rate has been higher than expected. Not in the numbers, but in the qualitative explanation. Next year in spring, I believe in April or May, comes the first quantitative list, because then for the first time an entire year has ended and the numbers are in at that time. We have really talked about this in detail in the legal process. I can't just speed that up. All this has to do with the data collection that is also apparent from such an investigation. Monitoring has been extensively agreed, including with the VNG. The VNG itself is very enthusiastic about this monitoring. I can't speed this up, so I'm not going to. Then the motion to part No. 71, in which the Government is invited to examine, in consultation with NOOM, how this role can be developed and what it needs to be done. We grant NOOM support for guidance on care for the elderly in the nursing homes. Of course, we can convey the idea to NOOM, but I think it is their job to take it on. If I may interpret the motion in this way, I can leave the verdict to the Chamber. The motion in part No. I am not going to recommend it, because you are asking for a multiannual fund to be set up. We've set up an incentive arrangement. First of all, let us get it out of the way, because that is not yet the case. So I'm going to dissuade a multi-annual fund. By the way, if you look at the twice a billion that the Home Secretary has to spend, I can really assume that there is enough money. I don't think money's gonna be our problem here either. Then there is the Van der Staaij/Ellemeet motion on part No. 80, on the follow-up to the Delta Plan Dementie, which expires in 2020. I'm working on that sequel. That's what we're doing. I hope to be able to inform you of this in November, so this is support policy as far as I am concerned. On this point, I leave the judgment to the Chamber. Then there is the Van der Staaij/Bergkamp motion on part No. 82, about experiences from healthcare practice. It is a pity that we have not been able to have the debate on this in the first term. So this is just a motion and there is quite a bit in it; as a manna from heaven this motion suddenly comes to us, I would almost say. There is quite a bit in what might be worth a discussion, namely about those progress reports. In the progress reports on the programs, I consciously choose: counting and telling. It's not just numbers, it's always counting and telling. I'm just trying to stay as close to those experiences as I can. Then how can you ever meet someone who experiences anything other than what you've just read in the monitor? That, on its own, is not illogical. If there are over a million people working in care and really experiencing millions of people care, then it is almost impossible, if you get an objective view of that progress and that reality in the program monitor, then you can actually meet all kinds of people who actually experience something else. Only that objective reality we try to get as faithfully as possible and as close to real reality as possible. That's one: counting and telling. Something else might be a possible interpretation of what you're asking here. If I could explain the motion like that, I could use it. We have a lot of casuism, not only through the Right Loket, but also through our Unit Complex Care Questions. We get them from all angles and holes of the system, sometimes from your mailbox, at least I get them and I have a conversation with our officials about that. Then we make detailed reports on the content of the case. What are the red wires? If there's a real thread, we'll start a practice team. We have done this, for example, in the case of palliative care. This often leads to policy changes. That's how we deal with it. Those signals, what we get and which red threads can be distilled from them, that might be an interesting progress report to send to you. If I may interpret the motion in that way, I can leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u536	In fact, it's actually nicely formulated what was meant to be. In that sense, the motion did not fall out of the sky as it was based on those incidents which Mrs Bergkamp and I have mentioned. We've been asking how we can get on with that. By looking at whether you can enrich the monitor that is there with experiences at different counters and those other examples, so indeed, agree with this interpretation of the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u537	Okay, fine. In the first recital there is something about resource policy, but I am sending a separate letter. On last Saturday's article in de Volkskrant, I had already promised Mrs Sazias to come up with a separate letter, so I will do that separately. Then I'll deal with the operative part this way, and then I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. I say it with some caution, but I think that I have answered all the questions and provided an opinion on all the motions and amendments. Then I have a few brief final remarks. Of course, I would like to thank everyone for the debate and for the contributions to this debate. I thought it was a nice, substantive and forward-looking debate. There is no doubt that we are going to follow up on this many more times. Two. I would very much like to thank the VWS officials, looking at the prison, the lodge, for the really great support in the last few days, weeks and years. Especially in such an intensive budgeting time you as a minister lean with your full weight on what you get from the civil service, because it is so much and can be so complex, so thank you very much for the great support. Three: it's 1:00 a.m. by now. We started yesterday at 3:00 p.m., so I'm afraid I'm gonna have to fire my crispness coach tomorrow. I'll do that first thing in the morning: firing coaches, that's how we do it in Rotterdam. He's earned it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u538	Those coaches in Rotterdam often leave on their own.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u539	Yeah, that happens sometimes, but not this one. This one stays close to me. But there will be a vacancy in that post, Mr. Chairman. You can also apply. Mr President, finally, a tradition which I have adopted from Mr Van Rijn, I must say to Mr Van der Staaij. Traditionally, I conclude my contribution to the budgetary treatment with an appropriate Bible quote, of course for Mr Van der Staaij and for anyone who would like to be addressed by it. I came up with a number spell by Agur from Proverbs 30. "Four animals are the smallest on earth, but they are extremely wise: the ants - they are not strong, but already in summer they make a stock; the cliff ties - they are not powerful, but they make holes in the rocks; the locusts - a king they don't have, but they advance in battle; The lizards - you can catch them with your hands, but they penetrate into the king's palace." It is not a question of recording exactly whether all these animals will be welcome in the nursing home, but these animals stand for something. The ant shows us that we need to prepare for the future in time. If we start on time, we can achieve a great deal. That inspires me in making the contour note and in all the preparation for the ageing population that is coming. The clip ties protect themselves in the holes from danger. In this way, we must also protect care from the health cowboys who threaten care. The locusts show that you also don't have to arrange everything from above to create something organized. And finally, the lizards. These are brave animals, who come to places where people do not dare - the king's palace. And we will also need that courage to prepare the care for the future in the years to come. I look forward to all the debates we will have on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u540	Dominus vobiscum. I am happy to give the floor to Minister Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u541	Mr. Chairman. Without duties, I will simply give a response to a number of motions. The motion in part No. 34 about an overhead standard in the cure. I'm deceiving that motion. We're not going to send on an overhead standard from above. I therefore advise against the motion in part No. 34.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u542	I have tabled four motions which deal very specifically with the organization of care, about which these rulers are crying so horribly murder and fire. Now one in seven is needed in the care, which will be one in four. These leaders can no longer afford to ignore all these proposals. We need the people in the overhead right now. We need the people who are spending so much time on administration right now. We need the people who are still working part-time. In 2010 this was already in the coalition and tolerated agreement. I ask the Minister: when does he come up with an overhead standard?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u543	It's all too common for me to come up with such a overhead standard. It is very good that some people carry out completely dedicated administrative tasks. It is good that people carry out education and research tasks. So imposing such a general standard from above, no, we're not gonna do that. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 36 deals with the inventory of proven cost-effective digital innovations. Judgement Chamber, Chairman. I think it should not only be an inventory; it should also lead to a summit so many with the best and most useful and well-shared initiatives. Then the motion to part No. 37, on the scaling-up of the kidney teams at home. Judgment Room. I have a heartfelt heartfelt interest in the "kidney team at home" project. I think it is important that relatives of kidney patients are well informed if they are considering donating a kidney. The scaling-up of the current initiatives seems to me to be a good thing. The motion in part No. 41 calls on the government to develop a plan of action to develop the ambitions of the government agreement on the circular economy. Judgment Room. I have already said a lot about this in the debate. Then the motion to part No. 42 on outcome information and its use in Together deciding for vulnerable elderly. In my introduction, I did not say much about deciding together for nothing. I think that is an important project. I am also really looking forward to the change that will start next year, in which joint decision-making is anchored as a right. In this case, it is specifically about vulnerable elderly people. I am almost certain that we will also ask for it for other groups in society, if I may put it that way. I think that is important, so it is up to the Chamber to decide on the motion in part No. 42. Then the motion to part No. 43. It calls for consultation with pharmacists and health insurers to promote a number of topics on knowledge sharing in the best possible way. Let me first say that I do not know the signals as expressed in the motion. But if I may read the text in such a way that I may bring these three points to the attention of pharmacists and insurers, then I would like to leave the judgement to the Chamber. I shall deal with the subject before the forthcoming consultation with the umbrella organizations of pharmacists and insurers. In between a question by Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA, about diet treatments for children: should you not look carefully at whether the number of hours of children's diet to be compensated should be raised? In the written questions, we have said that there is a programme of prevention in the healthcare system, in which attention can be paid to this issue. Then there will be no separate research, but then it will be done in this programme. I repeat what Mrs van den Berg has already read. She asked: can we get more information about this, for the AO package? I'm going to give you an update before then anyway. I do not know if I have the information requested, but for the June 2020 AO package, I am going to offer you the current state of affairs. Then the motion to part No. 46. It asks the government to look at the charcoal sketch at a single national emergency number. I referred to this in my text as 'the control tower', but the idea appeals to me. I'm going to include that in the sketch on acute care. Judge Room, then. Then the motion to part No. 47. It is about the structural safeguarding of the public interest and about the inclusion of that point in the charcoal sketch. As far as I am concerned, this motion will be judged by Chamber, if I may take the motion in such a way that the public interest must be protected. "Public interest" means that in the pre-decision considerations, the interest of residents, patients and public administration is guaranteed. But as far as I am concerned, public interests include quality, availability, availability of staff, accessibility and affordability. So if we explain it that way, I'm all for it. But if you mean that changes in the acute care landscape should be publicly controlled, determined or organised, then I am not in favour of that. Can I take the first reading? I see the petitioner nodding yes, so I'll give this motion judgment Chamber. That was the motion in part No. 47. Then I'll go to the motion in part no. 48. It invites the government to investigate the possibilities and opportunities for bringing product locations for medicines to the Netherlands. I stressed in my first term that I want to work on this at European level, in view of the possibilities in the Netherlands. So I want to put that research in an international perspective. And in view of the arrival of EEA in the Netherlands, we are certainly also looking at the opportunities that this offers for manufacturing locations for medicines in the Netherlands. If I may give the motion this explanation, then the verdict is Chamber. That was the motion in part No. 48. Then the motion to part No. 51: I will not advise them. This is a proposal to consider whether Article 121 of the Health Insurance Act can be evaluated and reviewed. We almost had this discussion at a recent AO. When the Zvw is created, the way in which the health insurance companies use their financial resources is deliberately excluded from the supervision by the General Court, since health insurance companies are private-law organisations that need to have space to buy good and efficient care for their insured persons. We have opted for a private law system in the Netherlands. This is not in order to include the way in which health insurers use funds under the supervision of the General Court. That fits the role of the NZa. The motion in part No. 51 has therefore been dissuaded. Then the motion to part No. 52 in which the government is asked to reimburse heavy paracetamol, vitamins and minerals from the basic package. We have also discussed this on a number of occasions. I advise against this motion. I did say that I would have the consequences of the package measure monitored by NIVEL, with special attention to substitution. That monitor is scheduled for June 2020. Apart from that, as I said to Mrs Ploumen earlier, I have received signals from health insurers about a significant increase in the use of vitamin D in weekly and monthly doses. I think this is a worrying development, because that raises the question of whether there is an unnecessary use of higher strength. That is why I am talking to the parties involved, such as the prescribers, the pharmacists and the health insurance companies, about this signal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u544	It is probably true that there is a need to prescribe more expensive medicines at higher doses, including painkillers. What does the Minister think of the fact that fewer patients also take vitamin D, in the context of preventing bone fractures? Because with that there is an additional risk of health damage.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u545	We have talked about this several times. We have made the choice to take a number of things out of the package and to monitor its consequences. Before I give you any idea, I'd like to have that monitor first. I will then be able to formulate a well-founded opinion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u546	Rounding up. The figures show that there is less vitamin D use, related to the prevention of bone fractures. Shouldn't that be the Minister's signaling? Then you can wait until June next year, but that's no good to people now. Can the Minister look at this in the interim and give an interim opinion on these figures?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u547	No, I'll wait for the monitor. Then the motion to part No. 53. It calls on the government to make maximum efforts to meet the demands of hospital staff for a better collective agreement and a 5% increase in pay. I advise against this motion. We are following the systematic and the negotiations conducted by social partners, employers and employees. It's their move. The motion in part No. 53 I advise against. The motion in part No. 54 is about the actual salary of the medical specialists. In the written reply we discussed this in detail. I would particularly like to focus on the theme of equality rather than Mr Van Gerven's suggestion. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 54. Then I'll go to the motion in part no. 58.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u548	What's the verdict if I split the motion? In doing so, I would ask the Minister to find out what is really going on with the salaries, incomes and financial conversions of these medical-specialist companies. After all, the Minister must agree with me that we must be completely transparent about what is going on in those medical-specialist companies. That is what we ask of all healthcare companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u549	Split? But I just said that I want to focus on the theme of consistency. And this split doesn't cover that. So the answer remains: no, I don't think that's a good idea. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 58 is about "later care." As far as I am concerned, I leave the assessment of this motion to the Chamber, explaining that I will forward this motion to the Dutch health insurance companies and the NFU with the request to take serious note of the wish of the House of Representatives. I think that's important. What I don't want to do is this. That's why I'm a little careful. I don't want to get into the contract thing between healthcare providers and health insurance companies. But I would like to pay attention to it from this debate. If I may read the motion in this way, I'll leave it to the Chamber. Then AYA care. That's what we talked about in the first place. The request in the motion concerns two things. AYA care is basically insured care. It will therefore remain available. It runs through the contract. It's a bit like the previous subject. I would also like to say to Mr Raemakers that the AYA healthcare network will continue to be available as a platform for the future, and I would like to bring to the attention of the institutions that have set up the regional AYA networks. I will emphasise, as I said in the first term, that something extra is expected of them because of their special position. By awarding the academic care availability contribution, they should use their public infrastructure to ensure the financial continuity of activities such as the AYA care network. If I may read the motion in this way, I'll leave it to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 60, which asks the government to conduct a separate investigation into the wider remuneration of CGM (continuous glucose monitoring) Judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. 61 calls on the government to come up with a plan before the end of this year on how the money for transformation can be spent more effectively. I didn't really intend to come up with a plan. I'll discuss these questions in the administrative consultation. I have already said that I come to the contract monitor with the state of play on expenditure. For that reason, I advise against the motion in part No. 61.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u550	Mr Raemakers, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u551	This is about tens of millions. And we get the next evaluation point on 1 April 2020. Then we'll have to wait six months. So what can the Minister himself do, except that he puts it on the table in all kinds of meetings and that he discusses it? But what is the Minister going to do in concrete terms to improve the situation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u552	Exactly what I said. I'll discuss these questions in the administrative consultation I have with the health insurance companies. We are ten months away and half a day almost on the road with the expenditure on those transformation funds. I really think you should monitor that year after year. That's what I agreed to. That's gonna be on that monitor, too. And in the meantime... I think there should be room. I think that in that first year there is a logical reduction in the amount of money spent on transformation. And I think that will grow, although I do not call on anyone, not even the health insurance companies, to throw it all over the beam. So I'm gonna stick with the dissuade, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u553	I take note of it and I will consider the text.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u554	Whew!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u555	Bon. Then the motion to part No. 63 which the Government requests the Chamber to inform each six months, in consultation with the quartermaster and so on, of the treatments which can no longer be declared to the health insurers, if necessary for certain indications. My eye is on that "every six months." I said we report on the programme every year. Every six months is too much. I would point out that the programme is not only about stopping nonsensical care but also about encouraging good care. But the most important thing is that I advise against doing it every six months. We're not gonna take care of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u556	Mrs Ploumen, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u557	In a few minutes, just tens of millions of care money will not be collected here by this minister. I'm really sorry about that. What is wrong with informing the Chamber every six months about an important programme in which no sense of care can be avoided? We fight here for every euro for patients. For every euro. The Cabinet says to do the same. Then it would also be a good thing to assess the constructive suggestions of the Chamber, which support them, with a little more goodwill, because we look at them from the same perspective. What we see now is that these 1,300 nonsense treatments were not put on a list yesterday, but earlier. And they're still being compensated. You cannot blame us as a Chamber for wanting to keep our finger on the financial pulse and to check whether the money, the taxpayers' money, the premium money, the money that belongs to patients is being properly spent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u558	I certainly do not blame you, quite the contrary. But I believe I said in the first term that I think there is another move. That's the insurance company. Because insurers need to buy tight and not buy unnecessary treatments. So there is also a great importance for them to get to work on this. In addition, I believe that if we set up such a programme by Mr Repping, with an annual report, that is a good frequency. I think you can expect something from the annual results.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u559	Mr President, very briefly. If the health insurers were to take that role now and show convincingly that they are no longer paying for those treatments, I would not have gone to the trouble with Mrs Van den Berg to make that motion. Then we would have done something else. But we see that they do not take that role and continue to reimburse those treatments. So my observation is that they need an extra boost. The minister could give them that boost. Let us support the Minister. That's all it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u560	I continue to dissuade this motion, but as far as health insurers are concerned, I am happy to discuss with the insurers whether they should take some further steps. Then I will also show that we have raised this point here, but it is separate from the motion. I'm not gonna make a six-monthly report. So I'm gonna stick to dissuading the motion in part No. 63. Then I come to the Ploumen c.s. motion. in piece No. 64. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. The motion concerns its own contribution to the outpatient delivery. It is about care without medical indication; hence that own contribution. In the Ploumen motion in part No. 65 the government is asked to include contraception in the basic package. I have indicated that I wish to maintain the current situation, so I would also advise against the motion in part No. 65. The Ploumen c.s. motion in piece No. 66 is about the own contribution for maternity care: how can a scheme be established to provide for an income limit for the own contribution? I said that I wanted to maintain the current situation. This income limit for the own contribution leads to a higher premium. I do not think that would be wise, and that is why I would advise against the motion in part No. 66. The motion-Christmas c.s. in piece No. 67 calls on the government to encourage health insurers to take such measures as will enable the specialist in old-age medicine to provide care in the neighbourhood of vulnerable patients at home by January next year. The use of the senior medical specialist in the district is an important part of improving care for elderly people living at home. From 2020 this is possible under the Health Insurance Act. I am in consultation with both healthcare providers and insurers about the contracting of this care. The approach of all parties is that the first line of action of the specialist on old-age medicine should be a flying start from 2020. So as far as I'm concerned, Chamber judge for this motion. Then I come to the motion on part No. 69. This motion calls on the government to agree on the broad agreement on medical-specialist care on visible and complete translation into prices and rates. Perhaps the misunderstanding is that the author, Mr Kerstens, sees an inequality with the text in the other main agreements, namely those for ggz and district nursing. But there's the same passages in there. Thus, there have been similar agreements on wage developments. That goes through the contract, just like with the ggz and the neighborhood nursing. I therefore advise against the motion in part No. 69.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u561	Let me ask you a question, Mr. Chairman. On the motion in part No. We haven't had a reaction yet, but we may have missed something.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u562	It's the secretary of state, and he'll be here soon. Mr. Kerstens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u563	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 69 didn't miss the minister, but maybe he's missing something else. We have really looked through a magnifying glass at the texts in the various main agreements where they relate to what I always call 'translating wage increases into rates and prices'. That is very important, because it is only in the collective bargaining process that we saw an employers' club say: we cannot sign this, because then we will all go bankrupt, and that cannot be the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u564	And your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u565	In our view, there is indeed a difference with the definition in the two main agreements for ggz and community care. There really is talk of a visible and complete translation into prices and rates, while in our opinion the main agreement on medical and specialist care talks in rather vague terms about: parties believe that wage increases should be possible. With all due respect, that is quite different from the whole secure description of "a visible and complete translation." Since we do not see any explanation as to why in one main agreement and not in the other main agreement, we are suggesting that it should be aligned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u566	Then I suggest we hold this motion. I can then quickly, somewhere in the next few weeks, together with the author of the text exegesis. Then I'll give you an appreciation of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u567	Mr President, I am holding the motion, and I will remove the magnifying glass later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u568	What motion was it again?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u569	38.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u570	At the request of Mr Kerstens, I propose his motion (35300-XVI, No. 69). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u571	Then the motion to part No. 72 on tropic medicine and the promotion of structured transfer of knowledge acquired abroad. We have discussed this in the first term and, for the sake of short, I shall give the motion an equal judgment, Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 74, decide together. Would it be better if you anchored that in the training program? I think that's a good idea. If the motion is adopted, we will discuss it with the various training bodies, such as the scientific associations, the College of Care Training and the FMS. Judgment Chamber for No. 74. Then the motion to part No. 75 about a central centre of expertise for Q fever. I would advise against that motion, because, as I said in the first term, there is already such a centre of expertise. I don't want to get rid of that either. I want to keep it. In addition, I would like to continue to organise a one-stop shop for patients, municipalities and healthcare providers. I find it confusing that the text talks about a central centre of expertise, because we already have that. The one about the motion in part No. 75. Then the motion to part No. 76. It calls on the government to explicitly include the public health consequences of excessive concentrations of NO in the air in the cabinet approach. I advise against this motion, because it is superfluous. The Minister of LNV is certainly looking at the health effects of nitrogen. This is also one of the motivations, in addition to nature conservation, to set nitrogen standards. Mr. Chairman. Then a further question had been asked by Mrs Van Esch about the follow-up study on Q fever. That investigation will be concluded in the course of 2021. I expect there may be a progress report between now and 2021. But the research livestock and health neighbors, numero 3, will be completed in the course of 2021. Then I'll get to the motion in part No. 78. This calls on the government to do everything in its power to prevent health insurance organizations from cutting back on elv and grz, geriatric rehabilitation care. I advise against this motion. I recognize the signals about the flow and I am in conversation with the parties involved, but the operative part of the motion is too much concerned with the contracting between parties where VWS is not a party. That's why I advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 81, on line pressure. The government is invited to actively promote the work of every healthcare institution in reducing regulatory burden. I see that as a support for our policy and give that motion judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. 83 calls on the government to highlight the importance of research into brain stem cancer in children at treatment centres. Good idea, let's do it. Judgment Room. Then the motion to part No. 85. It's about a bridging arrangement for maternity care. I spoke about this in the debate. I didn't recommend the PvdA's amendment. I also advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 86 is about those glucose sensors. Judge the Chamber. Finally, the motion in part No. 87. He's asking the government to advise the Healthcare Institute. That seems to me to be the wrong order. I lean on the expertise of the Healthcare Institute. They have to advise us. I advise against this motion. Finally, or not quite yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u572	Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, short and pointy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u573	Mr. Chairman. The point is that the people, the experts who are going to sit on this committee, are probably not just expert or not expert in intensive insulin therapy and diabetes, so that they cannot properly judge the CGM and its wide-ranging remuneration. I understand that it may be a bit crooked that the Minister is going to advise the Healthcare Institute, but then I would like to propose a different wording so that that expertise is preserved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u574	Mr. Chairman. I will then wait for another text, but the motion in this form is not recommended for the reasons I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u575	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u576	Mr. Chairman. Finally, many thanks to everyone who has worked so closely with us to make this day a nice debate. It was a great pleasure, really.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u577	Thank you. Finally, the Secretary of State has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u578	Mr. Chairman. If it's all right, there are six more motions to answer. I'll take care of it. There's one more question. I'll start with the motion in part No. 44 by Mr Renkema, on the mercy bonus for homeless people and homeless people. Sympathetic motion and what's in it, I'd like to proceed. So judge the Chamber at the motion in section No. 44. The same applies to the motion in part No. 45, which is not about a mercy bonus, but about the use of experience experts for homeless people and homeless people. Then the motion to part No. 68 members of Christmas and Hijink. That's that cowboy move about especially protected living. In response to this, I would like to say that from January next year, the inspection with municipal supervision will look at RIBW institutions whose risks are in view or where they are suspected. An extra bet is put on that. In addition, we look at this target group in the announced approach. If I may see the motion in that light, I'd like to leave the verdict to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 73 of Mr Dik-Faber and others. It's about dealing with homelessness and homelessness. I see it as a good incentive to visualize the local task. I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 77 is a motion by Mrs Sazias with a broad signature. It has to do with the Deltaplan Dementie, in relation to preventive activities. It calls for a better picture of what can be done in the preventive sphere. I'd like to do that, so judge Chamber on this motion. Finally, on my list, the motion is in part No. 88, of the member of Kooten-Arissen and others. It calls for clarity in the population studies of cervical cancer and breast cancer for people with a transgender background when they are or are not eligible and how they can operate in them. It's kind of complicated to settle what's being asked here. I'm gonna do my best and I'd be happy to come back when I've been in touch with the relevant clinics. In that light, I also give this motion judgment Chamber. Those are the six motions I think were left. If it is right, the three of us have commented on all the motions. There was another question from Mrs Bergkamp about pgb in relation to what is happening in the Caribbean. I have answered this question as comprehensively as possible, first in writing and then orally, and I do not know how to add much to it. Mrs Bergkamp's question, which I believe she asked on behalf of Mrs Diertens, was also to write to the Chamber again what exactly can and cannot be done and what exactly is happening in the context of the Carabian region. I'd like to honor that request. I sometimes write letters about care-related matters around the Caribbean. Maybe I can take it with me in one of the letters that are in the pipeline. I would rather not write a separate letter about this, because it will keep each other tiring.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u579	Short, short, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u580	I think that's a good idea. Apparently, the time is not yet ripe for the pgb. I ask the Secretary of State to indicate what steps are being taken to achieve a possible pgb.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u581	That's good. That's what I heard. Mr President, I will conclude. I would like to join in the thanks that my colleagues, the ministers, have expressed towards the Chamber and towards official support. I would also like to express my special thanks to the President for his entertaining presidency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u582	It was an honor and a pleasure. I would like to thank the three directors for their presence. It was just a seat. It was a delivery, but the egg was laid.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-31-tweedekamer-9.u583	We shall vote on the 56 motions on Tuesday. Then I close the meeting for this first November, All Saints. Take care of yourself. Ite missa est.
