ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u1	Finally, I give the floor to Mr Raemakers on behalf of D66 for his question to the Minister for Medical Care about the concern of doctors for the advance of crowdfunding. I welcome the Minister for Medical Care and give the floor to Mr Raemakers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Anyone who's sick wants to get better. And anyone who is seriously ill or permanently severely disabled or almost dies wants to seize everything, do everything to survive it or improve the situation. A patient like that wants to seize every last hope. I understand that very well. The medical crowdfunding is therefore emerging in the Netherlands. More and more patients try to have medical treatment that is not reimbursed in the Netherlands by the health insurance company carried out abroad and then obtain funds for it. Research by the Volkskrant has shown that the number of medical crowdfunding actions has increased by sixfold. This is a good thing for some very seriously ill patients. Sometimes scientifically-based progressive treatments in the Netherlands are not yet available. If a health care provider does not want to compensate for this treatment, crowdfunding can offer a solution. Unfortunately, however, we all too often see that medical crowdfunding only gives false hope. We can see that there are treatments offered abroad that have no effect at all or have major risks, and that quacks are also present. D66 therefore shares the concerns expressed by medical specialists in the Volkskrant last week. We need to protect this vulnerable group of people from quacking. We have to stop money being cheated off their backs. That is why I would first of all like to ask the Minister what he is doing to protect these vulnerable patients and their families and relatives. Secondly, I would like to ask the Minister whether he is considering obliging a disclaimer on Dutch crowdfunding websites to describe the effectiveness of the treatment, what the risks are and what you need to know as a patient.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr President. As Mr Raemakers has described, crowdfunding is often about treatments that are not in our basic package, probably often because they have not yet been found effective. These may include alternative or experimental treatments. Mr Raemakers has just explained this. Patients should be aware that such treatments may involve risks and be properly informed in advance. That would also be my call: consult your doctor. In addition, there are several websites on which information is given, including www.kiesbeter.nl. People also need to realize that the Dutch government can't test the quality of treatments abroad. At the same time, people are ultimately free to choose to undergo such treatment abroad and to collect funds through fundraising. But let's be clear, I'm not calling for that. If I want to appeal to something, that is: consult your doctor and consult the site ChooseBetter. If Mr Raemakers asks what else you could do, I think that, however extensive that information on KiesBeter is, there is actually no consideration for crowdfunding, for such experimental treatments that are paid through crowdfunding. Kiesbeter.nl is a government site. So I think we can expand that site with information pointing to this risk of using experimental treatments via crowdfunding. So I'd like to give you my word on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u5	Thank you to the Minister for the answer and also for the commitment. The Minister is, of course, quite right in calling for people to be properly informed and that it is very important to consult the doctor as well. It is also good that the website ChooseBetter is there and that it is now being expanded. I think this is all good starting points, but I would also like to ask the Minister what he can do from his responsibility to actively protect these vulnerable people. Do we, as a politician and as a society, consider that on crowdfunding websites you can offer or show treatments that are totally ineffective and collect money for them? We can call people to check it out and go to their doctor first, but these people are desperate. It's their last resort. I think we should not forget that many of the donations are collected by the immediate relatives, family and friends. We are talking about tens of thousands of euros. There's just money being cheated off by very vulnerable people. Those are not the people who inform their doctors themselves. Those aren't the people who go to the government website. I would therefore very much like to hear from the Minister. In order to better protect those vulnerable people, can we do something from the VWS ministry towards those crowdfunding websites, so that there is simply a clear obligation to always indicate the risks, in the sense of: pay attention, this treatment is not effective? In short, can the Minister also undertake to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u6	I think that Mr Raemakers is actually very good at describing that such a crowdfunding action is often undertaken by the patient or by the patient's family or friends. It's often his initiative. If Mr Raemakers' question is what you can do actively, then the answer is actually two. On the one hand, it is a call: please be incredibly careful to start a crowdfunding action with which you want to do an experimental treatment abroad, i.e. a measure or treatment outside the insured package. To this end, I would like to call actively for caution. On the other hand, as I have just said, I am prepared to modify that site. In either case, I don't know if you're making a conclusive appeal to people for whom this is the last straw. I also read the interview in De Volkskrant. I also understand very well that sometimes profits are made and sometimes not, but that sometimes people say: the fact that I launched such an action has not helped or not helped enough, but it gives me peace of mind that I did it. That too is an explanation of why these crowdfunding actions are being set up, but I think we should be extremely careful about this. Again, it is often about care provided abroad, which is not supervised by the Dutch government through the inspection. So I'm incredibly careful with this. That apple of mine may sound obvious.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u7	Finally, Mr President. In my view, the Minister's key point is that sometimes the treatment does work. It's really great for those patients that that's their salvation, but very often the treatment doesn't work. That is why it would be useful, and I think it would also be necessary, for patients and all their relatives to be informed of this before they begin to do so. These are the risks; that should always be there. What can the Minister do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u8	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u9	I would therefore like to strengthen this caution through kiesbeter.nl. I'll take the initiative for that. When it comes to new treatments that are not yet included in the insurance package, Mr Raemakers also knows that we have expanded the subsidy scheme Promising care faster with the patient from 1 January this year. The effectiveness of new care can be demonstrated through such a subsidy, which makes a new form of care more quickly part of the insured care. I think this is the best route: make sure that we blow the good wind under the subsidy scheme Promising care and ensure that this is a success. That seems important to me, in addition to warning against crowdfunding actions involving experimental treatments abroad. I think I have sufficiently argued that I want to be careful about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u10	Thank you, Minister, and thank you, Mr. Raemakers. Mr Alkaya on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u11	The Minister is constantly talking about patient information, but I also hear Mr Raemakers asking very strongly for action to be taken on the Internet. It is very strange that health insurance companies and recognised charities, but also, for example, other crowdfunding platforms, all have to comply individually with all strict rules. But if you start some kind of combination of those three, then suddenly the cabinet doesn't have to? The SP asked six months ago to close the loopholes in the law, so that these kinds of Internet companies, which are simply making money from people's suffering, are dealt with. Those loopholes need to be closed. Why does the cabinet not want to make additional rules to close the loopholes in the law for this kind of Internet company?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u12	This is not so much about the Internet companies. This is about crowdfunding actions, which are often the initiative of sick people, of their families and friends. I have said that the warning may be clearer. In the run-up to this oral question, I looked for some sort of umbrella organisation of crowdfunding platforms in the Netherlands. I haven't been able to find it. If I could have found it, I would have made the apple sound that I will put on kiesbeter.nl via such a platform. The most important thing is to have a good conversation with your doctor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u13	I am pleased that the Minister is going to put more information on kiesbeter.nl, but this is not just about patients, who sometimes get false hopes and who do not have enough information about the disease, but also about all the family and friends who support them. If the Minister does not want to demand a disclaimer from those platforms.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u14	I think the platform kiesbeter.nl is a good way to warn against crowdfunding actions for experimental treatments that exist abroad and for which there is no room in the insured package yet. As far as hope for patients is concerned, I think that is the key to the good conversation between the doctor and the patient. I think, as I read in the Volkskrant article, that it is very often the doctor who points to caution in the direction of the patient.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-4.u15	Thank you. That brings us to the end of this Question Time. For the moment, I'm suspending the sitting until about three o'clock. Mr. Raemakers, I'm not done. You can't walk to the minister's office right now. No, you can't do that. When the meeting is open, there can be no discussion with cabinet members. I'm suspending until 3:00. Then we will swear two colleagues and follow the votes. After the suspension, Mr Raemakers may give the Minister another hand.
