ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u1	The next item is the debate on women intimidated by protesters at abortion clinics. I would like to welcome the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport and give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet as the first speaker on behalf of GroenLinks. Speaking time is four minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u2	Mr. Chairman. My body is my body, as much as my mind belongs to no one else. This self-determination has not been self-evident for centuries. Brave generations of women have risen before me and claimed that right. I'm so grateful to them for that. The same applies to the right to be boss in your own belly, the right to break down an unwanted pregnancy for up to 24 weeks. This was my mother's fight. And now here I am, a generation later, full of conviction, fighting again. Because times change. Abortion is no longer a matter of course everywhere in the Western world. We see the advent of draconian abortion laws in America, with the absolute low point of Alabama's law banning abortion, even if there is incest or rape, with prison sentences of up to 99 years if the law is broken by a doctor. In many places in this free country, women have been deprived of freedom to possess their own bodies. We also read in a text by the foreman of the Forum for Democracy that he is concerned about the consequences of emancipation and abortion for our society. This would have undesirable demographic consequences. A concern shared by the American alt-right movement. Abortion is therefore seen as problematic in the context of the white society they want. Even new life in the womb is sacrificed to individualism, Mr Baudet literally writes. Unfortunately, he is not present at this debate. I find that regrettable, because this is the place as a representative of the people to share your views on something as fundamental as the right to an abortion. Women who are in a difficult situation because they decide on abortions open up the newspaper, turn on television and see a growing movement both in their own country and in other countries criticizing their choices and freedoms. Words, including politicians, are not without consequences. That is why we must remain vigilant when it comes to our own abortion provision in the Netherlands, because we notice the rise of the anti-abortion movement. That is why I have the following questions for the Minister. Women who have an appointment at an abortion clinic are hampered and sometimes downright intimidated by activists. Let me be clear: the right to demonstrate is a great thing, but when demonstration turns into intimidation, we have to draw a line. To what extent is the advance notification of a demonstration respected when it comes to protests at the clinics? Does he have a picture of that? Have buffer zones been introduced wherever necessary? I'd like a response. I am concerned about the negative and factually incorrect image of abortion. Even among medical students, I've recently been told by an abortion doctor, sometimes misconceptions exist. Does the Minister with GroenLinks believe that there is a task for politics and also for medical training to remove these misconceptions? Then there's the independent choice help. My group felt robbed when Siriz's director told me that it had been a deliberate strategy to get the funding of VWS first and only then to announce the intended merger with the VBOK. With this, he takes away the trust. The basis of the VBOK's existence cannot be combined with the provision of independent choice support. The Minister must also acknowledge this. I'm rounding up. The anti-abortion movement is stronger and better organized than ever. We see the first signs of this in our own country. This calls for vigilance and a strong commitment to the self-determination of women. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u3	Thank you, Mrs Ellemeet. I now give the floor to Mrs Ploumen on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Earlier this year there was a referendum in Ireland, one of the few countries within the European Union where abortion was actually impossible for women. The slogan of the campaign in Ireland was: someone you love needs your yes. In Ireland, women's right to self-determination prevailed, but one could say that the compassion that we have with each other when we face difficult decisions also prevailed. Today we are also talking here in the Netherlands, where we have a law that strikes a balance between the protection of life and the self-determination of women, about the right to abortion. As far as I am concerned, that right is the right of women to decide for themselves whether they want to be a mother, with whom they would like to have a child and when they want to have a child. The right to self-determination is, of course, not a frivolous frivolous frivolous value. It is a right which none of us women, here in this room and beyond, deal with lightly. For we all feel the responsibility we have because we have to decide for ourselves whether there is an emergency situation for us, for myself. That is why, because we feel that responsibility, it is not a question of talking to a woman because of a decision she takes to blame and to bring shame to bear. Or to molest her or even ask her to answer for it at the abortion clinic's doorstep. But the latter will happen. We have seen the reports in which protesters, anti-abortion activists, at abortion clinics address women and harass them. Women say they find that intimidating. That is the reality for me. Not what I think when I look at it, but how women experience it. Women face a difficult choice and this makes it even more complicated. Women have the right to make that decision on their own. They also have the right to walk undisturbed to the clinic and speak with their doctor about their situation undisturbed. The Minister said in a letter earlier that women should not be bothered by their visits. I was pleased with that, but we received a more recent letter, which I believe we received today, which went into the discussions the Minister had with the municipalities and the abortion clinics. In it, he writes that most municipalities report the reports to clinics, if demonstrations are notified, so that clinics can prepare their clients. But the core in this sense is "most municipalities." This means that not all municipalities inform the clinics of demonstrations. So my question to the Minister is: is there enough being done to protect women? Can the Minister guarantee that women will not be harassed by anti-abortion activists? In addition to protesters, it has also been announced that there will be a van for abortion clinics. I would like to ask the Minister: is he prepared to examine what measures can be taken to prevent this, for the reasons I mentioned earlier? One more point. Can the Minister guarantee, if women turn to organisations of choice, that this choice aid is neutral and not directing? I ask this because we have had quite extensive debates here in the Chamber about the organization Siriz. Two weeks after that last debate, Siriz announced that he would merge with VBOK. I do not agree with the content, but I would also like to know from the Minister: was the cabinet aware of Siriz and VBOK's intention? Can the cabinet assure us that assistance to pregnant women remains neutral and not directing? Should it be concluded that this aid is directing, is the Minister prepared to withdraw the state's financial support? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u5	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Hijink on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u6	Mr. Chairman. Whether or not to abort a pregnancy is a violent decision, which by far the majority of women do not take lightly. It is precisely for this reason that it is so important that care for these women is properly organised and that they receive sufficient assistance, guidance and care when considering or adopting abortion. More and more we hear stories about harassment of women in the vicinity of abortion clinics, stories about activists who want to pay women money if they don't go to an abortion or protesters who walk into the waiting room to talk women out of it. I think it's crazy for words to let that happen. Yes, there is a right to freedom of speech, but no, there is no right to intimidate or threaten women. I think the Minister was right to say: why should a woman answer to strangers? I thought that was a catchy phrase in that letter. After all, it is about her own choices. The question is what is the Minister going to do to support and protect women who rightly want to attend an abortion clinic? What possibilities do municipalities have to set buffer zones around a clinic? Is it possible for a municipality, for example, to allow actions only outside the opening hours of a clinic? Can the Minister also indicate what other measures can be taken to protect access to care? Mr. Chairman. The main issue is, of course, the issue of conflicting fundamental rights. On the one hand, there is the right to demonstrate that this is a great asset and, on the other hand, the right to care and access to care. In his letter, the Minister states that a disturbing or shocking message from anti-abortion protesters is not in itself a reason to prohibit a demonstration. I understand that he is defending the right to demonstrate, but shocking statements, photos or texts can, of course, ultimately limit access to care in their effect, for example when it scares women off. How does the Minister deal with this consideration? Does the law at present give sufficient scope to protect the health of an individual? Finally, Mr President. The SP attaches great importance to the ability of all Dutch to organise themselves and to demonstrate. But we do hope and expect that the municipalities always make a careful assessment and that they always inform clinics about announced demonstrations. Can the Minister indicate whether this is being done by default? Mrs Ploumen was right to ask for this. Would the Minister urge municipalities to consider that the protection of women seeking access to care is not hindered by anti-abortion activists? There are a lot of opportunities locally to find a good balance. I hope that the Minister will discuss this with the municipalities in order to make the best possible assessment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u7	Thank you, Mr. Hijink. I now give the floor to Mrs Pia Dijkstra on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Alabama, Georgia, Mississippi and Ohio: these are some states in America where women's rights have recently been drastically reduced. Of course we can think: yes, that is in that conservative America of Trump. But it won't stay there. That atmosphere's gonna blow over to us. You can feel it. While we are hearing more and more boreal talk about how women's rights would be the downfall of Europe, women are being intimidated on their way to the abortion clinic. Yes, Mr. Chairman, I'm talking about harassment. For D66 stands as a house for the right to demonstration, but equally we stand for the right to women's freedom of choice, without any form of intimidation. That freedom of choice is an important achievement which, when I entered the Chamber in 2010, I honestly never expected to have to defend it in 2019. It is not the 1970s, I would say. Mr. Chairman. I do not think the reaction of this Minister to the intimidation so far is entirely satisfactory. Thus, in his letter of 21 February, the Minister writes that he finds the emotional threshold that women experience "an annoying situation." Well, the word "annoying" I use when I hit my toe in the morning or when I can't find a parking spot. I think it is quite reprehensible that we, as women, cannot freely dispose of our own bodies. In his letter of 6 May, the Minister writes that the Scream for Life Foundation indicates that it does not recognise the picture in the media of their demonstration at abortion clinics. This sounds way too noncommittal to me. As if there was a well-known non-discussion which the Minister wanted to keep out of. Mr. Chairman. A woman who goes to an abortion clinic has already made her decision, and that has certainly been a very difficult decision. In fact, these women are generally very vulnerable at that time. So you're not gonna intimidate these women at the time. You don't touch that. The Minister likes to talk about the social discourse and the discussion that is taking place in it. He likes to stand in front of the cameras. That's what he does very well to explain his programs, but I want to hear more about this. As Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport and Deputy Prime Minister, this Minister also has an important voice in this discussion. And then it's just a question of what message you're sending. According to D66, that's a very clear message. I would like the Minister or Mr President-in-Office to say a little more kindly, I would like the Minister here today to say without any doubt that he stands for the freedom of choice of women and for our abortion legislation. I'm assuming he's gonna do the same. Mr. Chairman. Finally, a few specific questions. The Minister always talks about demonstrations in his letter, but several women say they feel intimidated. Where does this minister say demonstration ends and intimidation begins? Mr. Chairman. We understand that it can be difficult for a municipality to consider the establishment of buffer zones. Is the Minister prepared to help municipalities on this difficult issue? Finally. What is the Minister going to do to increase the willingness of women who feel intimidated? That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u9	Mrs Ellemeet has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u10	A very glowing speech by Mrs Dijkstra, which I can fully endorse. What I missed in her speech is the situation that arose after the previous debate on Siriz and VBOK. How does Mrs Dijkstra view these organisations' intention to merge? Does she think that such a merged organisation is still eligible for this open-house financing?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u11	We have indeed already discussed this with the Secretary of State in a VAO. I said at the time: if these two organisations want to continue to merge and have choice-help talks, then they will have to meet the quality criteria laid down by Siriz on their own. I have asked the Secretary of State to monitor this very closely and I assume that will happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u12	It is very good that we have quality criteria; in this open house construction that is the only hoop you have to jump through and then there is relatively little supervision. But my objection is a little more fundamental, namely that the basis of VBOK's existence should be their best grounds: the Society for the Protection of the Unborn Child.................................................................................................................................................... They may be able to jump through that hoop by giving the right answers, but this is in their ground of existence, at the heart of their organization. And when it is merged, it is never an option for my party that they can offer choice help. Does Mrs Dijkstra share this more fundamental concern about such a merged organisation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u13	I share that fundamental concern, but I have a slightly different starting point. And I look at it and I say, you have to keep an eye on that. If, for example, the VBOK retains its name, that is a reason for me to say that it will be very difficult to meet the criteria for neutral selection help calls. But we're gonna see what that's gonna be. So I think it's very important that we're on top of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u14	Thank you. Let me now give the floor... You were ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u15	Yeah, I'm done now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u16	Then I give the floor to Mrs Tellegen on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u17	Mr. Chairman. Women must be able to opt for abortion in all freedom, in safety and in full confidence. That right belongs to the woman and to the woman alone. It is she who becomes pregnant; it is she who bears the consequences of that pregnancy, including the medical risks. This means that the decision to have an abortion is made to the woman. It is about the right to self-determination and it is clear that my party, the VVD, believes that we should protect and defend this right if necessary. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, there's an anti-abortion trend going on. In the US, the pro-life movement seizes its opportunity and we see extreme anti-abortion legislation coming into being. But also in Europe and here in the Netherlands, the issue of abortion seems to be politicising and unfortunately it is on the agenda again. To be honest, I would have preferred not to be here tonight, but a debate is needed to put an end to the ongoing anti-abortion actions around the 14 abortion clinics we have in the Netherlands. You'd only be a woman who got pregnant unwelcomely. After long reflection, you make the difficult but considered decision to have an abortion. And that takes courage. You consult the nearest clinic and make an appointment. Once you've arrived at that abortion clinic, you'll be addressed. You get a flyer in your hand from people who want to stop you from having an abortion. Maybe people are accusing you of murder. They intimidate you. Your privacy is being violated. Mr. Chairman. It is often about the financial accessibility of care in this house, but tonight in this debate it is about physical accessibility to care, to that abortion clinic. Women who have become unwantedly pregnant and want to have abortion must be able to reach and enter a clinic in freedom and undisturbed at all times. My party thinks it is crazy that the Minister had to consult with the municipalities about buffer zones, that plans are being launched in this country for buddy systems. That's not necessary, in our country. Let me be clear: the right to demonstration and freedom of expression are a great asset. There is no doubt about that for the VVD. This right must also be defended. But if you think about it properly, this isn't about demonstrating. This is about deliberately intimidating and harassing women who exercise a right that they have. I would therefore like to know from the Minister why the focus is so on the right of demonstration. After all, you are demonstrating against those who make the policy, who draw up the rules, as we do here in The Hague. You don't demonstrate against the woman who uses those rules. He'll leave you alone. And yes, I know that all this is primarily a local matter and that the situation in every municipality is different and requires customization. But the VVD believes it is important that we also send out a signal nationwide and make it clear that we will and will always protect these women. That is why I would like to ask the Minister how he sees this. What does he think about taking measures such as buffer zones and buddy systems? I would also like to know whether any arrests have been made, or whether women have filed a complaint because they have been intimidated, violated in their privacy. I'd like a response. Finally, that anti-abortion bus. We are engaged in an endless debate with Secretary of State Blokhuis on choice-help talks with women who are unwantedly pregnant. The settings that make these selection help calls must comply with strict conditions. We've been working on that for about a year. How does the Minister see in this light the initiative of the organisation Scream for Life to stand in the parking lot of abortion clinics by bus? I'd like a response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u18	Thank you, Mrs Tellegen. I see Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u19	Of course, I agree with Mrs Tellegen's speech. Thanks for her support for women going to an abortion clinic. I would also like to ask her what Mrs Ellemeet just asked Mrs Dijkstra. We have had a debate on choice aid. Two weeks later it became known that VBOK and Siriz are going to merge, that they have that intention. How does Mrs Tellegen look at this in the light of the independent aid that we consider so important, the neutral aid?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u20	I took that message to me then. I immediately thought: here is a kind of game played. We have been very careful to formulate all these criteria in order to establish them as purely as possible. We've given everyone the same chance. We have always taken the view that it is about providing objective information to women who have become unwantedly pregnant. We dealt with that very carefully. And exactly a week or two after we had that debate here in a VAO, this news comes. Then I thought, "That can't be a coincidence." I felt cheated then, if I may put it so firmly. I didn't like that. If I could have included that story in the debate we had at the time, the context would have been different. I am not saying that the outcome of the debate would have been different, but I would have looked at it differently. I also said: I'm not okay with the way this is going, I feel like a game is being played, but a deal is a deal. We have heard the Secretary of State say that the proposal for the merger between these two organisations will be submitted to the members this autumn. Then I'll take stock of it. These kind of jokes after all don't help my positive image. However, as Mr Dijkstra has just said, we have made these criteria and I will judge them on that basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u21	Of course, I share that irritation and anger. Mrs Tellegen says she feels that a game has been played with us, with our decision-making. But who were the players in that game? Does Mrs Tellegen have the impression that the Secretary of State was aware of this intention?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u22	No, I don't want to go that far at all, but we've talked endlessly about the merger between those two institutions. I don't want to make it bigger than it is. I want to try to fly it as clean as possible. That has proved difficult enough. I don't know if... I can't answer that question. The only thing I thought when I got that news was: oh, I might have wanted to know this sooner, because I would have had that debate with a different tone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u23	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u24	Of course, I asked the Minister if the cabinet was aware of this. It seems to me that Mrs Tellegen can go along with that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u25	Oh, yeah. I hope not, because otherwise we would really have had a different debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u26	Yes. Mrs. Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u27	Keep going on this. Mrs Tellegen rightly says: we would have had another debate and I would have looked at it differently. I understand that very well, because it's in the DNA of the Society for the Protection of the Unborn Child, in the DNA of the organization to oppose abortion. That's what they were founded for, that's their most important mission. In Siriz's case, that's a little less acute in the organization. You can say that these quality criteria must provide sufficient checks and balances so that they can provide that choice help. But if VBOK merges with Siriz, is it still an option for Mrs Tellegen that the merged organisation will provide independent choice help?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u28	Well, that's gonna be exciting. At the time, when that news came out, I said two things. One. I feel like there's a game going on here. And the second thing I said: where is VBOK's ideas in that merger? I can't take an advance on that right now. That is not a bad idea, but we have agreed with the Secretary of State that we will assess it in the autumn if it is submitted to the Members. Maybe there's a completely different outcome and it doesn't come to a merger. But if it comes to a merger, it will be a very large organization that thinks fundamentally differently about abortion than Mrs Ellemeet and I. We'll have to weigh that in that moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u29	In my opinion, the ideas of that organisation are at odds with being able to offer independent choice support. You can't lose your mind when you merge. Then you should lift yourself up. A merger means by definition that you take your ideas with you in a new form of organisation. That's what I'm really worried about. However, we will continue the debate on this at a later date.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u30	Thank you. And thank you, Mrs Tellegen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u31	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u32	I now give the floor to Mr Edgar Mulder on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u33	Abortion is a right. This is regulated by law in the Netherlands. And demonstrating is also a right, and that is also regulated by law. These matters, although very different, are both very important. And at local level, the mayor has an important role in the whole. Mr. Chairman. Today's letter from the Minister shows that in recent years few incidents have been reported to the police about the demonstrations. The letter clearly states that municipalities are able to cope sufficiently with the possibilities available to take action. Mr. Chairman. We are satisfied with both observations. In a democracy, people are allowed to speak out on anything and to demonstrate against anything. The border lies with violence. As soon as that line is crossed, pick it up, get rid of it. Mr. Chairman. To be sure, the PVV is not an opponent of abortion. On the contrary, the PVV is also in favour of providing the abortion pill to the general practitioner. This is precisely because of the accessibility. Also, the PVV advocated more prenatal screening and the introduction of the thirteen-week echo, in order to detect health problems more quickly. Rounding up. The PVV is against restricting demonstration rights as long as no violence is used. It is up to the municipalities to maintain this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u34	So what is the definition of "violence" in this discussion? Lizards scream. Confronting, shocking photos show. Conversing women who are in a vulnerable position and walking to an abortion clinic. I find this form of intimidation. But it may not necessarily be violence. Or, in Mr Mulder's view, is this violence in this context?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u35	I thought that...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u36	...Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u37	...that Mr. Hijink answered his own question well. It may not be tasteful and choose, but it's not violence. At least, the report from the minister I saw doesn't show that it was physical violence. You can attribute all kinds of qualifications to words and photos, but it's not physical violence. In this respect, therefore, no border has been crossed, so people are allowed to demonstrate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u38	Then Mr Mulder is incredibly restrained. And I think you're gonna fail the women who need this care and go to the abortion clinic. Women are confronted with the consequences of an abortion, they are talked into abandoning it, they are offered money not to do that abortion, they are offered: then we pay the diapers for a year and here you have some cash in your hands. If that happens, it's not physical violence. But is Mr Mulder okay with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u39	No, I'm not saying I'm okay with anything. There are a lot of qualifications to give these kinds of things. I've seen those pictures myself. We've been sent things here in this house. But it can't be that, if you don't find something tasteful, you're restricting another right, in this case the right of demonstration. It is not our way of looking at society that determines whether or not others are allowed to demonstrate. So I'm not saying it's okay, but I'm saying that we need to look closely at what's happening. The Minister is working on that. Again, as long as physical violence is not used, people are allowed to protest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u40	I really think that's too short. Intimidation is a bit different from physical violence, but harassment can have very far-reaching consequences for women who are considering or going through abortion. I think it would be good if the Freedom Party also stood for the freedom of women who go to the abortion clinic. Then as a municipality, as a minister, you must dare to go further than just reject violence, because rejecting violence is really not good enough in this case. Surely it is too crazy to say that we are not going to make a problem with violating women's rights until they are beaten up. The problem is, of course, that they are being talked into and confronted with shocking photos, which means that they are going to consider making a different choice alone, whereas freedom of choice should be paramount. I expected the PVV to support that line as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u41	It is a pity that I have not been able to convince Mr Hijink, because once again, as a PVV, we stand for the right of women to abortion. We stand up for that in every debate. But we also stand for the rights of those women who demonstrate against abortion. They're women, too, and they have rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u42	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u43	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u44	I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u45	Madam President. When a woman is unwantedly pregnant, a lot of questions can concern her. How about financially, with my relationship, with my work? From a lot of experience stories I've heard that women sometimes experience enormous pressure to opt for abortion, to have the baby removed. That is a serious and poignant problem. What is important is for women to have fair information about alternatives to abortion, to have real attention to their needs and to have real solutions to the underlying problems they face. I therefore very much appreciate those who do not care about unwanted pregnant women. Think of the website www.erihulp.nl. But I am also thinking of the many guardians at abortion clinics, who respectfully and honestly offer help to women who are open to it. Every week a few women go into that offer of help. This shows that a lot is often wrong in actually discussing and offering aid. The SGP calls for much more work to be done on this. My question is: does the Minister see this point? Those guards at clinics, counselors or whatever else you want to call them, have caused a lot of fuss over the last few months. There have been strong words used in the media and also by parties in this house. There would be intimidation, aggression and increased demonstrations. It is important to distinguish facts and fables clearly from each other. On the one hand, the Minister writes in the letter of 6 May that the number of signals that women feel intimidated is unfortunately increasing. But it is not clear to me what that is based on. In recent years complaints or incidents have very rarely been reported to municipalities and the police about demonstrations at abortion clinics; see today's letter. If you put the facts together honestly, I see above all an increasing annoyance and willingness to act in an organization like the Humanist Covenant. You can and you can, but that's a whole different matter. The Minister rightly points out that annoyance about a view can never be a basis for limiting a demonstration. I'd say stand for that, too. Don't go looking for shortcuts to restrict that right anyway. And if there are local problems, just discuss it locally and just solve it by mutual agreement. You can, and you will. Finally, Mr President. In the Netherlands, we attach great importance to the constitutionally established freedom to argue, even if the message is confrontational. It may be said loud and clear that the protection of life in the Netherlands is under pressure. In fact, the SGP itself shares that view. It is a sad reality in the Netherlands today that there is so little protection for unborn human life. There is a task for this Chamber, however, for this government. My call is, let's do something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u46	Does Mr Van der Staaij consider it acceptable that women should be intimidated?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u47	No, I don't think it's acceptable for women to be intimidated, not if they want to go to an abortion clinic or if they're at an abortion clinic to stand up for the protection of unborn life and for real aid. Because that is also the issue, that sometimes people there are being treated in a certain way that you and I would say: you do not do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u48	Does Mr Van der Staaij support my appeal to the Minister to do everything in his power to stop the intimidation of women?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u49	I've asked about the facts and we need to stop spreading myths about increasing intimidation. That has no basis in the facts and figures. You started bringing the whole world in yourself. The fact that there are stricter abortion laws in America is no reason to suddenly discredit people around these abortion clinics. It is a lot of people who are engaged in good faith in a serious way. I notice that they are actually the victims of all kinds of stories about what they would do, complete with American movies about banging on windows. Stop it! That is my appeal to the Minister. And stand for it!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u50	Finally, Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u51	Don't turn this place around. The women who go to the clinic and feel intimidated, that's the victims. I therefore ask Mr Van der Staaij once again my question. I don't care if it's a woman, two women or a hundred women, because every woman who feels intimidated is one too many. Does Mr Van der Staaij support my appeal to the Minister to ensure that the harassment of women stops at clinics?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u52	In view of the facts, I do not think it is necessary to bring forward all kinds of great stories about intimidation here. I see a practice in which people are engaged in an extremely conscientious way, in general. I have also asked about this and I am positively surprised by the care taken. If there is criticism of their conduct, they are open to it. When you say "you shouldn't do that, sister" or "you shouldn't do that," they want to talk about that. That is going well and there are no calls in this Chamber to get that done. Leave that to local authorities. I would say: don't be so patronizing with Eindhoven, Rotterdam and Amsterdam. They're very good at putting these local beans on their own.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u53	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u55	Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber, on behalf of the Christian Union, and then to Mrs Van den Berg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This evening's debate is about a loaded and emotional subject, namely abortion. Firstly, it is loaded because it is a subject of an ideological and ethically charged political debate, where the differences between parties can be large. Secondly, it is an emotional subject because it concerns women in a difficult phase of their lives. They represent the choice to carry out or terminate an unintended pregnancy. That's an incredibly big dilemma. Because of that first, the political burden, nuances are sometimes too quickly forgotten. Because of the second, the emotional and the ethical charge, it is important to continue to speak with care with a tone and a choice of words that are appropriate, not easy to talk about women who are going through a difficult time and to be aware of what is protective, life. In this sense, it is more appropriate for us to have a good conversation than a heated debate, because only in this way can we do justice to the vulnerable position of women who are unintentionally pregnant and to the value of unborn life. Mr. Chairman. It is no secret that the Christian Union is not in favour of abortion legislation in our country. I'm not gonna pretend that all of a sudden is different. I note, however, that this is a legal right that women in our country can invoke. There is therefore no reason to prevent them from having access to abortion. On the other hand, there is the freedom in our country to demonstrate, to speak out and to lend a helping hand, even when it comes to demonstrations at abortion clinics. Demonstrate must therefore be allowed, intimidation must not be allowed. The Minister has clearly explained in his letters that the Act provides public events with, among other things, the obligation to notify municipalities enough to give them proper hands and feet. I do not know whether this leads directly to a good conversation, but at least we are doing justice to the views that exist locally in society. The Minister has entered into the good conversation. He entered into talks with municipalities, with abortion clinics and with organisations of protesters. That is what the Empire can do: facilitate the conversation and shape this consultation. Because even if clinic and protesters will never fully understand each other, it is important to go to the table, to find a workable solution that does justice to both. The situation is different locally and therefore it is also important that local customisation is provided. To do justice to both, Rotterdam has opted for a buffer zone. I understand that this seems to be a workable solution, but in other places other solutions may be conceivable. Mr. Chairman. At national level, the Law on Abrupt Pregnancy plays. It belongs to both sides: yes, the right to opt for the termination of pregnancy in an emergency, but also that this right must always be weighed against the protection of life. It's a good thing this cabinet picked up the glove to evaluate the law breaking off pregnancy. It is important that this is done carefully, that despite all the political differences there is finally an evaluation of the law. We shall also discuss this with each other. I hope that we will do so in such a way that we treat each other in such a way that we can pronounce differences without being tone deaf. Mr. Chairman. I didn't come up with that word "tone deaf." Rosanne Hertzberger recently used it in a column in NRC, which has loosened a bit with me. I do not think she is voting for Christian Union or having the same view of abortion as the Christian Union is in the election programme, but I would like to quote from her. "I understand the relief and appreciation for the good warm care they, the unintentional pregnant women, received in their difficult situation. A disaster was averted. At the same time, the pieces are tone deaf. Reading the pieces like "good riddance" and "nothing to be ashamed of." Painful to see women do a round dance around abortions. (...) Eventually abortion continues to break life in the bud." Mr. Chairman. I believe that recognition of life in the bud and the sometimes vulnerable situation in which women who are unintentionally pregnant may be an understatement of the importance of good help, good information and a genuine helping hand, the importance of a proper evaluation of the current legislation with regard to women and with regard to unborn life, and the importance of a good conversation. Let's work on that with each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u57	Thank you very much, Mrs Dik-Faber. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Women who go to an abortion clinic are in a very vulnerable position, because it is an emotionally heavily loaded moment when a woman chooses to have abortion. The CDA agrees with the Minister that it is undesirable for women to be harassed. After all, you do not have to answer to a stranger at the entrance of a clinic about the choices you make. All the support that was chosen in Rotterdam to set up a buffer zone around the clinic, where demonstrations should not be held. For the CDA, any form of human life has the right to protection. The same applies to unborn life. At the moment, the Law on Abrupt Pregnancy is being evaluated, so that we can gain more insight into how this careful decision-making is implemented in practice. As far as the CDA is concerned, there is a balance in the law and we attach great importance to that balance. The right to freedom of demonstration is also a great asset that needs to be protected, but hindering is something other than demonstrating. The system of the Public Events Act states that it is up to the city council to determine which meetings and demonstrations must be notified to the municipality in advance. It is therefore up to the city council to lay down rules on this. It is also up to the local authorities to lay down rules and restrictions on the prevention of disorder. The CDA calls on municipalities to find a good balance in this. The minister has offered to facilitate municipalities in their approach and has already had a conversation with them. What is the follow-up to this? Will the Minister continue to talk to the municipalities to ensure that adequate measures are taken everywhere? The buffer zones in Rotterdam are an example of this. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u59	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Berg. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. The Minister's getting up. Can you answer right away? No? You're asking for 15 minutes, but I think that's a little long. Twelve minutes? That's kind of a compromise, but it's gonna be 15 minutes anyway. Then I'll suspend the meeting until 8:55 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u60	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u61	Mr President, thank you. Thank you to the members of your Chamber for their contribution in the first term. It is clear that questions of principle are being raised when it comes to demonstrations at abortion clinics, and that you are also following this line of basic questions and positions in the debate. I understand that, too. Because what is at issue here is the right of women to decide freely to break down or to carry out a pregnancy. On the other hand, or in addition, there is the right to express your opinion and to do so in the form of a demonstration: the right to demonstrate. I have said on several occasions that the right to demonstration is not a right to intimidation. That's what I heard you say just now. I have also said before that for this reason I find it very regrettable when women who are about to visit an abortion clinic are harassed, hindered or intimidated. And that's definitely on the agenda. It is important that any woman who is considering a termination of pregnancy can freely make an informed choice. I said that a woman shouldn't feel compelled to answer to someone she doesn't even know at the clinic entrance. That's what happens. Of course you have to be exactly in that, because the right to demonstrate is a great thing. Not for nothing is it laid down in the law. It is not for nothing laid down in the Constitution. It is not for nothing that it is up to the local authority to properly enforce that right of demonstration. The fact that displeasure or even shocking opinions can be discussed in this context is, in itself, no reason to restrict the right of demonstration. In this case, there is something else. That is not so much an uncomfortable opinion, but it is true that a woman is treated in such a way that she feels intimidating and in some cases intimidating at a very difficult time in her life. Since that's true, a mayor has that balance to make. The local authority has everything to do to ensure that both the right of one person, namely the right to freedom of expression and the right to demonstration, and the right of the other person to decide on the continuation or termination of pregnancy, are respected. That balance is laid down in the law, but it will always have to be maintained in practice, locally. I think it would be good if I answered the questions that have been asked along the following lines. First, let me outline the actual situation. That is the image I have of conversations with abortion clinics, municipalities and the protesters, or at least with a number of organisations speaking on behalf of the demonstrators. Two is the perspective of action of municipalities. What possibilities do municipalities have? Is that enough? Can the Empire still support them? I also answer a number of other questions. I'll start with the actual situation first. We've had a number of conversations. We had the conversation with the municipalities, with the abortion clinics and with two of the organisations that represent most demonstrators. I think it's okay if I just show you as factually as possible what our image is from those conversations. As you know, there are currently 14 abortion clinics. From the information from the municipalities and the clinics, I understand that the frequencies of the various demonstrations differ. At four clinics there are actually rarely or never demonstrations. At three clinics there are up to once a month, at three clinics up to twice a month, at three clinics on average one to two per week and at one clinic it is on average twice a week. Some clinics and municipalities have informed me that the frequency is increasing slightly. The two organisations with a large part of the demonstrators have, in turn, indicated that they do not recognise themselves in the image outlined in the various media. They declare themselves to comply with the conditions. They also say that it is rarely found that they do not comply with the rules. The municipalities all indicate that they are keeping a close eye on the local situation. They themselves say that in recent years there have been hardly any complaints or incidents about demonstrations at abortion clinics or detected by municipalities themselves. On the other hand, I understand from the abortion clinics themselves that there are indeed clients who are affected by the demonstrations and that this does not seem to be easy to prevent. There are clients who come in angry, upset, sad or crying when there are protesters, because they do feel intimidated. Mr Van der Staaij asks whether we are not making things much too big with each other. I do think it is wise not to make it unnecessarily larger than it is, but on the other hand it is not wise to make it unnecessarily smaller than it really is. It may seem intimidating to the women involved. On one of the most difficult days of their lives, these women have to make their way to a clinic through a hedge of protesters. They are addressed in a way that they do not want to be addressed and are confronted with questions they do not want to face on the street. I don't want to make that smaller than it really is. Mrs Ellemeet asks to what extent demonstrations are reported in advance. In consultation with the municipalities last week, I was told that in fact all the municipalities in their regulation have a prior obligation to notify. It is generally well respected. If it is not respected, as some municipalities have said, this may mean that the demonstration will not be able to continue. Mr Hijink asks whether clinics are always informed about upcoming demonstrations. Last week it appeared that not all municipalities always inform abortion clinics. The abortion clinics have indicated that they'd like to. The municipalities said in that consultation that it is also logical to do so in all cases. Then you can prepare for it. Then clinics can also prepare their clients for it. Only a single municipality did this not yet standard. But now the agreement has been made that it is wise to do so. Mrs Tellegen asks whether arrests have also been made. As far as I'm aware, no arrests have been made. Then I will continue with the question of what the municipal perspective of action is. What could we as a Empire do to support and contribute to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u62	Before the Minister continues... I asked for these arrests because I hope to bring a nuance to this debate between the right to demonstration and the individual intimidation that is taking place. I don't think anyone in this room is against demonstrations. There is no one in this room who says that people who are anti-abortion should not demonstrate. We all agree on that. But when the right to demonstration becomes one-on-one harassment of women, we're talking about something completely different. That's what it's been about a few times. I am concerned that these women can then report, because they are violated in their privacy, or because they are intimidated, because they no longer feel free to approach that abortion clinic in a normal way. Then we're not talking about demonstration anymore. Demonstrating is what you do when you disagree with someone. Then you resist the one who makes the rules. But this is almost citizens versus citizens, who make it impossible for each other to pursue certain rights. I was wondering how the minister looks at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u63	You can look at that in a very legal way. You can say that the right of demonstration is a fairly far-reaching right. Also opinions that may be shocking, or lead to discontent, anger, displeasure or whatever may lead to those who have to listen to those views deserve protection according to the law. According to the doctrine of the Public Events Act, that goes quite far. And consciously, because the law does not need to protect pleasing opinions, but of course to displeasure opinions. That's one way. On the other hand, it is a question of women's right to choose, who must have access to abortion care. It shall not be obstructed in such access. Of course it does something to those who want to go in there when such a demonstration takes place right in front of the door and someone, a stranger, asks for responsibility and asks questions where you are not waiting at all at the time It is one of the hardest days of your life and then you have to work your way through a hedge of protesters. Now you could quite legally answer the question where the right to demonstration ends and where the other person's right to be protected from intimidation begins. In other words, if the right of an absolute person is expressed, the right of the other person is compromised. At that time, of course, there is an incentive for the government to strike a balance between these two sides and to draw a line and provide protection for citizens. That's the whole legal way of looking at it. You could also say that it's actually more of a society way or a human way to look at it. For example, you could say: treat another person as you would like to be treated yourself and for a moment in the position of another person at that time. That is actually a bit like Mrs Dik-Faber just put it. It is okay to ask people to live in the position of another person and to realize what it is doing in another person's life at that time and to take that into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u64	Suppose a woman who's decided to have an abortion is on her way to an abortion clinic and is then approached by someone with the question: are you sure? We have heard examples of it, such as being pushed into the hands of flyers. In fact, they are being put under pressure to reconsider that decision. Then that's harassment, isn't it? Then at that point, it has nothing to do with the right to demonstrate, right? That has to do with a civilian versus another citizen who says, "Don't do this, that's a bad plan." What would happen if it were to be reported?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u65	If you filed a complaint, the criminal path would be followed. However, it is very doubtful whether the criminal law path here offers an appropriate answer in a peaceful way to enable both these rights to be exercised. As far as the administrative side is concerned, it is the mayor who has the power to judge it. On the basis of a notification, it states the conditions under which the demonstration can take place, taking into account the facts and circumstances, and has this contact with the abortion clinic et cetera. Considering all these interests against each other, he can then say: I think it can go on, given the experiences of the past. Or he can say: given the experience of the past, I think it is wise to designate a place where that demonstration can take place. That's an administrative approach. At that time, as mayor, of course, you make a balance between the rights of one and the rights of the other. Another way of looking at it is the more criminal approach. That is: couldn't you successfully rely on criminal law? Frankly, I think that the bar is rather high when it comes to criminal law, in the sense that there must be some kind of threat. I do not think it is so easy to justify that there is a threat of violence, for example, from the conversation you are having at the time. So whether something is considered criminally harassment is another question than whether something is perceived as intimidating by a woman at the time. I think the latter will be the case. This can indeed be involved by a mayor in the consideration of the decision-making process concerning the right of demonstration. Whether that first one will also be on the agenda soon, I don't think, because the criminal will raise that bar a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u66	Just so we know what we're talking about. If the Minister says that we should not make it too big but not too small, I am curious whether he is indeed of opinion and has been given the conviction after all the investigation, that there is an increasing number of harassments around abortion clinics and, if so, on which it is based and where that is apparent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u67	Let me just keep it very factually. I've asked clinics and municipalities if the number of demonstrations is increasing. Indeed, a number of municipalities and a number of clinics say that the number of demonstrations is increasing. Then the second question you ask is: do you have examples of it being perceived as intimidating, threatening and so on? Of these, I have just mentioned the examples that have become me from the abortion clinics that indicate: we are indeed experiencing women coming in upset because of conversations they have just had on the doorstep. In short, yes, that's true, it happens. Is it the case with all the clinics? No, it's not all clinics. Do you see a huge increase? No, you don't see a huge increase. That's not what I heard back from the clinics. At the same time, the experience of women is, of course, a serious experience. It's been said, don't make it too big. That, I think, is a wise plea on your part. I am trying to put a plea aside, and I hope you will agree with me that this is a wise plea: do not make it too small, because it is not small.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u68	If there are examples of such situations, it would be good if they were recoupled. It happens sometimes. I understand that the procedure will then be adapted to that. The question then is whether this is a problem of a national nature, of which we must say at the moment that municipalities do not know how to deal with it and that people do not agree with each other, so that we really need to take action now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u69	I was in the middle of my block about the perspective of action for the municipality. You are, of course, talking about whether something is a national problem. If you invite me to a debate, I'll come. That's how it works. I got explained.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u70	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u71	I had stuck to the action perspective for the municipality. It is primarily up to municipalities to implement the exercise of the right to demonstrate, taking into account the importance of the protection of women visiting an abortion clinic. That is what is happening, as I found out when I checked with both the clinics and the municipalities. It is certainly possible to improve and it is true that the clinics and the municipalities across the border, across the hedge, can look at the other to learn from each other, but that this is being dealt with seriously has proved to me. According to the system of the Public Events Act, it is up to the city council to determine which meetings and demonstrations should be notified to the municipality in advance. That is the obligation to notify. I have found that all the municipalities have the obligation to notify demonstrations at abortion clinics. The second is that the mayor can then prescribe rules and impose restrictions on a demonstration to ensure that it is conducted in an orderly and peaceful manner, for example in order to protect health, in the interests of traffic or to combat or prevent disorder. On the basis of this and experience from previous demonstrations, municipalities may in certain cases also lay down rules on the location. That's what municipalities call buffer zones. That was done in Rotterdam. That's what happened in Roermond. That is where the matter is before the court for the provision of services, and that is where the municipality was right: on the basis of the facts and under the circumstances at that time, the mayor has made a fair assessment and has rightly chosen to do so. In general, municipalities also have good contact with abortion clinics. The conditions and rules for managing demonstrations can be discussed there. That's what's gonna happen. Municipalities also make voluntary agreements, for example that protesters do not obstruct visitors and do not insist on a conversation if the visitor is not interested. In addition, that is the fourth line of the municipality monitoring the local situation. Police and city guards, whether civilian or otherwise, regularly pass by and abortion clinics can report it to the municipality and to the police if regulations are broken. Some municipalities have a special number for this, in case a demonstration seems to get out of hand. On the basis of that own supervision or of reports of nuisance, municipalities may set new rules for a demonstration at a later date. Of course, I asked the question: could we help from the Empire? Could, for example, a hand-out, an additional hand-out or a hand-off for setting buffer zones have added value? I understand, say municipalities: we actually think we can get out of our way with the current instruments based on the Public Events Act. That's also my image when I hear things back from the abortion clinics. Could we, as a Empire, do something else? Is there an extra instrument or something needed in the law? There was no response to that at this stage if that were to be the case. That led me to say: let's look at how things are going and have the same meeting with municipalities and abortion clinics in the autumn, then put in the thermometer to see if things are going well, whether one can learn from one another and what one might want from the Empire in addition.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u72	Thanks to the Minister for the inventory, but I actually hear him say a lot of fine words and then pull his hands off it. We are going to sit around the table again in the autumn, while the Minister himself has also heard that the demonstrations are in some cases perceived as intimidating. There's more demonstration. What is the Minister waiting for? Buddies are being called to the abortion clinic with women. Minister, it's 2019, it's the Netherlands and you're responsible for ensuring that women can reach a clinic unhindered. I understand that it has to be in consultation, but I think it's a little too easy to say to the municipalities: figure it out and we'll see you in October. That's really not in the best interests of women. The question is whether the Minister agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u73	There are quite a few assumptions and some incorrect representations in your question. I didn't say to the locals, "Find out." On the contrary! I've asked municipalities how could I help you? That's one. Two: it is not the minister responsible for the enforcement of the Public Events Act; it is the mayors responsible for the enforcement of the Public Events Act. That has an important background that only as mayor can judge that local situation in a good way. Of course, I asked if there was a need for more national support. It has been said: no, because we believe that, under the present Act, we have sufficient possibilities for public events, that we have sufficient tools in our toolbox. So it is not so much a question of new powers or of implementing that law properly. At that time there was no need to make further guidelines, hand-outs or anything else. That is why I said: let's take a look at it and let's talk again in the autumn to see if we, as the Empire, can provide further support, even if only in making the conversation possible, facilitating the conversation between municipalities in order to learn from each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u74	In my view, the Minister is responsible for the unhindered opportunities for access to care for women. That access is at stake. I therefore believe that the Minister should take more responsibility to make this possible. What options is he going to work out for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u75	That's really wrong. You should not take the view that access is at stake if it is not. Of course, it is the mayors who have to ensure that access is not at stake. Of course, the Minister's responsibility for the Abrupt Pregnancy Act lies with him. But when it comes to all the measures that govern public order, all the measures that need to be taken under the Public Events Act, local authority is called upon. And not the minister. What I do like to do is to enable local authority to do its job properly. That is also the reason for the conversation I had with municipalities with abortion clinics. That is why I asked them: what extra would you need to ensure proper access to abortion care? That is indeed important. What would you need to balance the right of demonstration in such a way with the right to free access to abortion care that does not hinder that abortion care? What would you need? The answer to that question is: at the moment we think we have the toolbox we already have under the law. That is why I said: let's just go round the table again in the autumn to see what we can do in addition. There is therefore no wish or request for help from the municipalities. No, that is not the case at the moment. At the moment, the answer to the question of whether there is a question of help from the municipalities is: no, we can still get away with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u76	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u77	Finally. There is a demand for help from women who feel intimidated. In the current situation, too little is being done to remove that feeling from them. So I am unhappy with the fact that we will not be talking again until six months or in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u78	That's not right. There's definitely a woman's call for help. That is a legitimate question from women, namely to have unhindered access to the clinic. In response to this question, mayors have to ensure the proper implementation of the right of demonstration laid down. With regard to this right of demonstration and its exercise: mayors, local authority, always have to take into account the protection of women in the free access to the clinic. That's what women are right to ask for. All those times that an abortion clinic at the municipality bangs on the door and asks for help, there is help. All those times when a municipality and an abortion clinic feel that additional measures should be taken. Those measures are indeed being taken. There's no misunderstanding about that. The question is whether there is a need for additional powers for municipalities to ensure safe access, but for the time being the answer to that question is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u79	The Minister began by stating that every woman who feels intimidated is too much. I agree with him. That is what we are having this debate on, these women. Then the Minister looks at the practical side of the story in terms of: do these women have access to clinics? If not, are they well assisted by municipalities? If so, do municipalities have the toolbox they need to intervene? However, that is only one side of the story. I would like to go along with the Minister's argument that the municipalities can get rid of that toolbox, but the story has another side. So far I have missed it completely in the Minister's speech. This is about the wider context of these women's demand for help. We see in other countries, in America, in Europe, in the Netherlands, that the anti-abortion movement is increasing, becoming stronger. That intimidates these women, too. As I said in my speech, they open the newspaper, they see it on television. What we need from this minister on this issue is not only support for the municipalities, but also leadership. We need a minister who will stand up for these women, a minister who will speak out where he can, who will support the municipalities and these women and who will condemn all these developments in this country and abroad. That's what I expect from a minister for all these women.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u80	That is why I have, on many occasions, made myself extremely clear about the right of women to free access to abortion care, the right of women not to be intimidated at the entrance to the clinic, the right of women to have access to abortion care without having the feeling of being held accountable to a stranger. I have been extremely clear about this. I don't think there's any doubt about that. This is without prejudice to the fact that, when it comes to what you can do to protect women, you have to look at the practical possibilities. The question here is whether municipalities, local authority, have sufficient opportunities to ensure that they have free access to abortion care. The answer to that question is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u81	The Minister comes back on the practical side, which is very important. I'm not talking about that trivially. Municipalities must be able to give women free access to abortion clinics. This is very important, but it is also important for this Minister to make a clear statement on the importance of women's freedom of choice as regards their right to self-determination. I read the interview with the minister in the AD at the end of March, but this problem is building up. We have received worrying signals from the United States about this in recent weeks. I didn't hear the Minister say anything about that. I may have missed that, but what is happening there now and what women in the Netherlands get from it cannot be underestimated by this Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u82	I am truly surprised at the influence room that Mrs Ellemeet has given this minister. What is happening in the United States is in no way comparable to what is happening in the Netherlands. The support base in the Netherlands for the current abortion legislation has increased rather than decreased. I believe that the percentage that supports the current abortion policy in a 2017 SCP study was 72%, where it was barely 60% ten or twenty years ago. In short, I do not have the impression that the support base under the current abortion policy is currently declining in the Netherlands. I have the impression that the discussion is being used by many people not to dampen polarization; let me at least put it this way. The volume of discussion is at least increasing. However, there is still considerable support for the current abortion policy. By the way, we will be discussing this again at the time when we are discussing the evaluation of the current Abrupt Pregnancy Act. I'm just getting the percentages here. Indeed, 74% of the Dutch supported the current abortion policy in 2017, compared to 60% in 1992. In short, my impression is not that this is the same trend as in the United States.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u83	You made that clear. Finally, Mrs Ellemeet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u84	Finally. What matters to me is that women in the Netherlands who are in such a vulnerable position are not blind to the signals also outside our country. That can be intimidating in itself. The point is that the message that in an American state even after incest or rape there is no right to abortion does something to you and that also makes you insecure: would that also happen in the Netherlands? That's how women think. That's how people think. Would that skip on our land, too? We see a Dutch politician here who makes very dubious statements about abortion law. So it's about me that such statements and such developments can do something to you. What I want from this minister is for him to reassure these women. Because these are developments that people are receptive to. I am extremely pleased with this broad support, but it remains important that we stand together, including the Minister in his position, for that right and that we can hold on to what we now have.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u85	However, I would like to say one more reason to Mrs Ellemeet, not to make it seem unnecessary to pretend that there are American situations here or that we can discuss them. That's where we're at. You'll be there, with the hundred and fifty of you. Mrs Ellemeet rightly says: especially for vulnerable women, you have to speak out for the rights that apply in the Netherlands. I have to do that as a minister. You are, of course, responsible for how you weigh it as a Member of Parliament. But you may indeed expect that from me as a minister. At the same time, I think we can expect each other to be precise in what is going on. What is at least not at issue is a tendency towards American situations. It is in no way reflected in the figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u86	It now seems in this debate that all women who go to an abortion clinic, who see protesters or watchers as a bit of an opponent. I also hear the same thing, and those are just as well facts, namely that different women say: we were addressed and liked it. We could tell our story and we were actually very well helped, in a much better way than we had chosen to have an abortion. They often feel pressured from their environment to opt for abortion. What is the Minister's reaction to the comments and experiences of these women?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u87	I know those stories, too. There are, I must say, not so much. But I know those stories, too. I think it underlines on all sides that it is a good thing that the legislator, in particular, has enshrined in the law the freedom of women to choose without pressure. I think that's one of the fine achievements of the law breaking off pregnancy. Of course, we know the period of reflection, but we also know, above all, the right of women to make that assessment, without pressure from outside. I think that's an important achievement. In general, anyone who feels helped, by any intervention: that is of course absolutely beautiful.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u88	I suggest you move on. I can't wait to see how far along you are.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u89	I'm a long way, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u90	That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u91	That's what you thought, isn't it? I saw you think it. I'm just gonna ask the questions. A number of questions have been asked. What possibilities do municipalities have to allow only demonstrations outside clinic opening hours? Buffer zones, we talked about that. As mayor, you have the opportunity to designate a place for the demonstration. That's one thing. Two is that demonstration after opening hours is in principle not impossible. But you've got to have some ground for that, because otherwise, of course, it's gonna be up to the judge to fight. So you can't have as a general policy: do it outside of opening hours. Just as you don't have the general policy for anti-Black Piet demonstrations: do so on July 31st. In general, you have the right to express your opinion, even in the place where that opinion should be heard. But on the basis of previous demonstrations, a mayor can of course make an exception. If the facts and circumstances give rise to this, it will also stand before the courts. Mrs Ellemeet asked if there are buffer zones everywhere. No, not everywhere. Do municipalities always have the possibility to set up a buffer zone if the facts and circumstances give rise to this? The answer is yes. I know that it applies at least at the moment in Rotterdam. I believe that there are also temporary buffer zones in other municipalities, for example in Roermond. It's always local customization. That's the point. A lot of questions have already been answered, Mr President. Mrs Van den Berg asked when we would have another conversation with these municipalities. That'll be in the fall. I'll just send you another picture of that, too. I deliberately choose the autumn, because we must first let the current implementation practice do its job.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u92	I would like to return to what the Minister said about the comparison with the United States. It would be completely different here than there. I checked it out. The minister said there's a lot of support here. Fortunately, that is true, but it is not a guarantee, because in the United States too, the support for abortion legislation is unabated, according to a Gallup study. In short, that's not a guarantee that nothing will change. That is also why I asked the Minister in my speech whether he could say in his voice without any doubt that he stands for the freedom of choice of women and for our abortion legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u93	Yes, of course. I have underlined that several times. In this debate, in several interviews in recent months, I have underlined this several times. However, I would point out that we must be careful not to wrongly draw attention to all kinds of developments in the United States, because I think that things are really different in the Netherlands. Is there any guarantee why that support couldn't ever change? You're that guarantee. You are the representative of the people. In the end, you are talking about what legislation is or is not being changed. I believe that we have made an extremely clear agreement, both in the coalition agreement and in the debate then in the Chamber. We said we're gonna evaluate the Law of Abrupt Pregnancy with each other. That's what we're gonna talk about next. Then what is the guarantee that this will not be removed? You're that guarantee. You're there. It's a hundred and fifty. You'll be there yourself. This cabinet is there. You do not expect this cabinet to propose that these rights be restricted. I do not expect any proposal from your Chamber to point that way. I believe that there is no support in the Netherlands for a different type of abortion legislation or a stricter or more restrained type of abortion legislation than we currently have.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u94	Let me put the question differently, because I'm trying to take the Minister a little bit into my concerns. It's not gonna be him. It's not gonna be us here either. Some people don't feel the same way. I am referring to the development that is going on, even if you look at what is happening in other European countries: the restorative wind that is blowing, putting this kind of achievement into question everywhere. Does the Minister agree with me that this is a matter of concern, that we should address it and that the Minister is therefore in a position and opportunity to pay particular attention to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u95	I don't think this is so easy to describe, and I'll explain why. Of course I also read the newspaper and I also see interviews where I seriously frown my eyebrows. I would like to express my support for this and, frankly, I think we should not make it any bigger than it is. The sound of the flanks with this type of text is louder than the extent of the actual support for it. If I'm gonna join in, if I'm gonna say I'm really worried about that, aren't I just trying to burn it up? It is always my hesitation to make it greater than is strictly necessary. Am I afraid that the support that is now under Dutch abortion legislation reduces or disappears? Honestly, not so much. Why not? Because I think that the Dutch legislation on abortion is a very beautiful and very chosen balance between the right of women to self-determination and the protection of life on the one hand. It's embedded in current abortion legislation. I think that this is a good balance that does justice to the public support and also to the self-righteous commitment to values such as the protection of life. Let's not flatten that out either. It is an extremely legitimate position to stand up for that. I think that the current legislation on abortion meets both values, namely the protection of women's lives and the right to self-determination. For this reason, I believe that the current abortion legislation fits well with the support of Dutch society. I have no reason to suppose that's getting smaller.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u96	Finally, I would like to say to the Minister that I am not asking him to express his deep concern. I ask him to continue to pay attention to this issue and to show that we are all in favour of this legislation. We will no doubt discuss this further in the context of the review of the Law on Abrupt Pregnancy (Wafz).
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u97	The Minister states that he will have another meeting with the municipalities in the autumn. We have advocated that the Minister should continue to discuss the need for appropriate measures to be taken everywhere. Does it mean that if there are no changes, the Minister will not pick up the conversation in between?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u98	There is no obstacle to being in conversation every day of the year. I'm sure we'll answer the phone when we get a call. If we see reason or if we see reports that give rise to this, we will find contact with the municipality ourselves. The question is as follows: do you, as a state, have an additional form of support when it comes to enforcing the Public Events Act in order to do justice in an appropriate way, or do you have the right of municipalities to have access to abortion care in an adequate way? It has appeared to me that the answer to this question, if I ask municipalities if we can help or help more than we are doing now, is still no. That is why we also agreed to meet again in the autumn, so that we can ask that question again. And I'm always willing to think and help. For the moment, it does not seem necessary in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u99	The minister rightly indicated that municipalities think they have sufficient resources to do so. Can I conclude, then, that the Minister himself picks up the phone in between if he receives disturbing reports that there are no adequate measures yet to be taken?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u100	Sure. We read the paper right in the department, so when we get signals, we always grab the phone. Will do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u101	I think you were...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u102	A number of other questions, which are not necessarily related to this debate, but which have been asked. I would like to answer that as well as possible, as far as they have not been discussed frequently in the debate with Mr Blokhuis, such as the first question; the one on Siriz and VBOK. A wide-ranging debate has been held on the selection assistance talks and how they have been awarded. I do not think I can add anything to that, although I would like to, because everything that can be said about it has been said. We have been asked with precision about the forthcoming merger, the planned merger, between Siriz and VBOK and the extent to which the stasis was aware of it. I have been told that what the stasis knew, even before the award, he also informed the Chamber. He informed you in a letter that there were plans to consider the structure and the legal person, but that this does not affect the requirements that Siriz has to meet in this case. So even if they were to adopt a new union structure, they would still have to meet the same requirements as those on the basis of which they were awarded. These requirements are about transparency, about the mission and the vision, about the training to be followed, about compliance with Article 5.2 of the Abrupt Pregnancy Act, about the requirement that there should not be any steering action in the selection aid. Those demands won't be different. Those requirements have led to the award of the contract. And according to those requirements, supervision applies. That will also apply at the time of the merger between Siriz and the VBOK. There is a separate committee to oversee that. In addition, the inspection shall monitor the quality. Mr. Chairman. Then a question from the SGP, on a really different subject. So maybe we should finish the previous point first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u103	Okay. Mrs Ellemeet on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u104	First of all, a general point. We have added this issue to the agenda for this debate. So it's not like I'm bringing in something that wasn't on the agenda. It's good to say this. Mr. Chairman. The Minister does not answer my question as to whether it would be possible at all to have independent decision-making aid provided by a merged organisation of which VBOK is a member. The basis of VBOK's existence is the protection of the unborn child. This will never be compatible with the provision of independent choice support.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u105	I think there's something else going on here. I really think you should have this debate with the Secretary of State, because it's just his portfolio. But I think there's something else going on here. Siriz has been awarded on the basis of 25 demands. You know these requirements; they have been exchanged with your Room in advance. So you know these demands. These are the demands of transparency about the mission, about the vision, about training, about non-directive action in the assistance of choice; all kinds of demands that you have formulated in the Chamber. On the basis of those requirements was awarded. What is not possible, of course, is that you say in advance: by the way, once you have the award, you may never merge with anyone again, then you may never enter into any other cooperation with any other party. Of course, you can't say that in advance. You can say that nothing changes to the requirements under which the award was made. So if you change your governance structure and you change your mission or vision as an organization, that of course also gives you a new moment of review. It has been agreed that a separate committee of independent experts will monitor the requirements. In addition, there is a hotline at the inspection. So suppose that unexpectedly the organization suddenly behaves very differently after merger than the organisation that was awarded the contract after the assessment. Then, of course, a new weighting moment is on the agenda. But those are all what-if scenarios that happen when the time comes. You can't say in advance that you don't think that merger should happen. It can't be. It doesn't work that way. There is another article in the Constitution, freedom of association and assembly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u106	First of all, I would like to make a point of order. The cabinet is about his delegation. I can't help it if the Secretary of State isn't here when this subject is on the agenda. That can't be used against me. We're gonna have to do it together now, aren't we? I'm still not satisfied with the answer. Of course, you can see that an organisation set up with the mission to work for the protection of unborn life and the unborn child, in order to remain in the terms of this organisation, cannot by definition offer independent choice support. That simply can't be done. Paper's patient. The hoop of quality criteria through which organisations have to jump can also be formed in such a way that this organisation succeeds.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u107	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u108	My question is: can the Minister open his eyes and look at this organization, which has as its mission the protection of the unborn child and which, by definition, cannot provide that independent assistance? Can the Minister simply look at this factual situation and answer it instead of hiding behind criteria that can work well on paper but can never work properly in practice?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u109	In my view, I have already made myself clear how I see it, namely that the award was made on the basis of requirements that have also been put forward here in the Chamber. They've been discussed in detail. They're, I mean, 25 demands. Those requirements did not suddenly lapse after the award. No, in fact, those are the conditions under which the award was made. Those requirements will therefore continue to apply. There's no misunderstanding about that. Next, Mrs Ellemeet says: I know in advance that these demands will be ignored at the time when this organisation that has been awarded the contract enters into cooperation with the VBOK. I think that conclusion will then be drawn too quickly. I think we can safely assume that the requirements under which the contract was awarded will also be maintained after any merger has taken place, such as this one. It may indeed be possible to do so, but then we will have to make sure again, both the organisation itself and the committee of experts, as well as the inspection and reports, that these requirements are still met. If not, the award grounds will of course lapse. It is therefore a serious matter if that were to be the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u110	I'm going to see Mrs Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u111	My point is that you are jumping to the conclusion that that would not be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u112	The minister should actually compare it with a merger between the CDA and a party that wants to fight Christianity. They can agree on mortgage interest, but when it comes to mortgage interest, there is a fundamental difference between the values of one and the values of the other. That's what's going on here. Independent neutral choice aid presupposes that you keep all options open for the woman. If you then merge with an organization that is allowed to do so; I do not agree with it, but it may only focus on the protection of life and therefore will not be able to give a unilateral advice to women, then we have two incompatible parties here who are now receiving financial support from the government on the basis of criteria that we as a Chamber have not been able to see the test. Surely the Minister must agree with me that there is a real problem here?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u113	First of all, to reassure you that the CDA does not intend to merge with any party. This is reassuring. In my view, I have just been very clear that the facts and circumstances in which the award was made satisfy Siriz in this case the 25 requirements that have played a role in the tendering procedure? I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. At that point, it will have to be decided again whether or not we are satisfied, but there is nothing to say in advance. I understand that it is a planned merger and that the members of the organisations themselves are not just enthusiastic. Maybe it's not happening at all. You can't say in advance that a merger shouldn't be carried out. You just can't do that. An organisation will always be entitled to consider whether an organisation may be merged or formed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u114	Finally, Mrs Ploumen, because this was a repeat. Make it quick.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u115	I will be brief and I also have a new proposal. This means that at the moment Siriz and VBOK merge, let's say in November 2019, they will be placed again along the measuring line of those 25 criteria, and that the merged organisation will be looked at from the perspective of the merged organisation? So we can actually see a two-stage rocket. The first stage is the assessment that has taken place, and so at the time of the merger there will be a new one. I am happy to see that, and I welcome this commitment from Minister, because he acknowledges that something is changing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u116	I think this is a little too eager from Mrs Ploumen. What I would like to do is ask Mr Blokhuis to inform your Chamber of how he will deal with it. I would point out that, of course, these requirements must simply be met. Whatever organizational development is taking place, these requirements must be met. We have set up a structure with supervision by the IGJ, with an independent committee of experts looking into it. And how the Secretary of State would like to weigh that at the time, I'd like to leave it to him. I will ask him to inform your Chamber of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u117	Mr. Chairman. I just want to say that I find the example that Mrs Ploumen put forward a little unhappy. I would like to repeat, for the record, that the CDA stands on one side for the protection of the unborn child, but on the other side for the protection of the woman who is in that emergency and makes that choice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u118	Mr. Chairman. I did not want to hit Mrs van den Berg in the head in any way. She needs to know about me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u119	Then this point has also been clarified. Does the Minister have any questions to answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u120	Yes, a few more, Mr. Chairman. Mr Van der Staaij asked whether the Minister also saw the need for more aid. Sure. You also know the commitment of this cabinet. You know, of course, Mr Blokhuis's commitment to the choice-help talks, and my own commitment to combating repeated abortions in particular. That is also part of the medical ethics note. There is no doubt that we will come to talk about this. I will also report to you on this in the forthcoming progress report, which is due before the summer. In short: sure, that's what we're working on. Ms. Tellegen and Mrs. Ploumen asked how the Minister looked at the initiative of Scream for Life to take a bus to the abortion clinic. I have said earlier that I do not necessarily welcome this development, although the organisation is free to do it, of course within the framework of legislation and regulation. If that bus is on private property, there is of course something to be done, namely by the owner of that private property. But, on its own, it's not forbidden to have that help and support, or that call from that bus. It's okay. It has been asked whether the Minister intends to include misconceptions in medical education on abortion. The medical training has been carefully prepared. Sometimes new developments require adjustments, including training. My impression, however, is that this issue of abortion is very serious, well and carefully addressed in training. But especially if Mrs Ellemeet has received other signals about this, I am quite prepared to discuss it. However, those signals have not yet been shown to me. Mr President, that brings me to the end of my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u121	Thank you. Has there been a question left, Mrs Ellemeet?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u122	I would just like to respond to the Minister's last remark. So I've heard this from abortion doctors who are invited to give a lecture for medical students. They get back from those students, for example, that they have the impression that that is a very risky procedure. So there are still wrong ideas about abortion intervention, you might say, even in medical students. I hear from these abortion doctors that you should see if you shouldn't give more standard education about abortion, because not all students get that. Let me put it this way. Perhaps it is an idea that the Minister will discuss this with the abortion doctors to see what the problem is now and how that could be solved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u123	In my view, the example you mention is precisely a solution to the problem that you may see.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u124	Yeah, but that's occasional. So it's not standard that these doctors...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u125	I shall put the question as to whether that is indeed something that is going on. I hadn't heard him before.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u126	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u127	Thank you. I thank the Minister. I would also like to compliment the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u128	He's never been this short!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u129	He's never been this short. He's learning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u130	Because you looked so threatening, Mr. Chairman. I felt intimidated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u131	Then we have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Ellemeet on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u132	Thank you, Mr President. I'll start with my two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a movement in different places in the world that puts pressure on the right to abortion and sometimes even denies it;]] [[Whereas there is also a revival of an anti-abortion movement in the Netherlands;]] [[points out that women in the Netherlands must be able to opt for abortion safely and confidently and that politics is committed to protecting this acquired right,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ellemeet, Mr Ploumen, Mr Tellegen, Mr Hijink, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen and Mr Geleijne.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32279-163]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u133	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Siriz and VBOK knowingly waited for the announcement of their merger until after the award of a grant for independent assistance;]] [[Whereas the provision of independent choice aid at its core is incompatible with the basis of VBOK's existence, even after merger with Siriz;]] [[calls on the Government to withdraw the funding granted to Siriz as long as the merger with VBOK is not waived,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ellemeet and Mr Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32279-164]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u134	Finally, Mr President. I hope that the Minister will take a broad appeal from my colleagues and myself from this debate. We need a minister to speak on behalf of these women and to stand before and behind these women when it comes to their right to abortion. That is what this debate is primarily about, because it is very much needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u135	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Ploumen on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u136	Mr. Chairman. I'll start with my motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the organisation Scream for Life has announced that it is going to use anti-abortion campers or buses around abortion clinics;]] [[considers that women should not be addressed or harassed by representatives of this organisation;]] [[calls on the government to examine the possibility for municipalities to announce a parking ban in a broad radius around the abortion clinic for vehicles which are part of a strategy against abortion, and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the budget for elective interviews in the event of unwanted pregnancy should be used by organisations which presupposing the choice of women and providing non-directive information;]] [[Calls on the Government to inform the Chamber before 1 October 2019 of the composition of the committee to verify compliance with the criteria;]] [[invites the Government to immediately share with the Chamber the findings of this Committee,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ploumen, Mr Hijink and Mr Ellemeet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32279-165]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ploumen and Mr Ellemeet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32279-166]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u137	My final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas Siriz claims to meet the award criteria by providing independent and non-controlling assistance;]] [[noting that the administrative, financial and organisational link between Siriz and the Society for the Protection of the Unborn Child has been strengthened now a merger has been announced;]] [[calls on the Government to re-examine the award on the basis of the criteria laid down following the completion of the merger and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ploumen and Mr Ellemeet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32279-167]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u138	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u139	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Pia Dijkstra on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u140	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I also have a few motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that women feel intimidated by anti-abortion activists when visiting the abortion clinic;]] [[Whereas women's freedom of choice is a valuable achievement;]] [[Considering that responsibility for maintaining public order is primarily a municipal competence but that the Chamber should be kept informed about intimidating manifestations by anti-abortion activists;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Second Chamber periodically, but at least twice a year, of developments concerning harassment of women at abortion clinics,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Member Pia Dijkstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32279-168]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u141	Mr. Chairman. Then actually a call to ourselves as a room. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that freedom of demonstration is a principle of our democracy;]] [[noting that the right to women's freedom of choice is equally indispensable for our democracy;]] [[Whereas women who come into contact with the anti-abortion activists on their way to the abortion clinic may feel intimidated while these women are currently in a vulnerable situation;]] [[points out that the freedom of choice of a woman, as laid down in Dutch abortion legislation, is an achievement and that the harassment of women for an abortion clinic is reprehensible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Member Pia Dijkstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32279-169]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u142	Mr. Chairman. It was just an interrupting debate about the fact that there were few complaints. During this debate, I received an e-mail from a lady who said: 'I tried to report it, but it was declared inadmissible by the police because it was about freedom of expression'. That is why I think it is a good thing that we look at this more closely. That's why I'm filing the next motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u143	Oh, you have another motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u144	I've got another one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u145	I'd say fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u146	I'll make it quick. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that women in contact with the anti-abortion activists on their way to the abortion clinic may feel intimidated while these women are currently in a vulnerable situation;]] [[Whereas, on the basis of Article 284 of the Code of Criminal Law, harassment is punishable but can only be prosecuted if the person who claims to be intimidated lodges a complaint;]] [[calls on the government to consider, in consultation with abortion clinics, how to increase the willingness of women who feel intimidated and to inform the House of Representatives in the third quarter,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Pia Dijkstra and Mr Tellegen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32279-170]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u147	I thank the Minister for his answers. He has given a careful picture of the right to self-determination on the one hand and the right to demonstration on the other, two fundamental rights that are at odds here. I would like the Minister to give further consideration to the question of the right of demonstration or rather harassment and violation of privacy, which he announced next time with the municipalities, and possibly a criminal offence. Mrs Dijkstra already recalled the mail from the lady who climbed into the pen, but that also brings me to the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in the case of actions in abortion clinics there is (physical) harassment and impairment of the privacy of women and girls who are unwanted pregnant;]] [[Whereas the fundamental right of self-determination of every woman appears to be under pressure;]] [[Whereas the right to abortion should be protected and, where appropriate, defended;]] [[Whereas the right of demonstration is also a fundamental right but should not be abused to intimidate and harass other individuals;]] [[calls on the government to resume consultations with the municipalities concerned and to examine to what extent the right to demonstration or rather harassment and the violation of privacy is at stake,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Tellegen and Mr Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32279-171]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u148	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to thank the Minister for his reply and submit the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are women on a regular basis who, as a result of watchers at abortion clinics, discuss the provision of assistance to organisations such as There is Aid;]] [[noting that these women intended to have an abortion, but refused to do so when they were offered assistance;]] [[noting that studies show that doctors do not always pay attention to alternatives to abortion in the event of unwanted pregnancy;]] [[calls on the Government to require every doctor to point out to her, both orally and in writing, alternatives to abortion in the first interview with an unwanted pregnant woman,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32279-172]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u149	I wonder how Mr Van der Staaij sees this: requiring doctors to do something. Then how is the Minister gonna take care of that? Isn't a health care provider primarily responsible for the care he provides?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u150	For example, the Decree implementing the Abrupt Pregnancy Act lays down certain rules concerning the provision of alternatives. As far as I am concerned, this should be better regulated, either in the decision or possibly by further strengthening the law on that point. Because I do not think it is well arranged now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u151	But still, it's not up to the Minister to sit in the doctor's chair, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u152	In the context of the Law on Abrupting Pregnancy, a criterion has been very clearly chosen which I consider to be far too broad and too stretchy, but which is indeed being tested and which also helps to normalize medical practice. That is not something new, but that is just another interpretation of what is already happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u153	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u154	Finally, I would like to make one final point. The debate went a lot wider than just the actual subject, namely what was going on around the abortion clinic. It was also about the future of Dutch abortion legislation. I actually think those who were very worried were a bit right. It's not true that everyone thinks that abortion law is so great. You can see more criticism of the very broad abortion legislation in the Netherlands, as is shown by research. So where others are concerned, I actually hope there will be an improvement. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u155	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now turn to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u156	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Minister for his reflection on this issue. I support the lines he's using. It has been a debate full of dilemmas. We have talked about the dilemma facing women who are unintentionally pregnant, but also about the dilemma of freedom of choice on the one hand to break down pregnancy and, on the other hand, the right to demonstration and freedom of expression. The Minister has convinced me that there are sufficient instruments at local level to manage all of this. He also promised that he would continue to talk about this with municipalities, abortion clinics and organisations with which many people who demonstrate feel connected. I look forward to the Minister's further reaction. I'm assuming he'll keep the Chamber informed. I don't have any motions right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u157	Thank you very much, Mrs Dik-Faber. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van den Berg on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the answers. I have stated on several occasions that we attach importance to the balance between the protection of the unborn child on the one hand and the protection of the woman in an emergency on the other hand, and yet also the right to demonstrate. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas women are intimidated going to an abortion clinic;]] [[Whereas these women are particularly vulnerable because they are in a very difficult period of their lives;]] [[Whereas we must protect unborn life and provide assistance to women in an emergency situation as a result of an unwanted pregnancy;]] [[Whereas the right to samples should also be protected but that demonstration should not be intimidating or hindering;]] [[Whereas the municipality of Rotterdam has established a buffer zone;]] [[calls on the Government to remain in talks with municipalities with the aim of ensuring that appropriate measures are taken everywhere and to inform the Court of Justice by the end of 2019 at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van den Berg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32279-173]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u159	We therefore hope that the Minister will also keep his finger on the pulse and not just wait for the discussion in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u160	I have one more question. I don't have the motion in front of me yet, so I have to do it with the text as it was read. It was just as quickly about the buffer zone in Rotterdam and then about adequate measures at local level. Does the CDA mean that buffer zones must be established everywhere? Or does the CDA, like the Christian Union, want solutions and customization to be sought locally, because local problems are different?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u161	We have mentioned Rotterdam's buffer zone as an example. He is also in the recitals, but the operative part clearly states that we want adequate measures to be taken, and there are more avenues that can lead to Rome.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u162	Thank you. The last motion will be copied and distributed. I see that there is a need for a short suspension of about five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u163	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u164	Thank you, Mr President. I'll handle the motions in order of entry. First of all, the motion in part No. 163, which states that women in the Netherlands should be able to opt for abortion safely and confidently. That operative part is actually addressed to the Chamber. The Chamber shall address this operative part. That also leaves judgment to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 164 asks the government to withdraw the funding granted to Siriz until the merger with VBOK is abandoned. I must advise against it because of everything I have just said. The motion on the parking ban states that: "The government requests to examine the possibility for municipalities to announce a parking ban in a broad radius around the abortion clinic for vehicles which are part of a strategy against abortion." There is so much that opposes this motion, as there is the division of responsibility between the Empire and the municipalities, if there is anything there. I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u165	Mrs Ploumen, brief remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u166	The motion asks the government to examine to what extent it is possible for municipalities. So I'm not asking for an overall parking ban to be announced as a central government. I would ask you to investigate what municipalities can do in view of the possible harassment of women. That does not seem to me to be too much of a question, and it is entirely in line with your commitment to protect women's right to abortion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u167	We can have a very wide-ranging debate on this, but the motion calls on the government to examine to what extent it is possible for municipalities. In this way, you assume that municipalities can't come to their own judgement on what they like or don't like. The General Local Regulation is really a municipal jurisdiction, a municipal matter. They can include anything in the General Local Regulation. They really don't need the Empire for that. Parking policies, traffic measures and the possibility of allowing something of a demonstration in any form or form are all municipal powers. Municipalities really do not feel any need for interference, help or support from the Empire. So I really wouldn't think it was right to see this motion passed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u168	Clear. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u169	The motion in part No. 166 is about the committee set up to check that the criteria are met. It touches the motion in part No. 167 which requests the Government to review the award on the basis of the criteria laid down following the completion of the merger. That is actually what our debate has just been about. I have already promised that I will ask Mr Blokhuis, who is to advise you on this matter, for both the motion for a resolution on item No. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I would like to ask him to return to the House in writing so that he can send you the opinion prior to the vote. In the motion in part No. 168 Ms Dijkstra asked the government to inform the Chamber periodically, but at least twice a year, of developments. I want to do that twice this year. This evening, I informed you in detail about the extent to which I have been shown that there would be complex demonstrations which might have led to harassment of women. I informed you about that tonight. I would like to inform you again in the autumn, after I have had the conversation with municipalities. So this year it's going to be twice. If things work out the way I think they are, next year I would just like to inform you once a year in the progress report. If I may understand your motion this year twice a year; as from next year once a year in the progress report, then I would be worthy of a sweet thing and I could give the motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u170	I think it's okay if the Minister understands it this way. If things get out of hand again, we can always debate them again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u171	You are always free to ask for new letters every week. Then we'll jump in the posture. Mr. Chairman. Also the operative part in the motion in part No. 169 is a "spoken" and is addressed to the Chamber. I shall leave this to the Chamber as well. The motion in part No. 170 calls on the government, in consultation with abortion clinics, to consider how to increase the willingness of women who feel intimidated and to inform the Chamber in the third quarter of 2019. I understand the background to your motion, because we have just had a debate on it. I think it is too early to note that there is a lack of willingness to report, but I think it is good to put that question to the appropriate abortion clinics. We'll talk again in the fall anyway. Then I want to include that question. May I explain your motion as follows? I'm going to ask if there's any perceived lack of willingness to report. If the answer to that question is yes, I'll see what I can do with it. Then I can move this motion and leave the judgment to the Chamber. That is the Dijkstra/Tellegen motion. The Tellegen/Ploumen motion in part No. 171 calls on the government to resume consultations with the municipalities concerned and to examine the extent to which the right to demonstrate or rather harassment and the violation of privacy is at stake. I have just given you the explanation I give in relation to this particular issue, i.e. the right of demonstration on the one hand and the right to free access to abortion care on the other. I have also indicated to you the more administrative approach to the concept of harassment, in which the experience of women is important, in addition to the more criminal approach to the word 'intimidation', where there must always be a threat of violence in the criminal justice system. As you put forward the motion, it is actually a rather fundamental consideration of the right of demonstration. I know that there is a general discussion at the end of this month on the right of demonstration, with Mr Ollongren. This really seems to me to be an issue to be raised there. Of course I will ask the congregations again in the autumn if I can be of any further service and if there is an instrument that is not yet in the toolbox. I'll ask that question myself. However, a further clarification of the right of demonstration seems to me to be more relevant in the debate with Mr Ollongren. The question of demonstration and It applies not only to the demonstrations around abortion clinics, but also, for example, to all black-picked demonstrations. The same problem also arises there. It is therefore a broader issue, which does not only concern abortion clinics.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u172	Yeah, that's right. It is, of course, a more fundamental question, about both fundamental rights. But the question in this debate is, of course, how do we help those women who are intimidated, who do not feel free to enter that abortion clinic, who are being harassed? We are talking a lot about the right to demonstrate and that this needs to be protected. That's what I'm all for. But how do we help these women the most? By pointing out to them that they can also press charges. By pointing out to them that there are also individual possibilities to protect themselves, by going to the police. That is the background to this motion, to make that distinction. We can say to these women that we have set up a profession somewhere and that they have nothing to do with the protesters standing there, but that is not always the case, because they are also being harassed individually. If I may understand the Minister in such a way that he is asking this question, in line with the motion in part No. 170 which Mrs Dijkstra has submitted, is taking up in his next consultation and he is going to see how he can better accompany these women individually, because that is the background to this story. I am prepared to include this motion in the AO Demonstration Law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u173	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u174	So hold on for now. Let me get this straight. Yes, that's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u175	I'd love to. Thank you. Then the motion to part No. 172 by Mr Van der Staaij. It calls on the government to oblige every doctor to point out to her, both orally and in writing, the alternatives to abortion in the first interview with an unwanted pregnant woman. I believe that a number of issues in the current legislation are opposed to this. This current legislation is part of an evaluation. I'm talking about the Law of Abrupt Pregnancy. That evaluation will be completed in the first quarter of 2020 and will then also be the subject of discussion with your Chamber. I believe, therefore, that I will have to discourage the motion in its present form. First of all, let us have that debate properly in order to see what is not going well and what could be better, rather than suddenly introducing all kinds of new obligations for doctors into the law. Then the motion to part No. 173, inviting the government to remain in dialogue with municipalities with the aim of ensuring that appropriate measures are taken everywhere and informing the Court of Justice by the end of 2019. This is in line with my commitment to resume talks with municipalities in the autumn. I will indeed inform you of that. So this is policy support, and for that reason, I can leave the judgment to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u176	I am prepared to hold on to my motion, but I do have the following in mind of Mrs van den Berg's motion for a resolution on appropriate measures. Of course, we can come up with a lot more, but I am referring to the individual guidance of those women versus that great right to demonstration which may not be of much benefit to them at all because they are intimidated individually. Can I understand the Minister so that he will take this specific question with him in consultation with the municipalities?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u177	And in consultation with the abortion clinics. The vote will take place at the next voting time. 170, which you have submitted together with Mrs Dijkstra, and for the motion on item No. 173 by Mrs Van den Berg, that is because of the combination. I'm gonna start the conversation with the municipalities and the abortion clinics. You want me not only to ask what could be more useful in their tool kit to manage that demonstration so as to avoid intimidation. It is therefore about the question at the individual level: how can we prevent the experienced intimidation of women as much as possible and then help it, for example, if we do something about the willingness to report, the clarification as such and what you really do not have to take and what you can report? That's how I understand your question. That's how I start the conversation. I will come back to that in your direction in the autumn. The more fundamental debate on how to limit the right to free demonstration and when freedom of demonstration turns into intimidation should, I think, take place between Mr Ollongren and your colleagues from the Committee on the Interior.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u178	Thank you. This brings us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-33.u179	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I thank the Minister. I thank the Members of Parliament, the people in the public gallery, the staff, the clerks and the officials.
