ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u1	The next item is the debate on the record of incidents in the Alien Chain Reporting. I welcome the Secretary of State for Justice and Security and give the floor to Mrs Van Toorenburg as the first speaker on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u2	Mr. Chairman. Some time ago, in 2017, we were confronted with a WODC report that showed that the nature and extent of crime committed by asylum seekers were not so bad. The report was given the title: From perception to fact. But unfortunately, that conclusion was not justified. In fact, many aspects were not taken into account. That didn't give us a pretty picture. We've talked about it a number of times. And the commitment made by the cabinet was clear: from now on, transparent, fair and full communication would be made on crimes related to asylum seekers. Nice, we thought. After all, it is very important that we conduct the debate on asylum seekers on the basis of facts, open and honest. The asylum debate is a loaded debate. The key word here is support surface. When people get the feeling that facts are being withheld and things are being covered up, the support surface melts like snow for the sun. Mr. Chairman. Unfortunately, we are again here today, because once again there has been no clear, complete and clear communication on criminal offences linked to asylum seekers. On the contrary. During the preparation of the report foreigners were acknowledged that this report contained shortcomings, but has nevertheless been reported as reported. The question is, why? Why do people feel the pressure on this department to do so? Why deliberately wrote down the most serious crimes under the heading of 'other', which gave the impression that the crimes committed by asylum seekers would not be affected? The Secretary of State writes that there are no indications that this has been done for a deliberate purpose, but he does not indicate why that decision was made. We need to know. We need to understand what has been going on here. In the letter from the Secretary of State, my group states that he too is very unhappy with this. I read his need to be genuinely accountable for this in the Chamber. I give him a generous opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u3	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Wilders on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u4	Madam President. After the receipt from Bitches, we now have Harbers' list. Other key players, but the same practices. Managed by VVD- and CDA-maffiosi, the so-called Ministry of Law-and-order shows us what it really is good at. Misdirection, deception, manipulation: everything is pulled out of the closet to conceal unpleasant news. This time, the Netherlands had to be lied to about the real state of the asylum industry, because the sacred grail of the European Union, its open borders, must of course be protected at all costs. Figures were therefore muffled away and statistics skillfully polished up. 4,600 crimes by asylum equipment is of course not a nice business card for this multicultikabinet. Mr. Chairman. Secretary of State Harbers therefore sent the Netherlands only a top ten asylum crime, containing the most common offences, such as shoplifting, threat and destruction. But behind that smokescreen of the heading "other" he hid the gruesome reality: a thousand cases of child abuse, attempted murder, perhaps also murder, and sexual assault. You'll only be a victim of such an assault or rape, you'll only be a survivor of such a murdered victim, you'll only be the mother of an abused child, and then you'll see that the crime that destroyed your life by the Secretary of State is covered up under the heading "other" because the defendant is an asylum seeker. You can't describe that with a pen. Information about the safety of our country's inhabitants is being covered up. That is a shameful and shameless deception, a contempt of the Dutch citizen, a dagger stab in the back of the victims and the next of kin. But it didn't stop there. While the Ministry has been well aware of the true seriousness of asylum crime for weeks, last Friday the Secretary of State stood in front of RTL News' camera to trivialize the case. It would be a "small group of wheeldrivers"; a small group of wheeldrivers would cause some nuisance. With that, he deliberately disguised that they are not wheeldrivers. It's people who kill and abuse, who have assaulted girls and women. It's pure deception to call them "wheeldrivers" when it's actually about rapists and killers. The long arm of the political mafia, which seems to be on the brink of the rotten Ministry of Justice and Security, also reaches here, in the House of Representatives, because last week the government parties did everything they could to lift this debate over the elections, not to keep it this week but next week. Oh woe is that the Netherlands knows before the elections where the asylum industry of the VVD and their friends lead. The fact that we are standing here today is not because the coalition parties suspected that the cover-up of figures is not possible, but because it is about the security of our country and the Secretary of State that has got into trouble.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u5	However, I would like to point out that we requested the debate here last week. Mr Wilders hasn't even done that. We have requested the debate and have also immediately indicated that we wanted to have the debate as soon as there was a letter. These are also the facts in this case. When Mr Wilders talks about 'let's talk about facts', he would be delighted that this is also the case here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u6	No, that's not the case. The facts are that there was a letter on Friday night, that there was a letter on Thursday, Friday. At the time there was a debate on the draft schedule for this week. I understand that it was the coalition parties who drove it behind the scenes through the Registry of the draft agenda. Probably you were.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u7	This is precisely the subject of the debate, namely that we should talk about it and not about suspicions and not about cleaning away. So what we as CDA have done with the support of the Chamber is request the debate. That was not Mr Wilders, that was us. Then we indicated that we wanted a letter explaining how this could have gone wrong. We received that letter today, and we now have the debate on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u8	No, another CDA lie. That letter was already there on Friday and you made sure that although it came to the concept schedule, it was done because the CDA dream of multicultural society fell apart. Thank you, CDA! Mr. Chairman. So why are we debating now? Again, because the Secretary of State got into trouble. He couldn't hide it anymore. He himself has called for a debate with the Chamber today. If there is one ministry that should have learned some lessons from all those political smokescreens in recent years, all those pieces that have been swept under the carpet, then it is the Ministry of Justice. They really haven't learned anything from it. Probably lost another regiment by now. And rightly so, because the Secretary of State has incompletely informed the Chamber of crimes committed by lucky seekers in the Netherlands who have committed mass crimes more than a thousand times from sexual assault to murder. And if you don't report that, you're gonna have to quit. I also suggest you do that. And if you don't do that by yourself, I'll table a motion to that effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u9	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u10	Mr. Chairman. We are dealing here with a group of criminal asylum seekers who cause a great deal of insecurity. A group that the cabinet can't get out of the country. If that is the case, if that causes insecurity, then you have to be honest about it, because if you don't, then you really only feed more the feeling of insecurity and mistrust. Especially now that it appears that the Ministry has also been warned internally, that is very serious. And it's not the first time things have been covered up or withheld from the Department of Justice. And that makes us have the necessary questions why things can go so wrong over and over again. Mr. Chairman. In his letter, the Secretary of State states that the discussions indicated that categories were not good and that problems would arise. My question is very specific: has it been discussed with the Secretary of State himself or has it been around him that others have discussed it? Has the Secretary of State heard that this has been a consideration in his final assessment and has he not made that assessment himself? After all, it is not the first time that the Court has deliberately asked for these figures to be made public and transparent when it comes to serious offences in relation to asylum seekers. Didn't you have to ring a bell? Mr. Chairman. I take it so high, because it is not the first time that information in this department has been covered up, not correct, half-represented. It is not for nothing that this department has been tripped before. Every time there's a promise of getting better. What makes that not happen? What makes people go wrong in this way over and over again? What makes it possible to go so wrong and not learn from it? Who or what's gonna stop that? And who or what can stop this from happening? Mr. Chairman. My final question is equally relevant to the content. Why can't we be transparent and honest about the figures when it comes to criminal asylum seekers? And why can't they get out of the country, despite all the tough talk and despite all the serious words? Mr President, I will conclude. We must be able to trust in our country that the directors are honest with us, even if the truth is sometimes somewhat uncomfortable. Because if we don't, it feeds the feeling of insecurity and then feeds the feeling of distrust. And trust comes on foot, and goes on horseback.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u11	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Grothuizen on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u12	Thank you, Mr President. I respect that the Secretary of State is accountable here today, because that is necessary. The issue of asylum is very sensitive, and criminality by asylum seekers is perhaps the excess. For many Dutch people that feels like a guest is being let in, who then takes advantage of that hospitality. Mr. Chairman. How can it be that, in such a sensitive subject, the Secretary of State fails to inform the Chamber so badly? This very Secretary of State promised full openness and transparency, and rightly so, after the many affairs at his ministry in the past. But how does that promise of full openness and transparency relate to what has happened here? How can it be that if the objective is complete openness, registrations of serious crimes fall under the heading of other crimes? How is it that De Telegraaf has to press several times to get openness? How is it possible that crucial and sensitive information is withheld by the State Secretary's own officials at the Ministry? And how is it that it is now apparent that there were indeed signs that the representation of figures in the foreign report could lead to questions and comments, but that nothing has been done about it? And why was the blame placed directly on the police? On all these points, I would like a response from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. What makes all this even more poignant is that the Ministry of Justice is not under attack for the first time: over and over again mistakes that have cost VVD executives the head, and over and over again promises that it will be better in the future because of greater openness and transparency. But once again the result is that undesirable facts, the reality, have been muffled away. What does that say about culture in the Ministry of Justice and Security? "JenV changes," as the change program was so hopefully called. It certainly doesn't look like it. What is the government doing, so I ask the Secretary of State, to prevent us from standing here again soon and the next ruler is under attack at Justice? I would also like a response from the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. Then I would like to make another point. D66 stands for receiving refugees. Real refugees who need protection, we offer a safe place. They have a right to do so. In the last few days, I've been bothering myself with the news. Big words were used about data that are often not so unambiguous or that a complex world is hiding behind. The nuance between registration and guilt is fundamental to our rule of law as far as D66 is concerned. I firmly believe that too little nuance does not do justice to the complex issue of migration, nor to the complexity of our rule of law. Even more, I have disturbed myself by the ease with which people are not addressed to their individual actions, but to their membership of a group. And let me be very clear on that: that is not acceptable to D66. If people commit crimes, the police have to track them down, and then the D.A. can prosecute and file the case with the judge. It is up to the government to be honest and transparent about this. And it happens that asylum seekers commit criminal offences, and they should not run away from that. But I refuse to put away a whole group of negatives because some of them do wrong things. As far as I am concerned, that goes against everything that the Netherlands stands for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u13	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u14	I'd like to ask Mr. Van D66 a question. Is that not the result of your European fairy tale, your fairy tale of the European Union, in which all those lucky seekers and profiteers are allowed to enter? We have seen how massive that has happened in recent years. And yes, a few? That's almost as bad as the word "wheeldrivers" from the Secretary of State. It's about hundreds, thousands of cases. There are people among them who have assaulted, murdered, attempted murder, abused people badly, committed open violence, committed shoplifting by force. That is all the result of your European fairy tale. Those open borders of yours have led to this kind of misery for the Dutch citizen near the azc's, which you have proudly established with a D66 stamp. Are you not in a position to acknowledge that this multicultural drama of yours, that fairy tale, has now fallen apart and that we must get rid of it? We must let the Netherlands be ours again and we must send those lucky seekers away.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u15	It was a long story, but the answer is short: no. The issue of migration is complex, but I think that the only way we can manage it is through European cooperation. It is precisely when we work together at European level that we can deal with this issue and we can solve it in a good way. My party stands for something quite different from Mr Wilders' party, which does exactly what I said in my first term, namely to put people on the same footing and to assign them the predicate 'fault' with all kinds of mischief. I'll pass for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u16	Did the D66 colleague say "solve in a good way"? This is the result of your solution. During the last six years, Prime Minister Rutte has not entered half a million non-Western immigrants. There are hundreds of thousands of asylum seekers. This year and last year it was between 30,000 and 40,000. Your European project, your European Union project, so to speak, is a tragedy! It makes the Netherlands unsafe and causes our daughters to be raped and innocent people to be murdered. Those are your asylum seekers! It would be a pleasure for you to say: that failed, I am not going to do that anymore. But you obviously say: let's not talk about that; come in; beware, Dutch, for you are dead. D66 does not represent the safety of the Dutch, but stands for all those lucky seekers from the world. You're not worth a snipe.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u17	Mr Wilders has listened poorly to my speech. D66 states that we offer people who are persecuted in their own country or who have to flee from war violence, a good home here and receive here in an appropriate way. And yes, it also happens that people who apply for asylum here commit criminal offences. We have to fight that. But I refuse to pretend that anyone who asks for asylum here is committing criminal offences. That's just permanent bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u18	Another point. You also said that you felt that there was a need to take tough action. If that were the case at least! But that is not the case either. Of those 4,600 cases of serious criminals, who commit the worst crimes, from molesters to murderers, from people who openly commit violence to the end, five were deported; one handful. Of those 4,600, 5 have been deactivated. Do you know why only five have been turned off? Because all kinds of European rules forbid us to expel people who have committed crime to the country of origin. So where Europe has made sure that all these guys come in and rape our daughters and women, Europe is also making sure that we can't evict them and not send them away. You're insane!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u19	Once again, Mr Wilders misses the point. If he takes the trouble to go to Ter Apel, he can visit a prison where there are many strangers. Many foreigners who commit criminal offences are therefore condemned in this country, sometimes even to very long prison sentences. Mr Wilders says that the expulsion policy is the Achilles heel of our foreign policy. I agree with him. That's very complicated. Sometimes there are good reasons for it being very complicated, but we have to work very hard on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u20	Finally, Mr Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u21	I hear terrible bullshit. Do we have to work very hard on that? That's because of Brussels! I'm not talking about them going to jail here in the Netherlands. I am sure that 99% of the Dutch, including the D66 people, believe that murdering and raping asylum seekers should be expelled from our country. You really screwed up your stay in the Netherlands when you do that. You say that we need to tackle it, but Europe is the one that is preventing us from deporting them. These are European rules that do not allow this, such as the European Convention on Human Rights and European regulations. So be a man and just say that Europe has brought them here and that Europe has also made sure that we cannot send them away. We're stuck with all these guys because of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u22	It remains a bit of a nonsense from Mr Wilders. Taking away the residence permit from refugees is possible if they have committed criminal offences. This also fits perfectly within European legislation. Mr Wilders referred in passing to the European Convention on Human Rights. If we send people back to a country where they run the risk of being hanged, for example, yes, then the European Convention on Human Rights stands in the way of sending them back. To be honest, I am proud of that, because people who commit serious offences also have certain basic rights.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u23	Thank you, Mr. Groothuizen. I now give the floor to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u24	Thank you, Mr President. I do not think it has happened so often that at a press conference prior to a debate in the Chamber, a member of the government is expecting this to be his last debate. Over the years, we have seen various variants of resignation: resignation outside the Chamber, resignation with a statement prior to a debate in the Chamber, resignation after a debate in the Chamber. But I didn't know this variant yet, and that's what my first question to the Secretary of State is about. Does he have the will or the expectation to complete his term at all, or does he intend to resign regardless of the outcome of this debate? If he comes to the heavy qualification of this debate, and he apparently did so this afternoon, why exactly now? That is my second question. Last week, this Secretary of State also knew that information which he himself felt should have gone to the Chamber did not go to the Chamber or, in other words, was hidden under a category of 'other'. So I am very curious as to why the Secretary of State, after the reconstruction he is talking about, has come to the conclusion that this may be his last debate. Mr. Chairman. It is clear that there is something very wrong with the political antenna at the Ministry of Justice and Security. I also think that it has never happened before that in a period of about four years four rulers were brought into such great political problems that they had to resign, because something was thoroughly wrong with the political antenna of the ministry for which they were responsible. I do not think that has happened before in Dutch political history. The question is, of course, what conclusion do we draw from this and what conclusion does the Secretary of State draw from this with regard to cultural change and the improvement of quality in the ministry for which he is responsible? Madam President. In addition to taking full political responsibility for what is going on in his ministry, it is to be commended to this Secretary of State that he is obviously taking the information position of this Chamber so seriously that he has speculated on it at least at the press conference that he is prepared to draw the strongest political conclusion that is conceivable. Mr. Chairman. Those who want protection in the Netherlands should behave decently and not reward our hospitality with misconduct and thus ruin it for the vast majority of people who ask for asylum in the Netherlands and who really need protection. The words that Mr Groothuizen has just spoken about have been taken from my heart in this respect. Is it true, for example, that I would like to ask the Secretary of State, that my impression is that it is often mainly asylum seekers from so-called safe countries who commit these major mistakes? Those people, you could say they might not have so much to lose. They have no right to protection here and should actually be deported, but that is not possible for all kinds of reasons. They would therefore commit these missteps. Is that right? Maybe the Secretary of State can tell us what's happened at his ministry lately to reduce the chances that these kinds of people commit crimes. Mr President, I will conclude. It is very important that we be honest about the nuisance and crimes committed by asylum seekers. There's no point in sweeping it under the carpet. You have to solve problems and not hide them. We hope that the Secretary of State, this or his successor, will soon be able to take steps in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u25	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Jasper van Dijk on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u26	Mr. Chairman. The Chamber was incompletely informed by the Ministry of Justice and Security last week. Information has been kept under review by hiding serious crimes under the category of "other" in a report on crime among asylum seekers. This is a serious mistake, because it is a question of safety for staff, but also for society. The Ministry did not consider it necessary to disclose these figures. These include murder and manslaughter, rape and sexual abuse. Even after warnings, your ministry continued: the Chamber does not need to know this. That can't be right. The departure of the Secretary of State is therefore inevitable. But what exactly was the role of the Secretary of State? Did he think about the presentation of the report himself? Was he okay with concealing important figures himself? I'd like a response. Only through De Telegraaf came the whole list above the table. Once again, we must get the right information from the media instead of the government. Funest for trust in politics. For the government, the truth is an option. Only when lying really isn't possible can we get the full information. At first, the police were still trying to pin the blame on them. The Ministry stated that it was the police who compiled the figures in this way. The police response showed that the figures had long been known to the Ministry. Can the Secretary of State confirm that? That would be shameless. Has the government apologized to the police yet? Mr. Chairman. The Chamber should've gotten all the information right away. That's what the SP said from the start. The cloaking of crucial information strengthens the impression that the lie rules. It is precisely in order to maintain support for the reception of refugees that the government must provide all the information, including the unpleasant information. As regards the SP, we offer a place to people in need, but criminal asylum seekers, including many people from safe countries, need to be addressed. The numbers don't lie, that's how we know. It's not the first time it's gone wrong in the Department of Justice and Security. I call the predecessors Mr Teeven, Mr Opstelten and Mr Van der Steur. All rulers at Justice, all left. What's going on at that ministry? And another thing: they're all VVDs too. Secretary of State Harbers is the fourth VVD to leave Justice in four years. How does he explain this? It seems like a function requirement to be able to put things under the carpet as a VVD. They're all VVDs, just like our prime minister, the final agent. The VVD as guardian of the rule of law is completely unbelievable. That is why we wanted to have a debate with the Prime Minister. But that was not supported by the coalition, while the Prime Minister must find a replacement and the Prime Minister must also answer the question of how he will restore credibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u27	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u28	Madam President, thank you very much. With a certain frequency the media reports on criminal behaviour of asylum seekers. It is obvious that this gives rise to growing displeasure in society. You don't have to have a lot of political feelings to know that this makes a report on foreign affairs or the alien chain extremely sensitive. Information on serious criminal activities of asylum seekers should be completely transparent and complete. Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State states that his employees have warned several times that the method chosen in the Reporting Strangers Chain would give a misrepresentation of things and would lead to serious doubts in the Chamber and in society. That under the political responsibility of the Secretary of State was nevertheless chosen to stick to the chosen form of reporting, which is therefore the ten-point list of the ten-point list, therefore weighs very heavily politically. The Secretary of State himself draws firm conclusions in his letter and the SGP Group does not feel a tendency to put them into perspective in any way. However, we would like to express our appreciation for the fact that the Secretary of State himself has asked the Chamber for a debate in order to be able to justify itself. I have three more questions for the Secretary of State. First of all, to what extent was he aware in advance of the concerns of his employees about the intended method of reporting, as he states in the letter? The second question is: what has the Secretary of State done to ensure that the Foreigner's Chain of Reports would give full openness to incidents involving asylum seekers? Thirdly, what action has the Secretary of State taken to prevent such a situation in his ministry? Several colleagues have already pointed out that this ministry has often caused major political problems for the directors. I'm not going to repeat that. Mr. Chairman. The SGP would like to await the Secretary of State's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u29	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Becker on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u30	Mr. Chairman. Many people understand the temporary reception of people fleeing war and violence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u31	Mr Wilders, Mrs Becker has spoken for about one second.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u32	Yeah, that's true. But I was wondering, with all due respect to Mr Becker, where Mr Dijkhoff and the Prime Minister are. Here is a secretary of state who, if we can believe the media, has announced his own departure. It's like the VVD wants to kick him in the sewer as soon as possible. Where is the Prime Minister to support him? Where is the chairman of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats to say what he thinks about putting his heart under his belt or kicking him out? Where's the VVD? Where are they?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u33	The VVD is in front of you. I am the spokesman for the VVD in the field of asylum and migration. We have this debate with many other spokesmen from the various groups. Mr Wilders himself chooses to be here as group chairman. I think that is up to every group. I think I can perfectly defend my group myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u34	At least there is enough confidence in your own group from the applause, but I have my doubts about that. Not if you can defend that properly, but surely it will not be the case that in this House a debate in which a State Secretary announces his departure is not even being held by group chairmen, especially by the coalition parties and by the four coalition parties, certainly by the VVD? They're dropping Secretary Harbers just like they did before, just like hell. It's okay with me. I think he should resign, so no crocodile tears of "help that man." But it is significant that Mr Rutte and Mr Dijkhoff are probably drinking sherry in something I know where around here and just drop it. Shame!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u35	Mr Dijkhoff has just responded to several questions from the press. The debate is here today with the spokesmen. I'm going to continue my argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u36	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u37	I just said that people in themselves understand the temporary reception of people fleeing war and violence. But it is unacceptable if this hospitality is abused by asylum seekers who steal, commit violence, commit a sexual crime or even kill or kill someone. There's only one answer here. Asylum seekers who come here appealing to our security but then making our country more unsafe must be detained and deported in order never to return. This has always been the agenda of the VVD in recent years, not only from the Chamber, but also from the Cabinet. Tackling criminal and nuisance asylum seekers harder. Put more often and faster in detention. In case of a conviction, more quickly refuse or withdraw a residence permit. Put them separately in aso-azc's. Making agreements with safe countries such as Morocco and Algeria, so that the people who come from here can be returned more quickly. It fits in with this agenda that my predecessor Malik Azmani had previously been promised by the cabinet that there should be more transparency about the crimes committed by asylum seekers in the Netherlands. I also believe that that is what these Secretary of State and previous Secretary of State have in mind and had in mind. Where incidents at COA locations were not reported at all in the past, this happened from 2016. In 2018 it was decided to extend the reports further to incidents outside the COA locations. And rightly so, because we need to know what possible insecurity is caused by asylum seekers in our society in order to deal with them. We received this more extensive report last week. However, as far as the VVD was concerned, it should not only have mentioned the number of incidents, but also the number of incidents. The fact that serious incidents have come under the category "other" is a mistake. That's what the Secretary of State thinks, as we read. Mr. Chairman. I have no reason to believe that the Secretary of State himself deliberately did so, but the fact is that the mistake has been made. It is to the credit of the Secretary of State that he comes here today to answer for this. I would therefore ask the Secretary of State to explain how this could have happened. Last week, he wrote that there was a customary way of reporting to JenV with a top ten approach to most common incidents and that serious incidents were unintentionally resolved in the category "other." But today I draw from his letter that a deliberate consideration has indeed been made at the ministry to choose precisely this way of reporting. Can the Secretary of State explain this? How were the figures provided by the police and the judiciary, and what considerations were then made? What exactly do they say about the number of actual offences and what is the relationship between the number of convictions and refusals or the withdrawal of residence permits? Much remains to be done about this. Finally, Mr President. What conclusions does not only the Secretary of State draw today, but also the Department on how to act in the future? If the Secretary of State takes responsibility for a mistake today, the question is still for the future how better this kind of information will be dealt with and whether it will actually be done. I'd like an explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u38	There have been serious crimes under the hat. I didn't want the Chamber to know that at first. It's only after the media has pushed us that we know what we're talking about. I think that is a serious mistake on the part of the Ministry and the responsible Secretary of State. Does the VVD share that opinion and is this Secretary of State entitled to remain in the VVD or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u39	It is precisely this State Secretary who is working on an agenda of greater transparency and of tackling criminal asylum seekers. I have just said that I have no reason to believe that this Secretary of State would knowingly want to sweep serious crimes under the carpet. However, the fact is that the figures for these serious offences have fallen under the category "other" and that the VVD considers this to be a mistake. I have just made that clear in my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u40	That's not an answer to my question. I would like to ask Mrs Becker the question she herself asked the government at the end: what is the Ministry going to do to restore confidence? I have already said in my term that this important department of justice has been under the control of the VVD for the last nine years as of 2010. So I also need to be at the VVD for that question. What lessons will your party draw from this? And how are you going to restore confidence in this ministry so that society can have confidence that this important department is well run? 'Cause so far, that's not gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u41	I have just spoken about the agenda of this Secretary of State and of previous Secretary of State in the department. That agenda is precisely to tackle this type of issue and to make it more transparent. I also believe that is what the Secretary of State wanted to do. Only the fact is that a mistake has been made here. I'd like to know how that happened. It is to the credit of the Secretary of State that he is answerable for this today. But I do not want us to walk out of here today, and people in the department can continue to make mistakes that are apparently made there. So I want to know how it happened that this mistake was made. And I also want to know what lessons the department is taking from this for the future. I know that there is a whole improvement plan in the department, a change of culture and more transparency. But apparently that has not yet produced the desired results. So I have that question, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u42	Finally. Does Mrs Becker of the VVD have the guts to acknowledge here that the last nine years are not just incidents? There were four consecutive outgoing VVD executives. Does Mrs Becker have the guts to acknowledge that this is not an incident but a pattern? Does she recognise that it would be very bad if the Prime Minister were to simply appoint a replacement of the VVD for the Secretary of State and simply proceed to the order of the day? Does she recognise that there is a structural problem with VVD executives in this ministry?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u43	I don't think there's anyone here who's arguing for the "just going back to the order of the day." But I also refuse to go along with the insinuations as if there had been a political strategy here to sweep things under the carpet. The VVD, precisely the party of this Secretary of State, has been the party that has forced greater transparency. In the past, no such incidents were reported at all. The fact that this report is now available is a commitment to, among other things, the VVD. And, of course, lessons must be learned to prevent this kind of error in the future. I asked the same question as Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u44	Could I ask the colleague of the VVD the following? Do you think Secretary Harbers should resign?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u45	I have heard colleagues who, even before they have heard the answer from the Secretary of State, have reached that conclusion. I have read the letter from the Secretary of State, in which he writes that he can imagine that this would be his last debate. I think it would be a good thing for us, the spokesmen, to give him the opportunity to explain and, if necessary, to draw his own conclusions. I think that's better than I'm gonna do right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u46	Yeah, but we do know what, don't we? I think it happened deliberately, you don't think so. But the fact remains that, at least under the responsibility of the Secretary of State, the Chamber has been incompletely informed. It is up to Members of Parliament to check the cabinet; we are paid for it. One of the major main sins is that the Chamber is incompletely informed. Imagine if that stays intact, regardless of the motives. Imagine that the Chamber is not sufficiently informed. Does Mrs. Becker think the Secretary of State should resign?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u47	The remarkable thing is, even before we received the letter from the Secretary of State today, Mr Wilders felt that this Secretary of State should resign. Last week, he thought, even before Mr Wilders could read that this Secretary of State indicated: it may not only be unintentional, but it may also be deliberate. I think that consideration should first be explained by the Secretary of State. Mr Wilders has tabled motions of censure to the House. He thinks the cabinet should go. That's obvious. We go a lot more neatly with this Secretary of State to give him the opportunity to give his own answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u48	It's not about us dealing neatly with this Secretary of State. The point is that we treat the Dutch people nicely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u49	Sure. Also. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u50	The Dutch population is turned in front of the eyes every time by the VVD. You leave the boundaries open. You make sure people can't be deported. This is the second time in three years that De Telegraaf comes up with that information: first via a WOB request and then you sat both times in the cabinet by calling yourself. Instead of the Secretary of State himself bringing it up, we have to find out through journalism that they're murderers, that they're rapists. Why not stand behind the Dutch, who are victims of this, behind the family members of the girls who have been raped or the people who have been murdered? You mustn't stand behind him! You must have no respect for the man who put it under the carpet but for the Dutch.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u51	I think you are going to support the Dutch by taking responsibility for a rigorous and fair migration policy. That is what the VVD does by taking responsibility and sitting in the government. We spent a very short time together with Mr Wilders trying to tighten up asylum policy and when he had that chance, he ran away from the Catshuis at some point. The VVD will take that responsibility. With the Azmani plan, with the Turkey deal, we have been able to ensure that the influx into the European Union has eventually been contained. We have ensured that the residence permit of criminal aliens who commit a crime can be withdrawn more quickly. That's government. That's taking responsibility. Easy to say here every week that it is all wrong and that the VVD is not behind the Dutch, while the only solution of the PVV is to leave the European Union and withdraw behind the dikes, is a false representation of things, with which the Dutch is not done justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u52	The truth is, you're a member of a huge mob gang. You are a member of a huge mob gang; I see that this can count on approval in the VVD corner. That mob gang keeps getting hundreds of thousands of non-Western immigrants coming to this country, that asylum seekers still get 30,000, 40,000 asylum seekers a year, that they kill, that they rape, that they commit theft by force and that it's being muffled by your VVD, ma'am. Answer that! Scooped under the carpet. You don't have the policy of resolution. The VVD is causing these problems. Each time it is a VVD Minister, Secretary of State or a Minister of Justice who shuffles something under the carpet: if it is not a receipt for a criminal, then it is a murderer or a rapist from an azc. That's what you do. That's the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u53	I still have to see Mr Wilders' first plan that is serious and feasible in order to really contain the influx into the Netherlands and to make our asylum system more rigorous and equitable. Now the PVV benches are calling "brexit," eh, "nexit." Well, we all know what that could have for disastrous consequences for the Netherlands. Just join those who are making constructive proposals, as my colleague Mr Azmani has done on the Turkey deal, but is doing so again to start working on circular migration in future, in order to make agreements with African countries on whether people are already entitled to reception and reception in the region. Those are serious proposals. You will need an EU for that, so it is completely unrealistic what Mr Wilders is proposing here today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u54	Finally. Mr. Wilders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u55	"Circular migration'. I don't think anyone at home understands what's being said here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u56	Yeah, that means...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u57	I think I was talking. "Circular migration," it's really abacadabratal. I'm sure that's from Mr Azmani. It goes to Europe, which has caused this misery. I'll tell you who we're gonna work with. You are going to work with people like Verhofstadt, the Belgian liberals, who only want more Europe, more European Union and more boats. I'll tell you who we're gonna work with. We are going to work with Matteo Salvini, the man in Italy who pushes the boats back, who makes Italy safer and fewer people from Africa. Under your responsibility, you, the VVD, bring the boats here. We're gonna work with the people they push back. You are going to work with the people they bring in, who will only bring more Europe, more asylum, more crime. We are going to work with the heroes of Europe against the monster of the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u58	Mr. Chairman. Connecting to Italy by pushing back boats is, in my opinion, a very simplistic solution to something that really needs to be done. If ultimately 4 billion people are going to live on the African continent, then we need to make arrangements with the African continent so that people stay there so that they don't come here for a better life, but that people...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u59	It's almost impossible to follow by the noise. Mrs Becker has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u60	Stay there, and those African countries will be part of it. We will have to make strict agreements on this. That's what I mean by circular migration. Mr Wilders thinks that this is a difficult word, but that means that people could never stay here permanently, if it were up to the VVD, but that there is an assessment of whether people are entitled to care. This ultimately means that people, when they come here permanently, must be able to earn their place in society. These are all serious proposals, and I understand that Mr Wilders does not want to listen to them, but I say again that I have not yet heard the first serious proposal on his part.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u61	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u62	Please.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u63	I now give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen on behalf of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u64	Thank you, Mr President. The purpose of the Secretary of State was to give full transparency, he wrote in his letter today. However, we are standing here today, precisely because there was not only complete transparency, but also minimum transparency. Serious mistakes have been made and facts obscured about public-order incidents involving asylum seekers. Major incidents have disappeared under the heading "other," information has been muffled away by hiding facts in state. Unfortunately, that is exemplary for the Ministry of Justice and Security, where these mistakes are the closing point in a long list of abuses in this ministry, although other ministries and administrators who have been in trouble have also been in the order of the day in recent years. Mr. Chairman. In the past, we have all too often experienced that rulers often sat against better knowledge in far too long, did not take their political responsibility in time and were ultimately forced by the Chamber to leave. However, this State Secretary has already indicated before this debate that this is most likely his last debate as State Secretary. But he also said that he still wants to answer to the Chamber and give a factual account of how things could have gone so wrong and how it is possible that the Chamber has not been informed. That's what's good for him. The Party for Animals has respect for that, and we would like to give the Secretary of State the opportunity to answer and then take the political responsibility and take the political honour of himself. That's brave. Mr. Chairman. I told you, the many problems at the ministry are structural and have been going on for a very long time. This isn't the first ruler to quit. I call Ministers Opstelten and Van der Steur and Secretary of State Teeven; indeed, they are all VVDs, as has been said before. Structural problems need to be tackled in a structural way. Unfortunately, that is not going to happen with the resignation of this Secretary of State. That is why I would like to know from this Secretary of State whether he acknowledges that the problems in his ministry are structural and that these problems are not resolved by the resignation of this Secretary of State, however justified. I would like to know from him what he thinks should be done to solve these structural problems. The decision to leave may give the Secretary of State the wings and the freedom to speak on them. Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u65	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Voordewind on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Let me begin by expressing appreciation on behalf of my group, the Christian Union Group, for the fact that the Secretary of State is here, and that he wants to answer for what has happened so far. However, the course of events he has outlined today in his letter reveals once again concerns about the political culture of the Department of Justice and Security. How does the Secretary of State itself reflect on this? The shortcomings in the reports have indeed been identified, he writes. That is why I hope he can answer the following questions for us. Was the Secretary of State present at the time when there was talk of the concealing way of categorizing the figures and that this could lead to questions and comments? If not, was he informed of who made those comments? If not, what reason was he given afterwards for not being informed of these comments? What reasons have been given for the fact that those comments have not led to adjustments to the reporting? Who has decided not to change the reporting in line with those comments? Why didn't you ask yourself about the large category "other"? 1,000 incidents; 25% of the total. What I also do not understand about the letter is the conclusion of the Secretary of State that none of this has been done with conscious intent. Why not? What does the Secretary of State base that on? Isn't it a deliberate consideration to not do it, with arguments for and against? Mr. Chairman. Then there are some questions about the content itself. We now know that asylum seekers were suspected of 31 cases of murder or manslaughter. If I put that against the total number of cases of murder and manslaughter in the Netherlands, I am assuming the latest figures that are known, from 2017 onwards I come to almost 20%. Does the Secretary of State know if the suspects in these cases have been prosecuted and convicted? Can he say anything about that? Then what happens to asylum seekers who are specifically in the picture for committing such crimes? Is there enough serious work being done to expel these people from the country? Is it true that only five asylum seekers have been expelled for crimes? Mr. Chairman. What makes me most sad, and also a little angry, is that I get a lot of files from asylum seekers on my desk whose stories have been rejected. In many of these cases, you may still have your questions as to whether sufficient justice has been done to these people, whether their story has been sufficiently argued and whether the balance has been right. These people will be deported. Against this category, the IND and DT&V are very strict and tough. But that seems very different for asylum seekers who really cause problems. They mainly come from safe countries; we have seen it in the reporting. The IND seems to act much less firmly against that. Even if these people are convicted of a crime, in many cases this has no consequences for their stay. I find that indigestible. I'd like it the other way around. Finally, Mr President. I hope that the Secretary of State or, if he resigns, his successor will make a firmer effort to improve transparency, fair information to the Chamber and to step up his action against criminal asylum seekers in order to enable us to continue to receive the real refugees here. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u67	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Hiddema on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Secretary of State, I'd almost say, here we are again, here we are again. So it's about the criminal asylum seeker again. What a fiasco and what a demasque that has resulted. At first we shouldn't know that they could even show criminal neighborhoods, because they're pathetic and they're seeking asylum. So the people don't need to know that. When we were allowed to know a little bit, a little bit of the veil, that the reality was different, we were not allowed to know in how many cases those people were actually prosecuted. You really had to see through to see if they were still being prosecuted as criminals. Now we're ready for people who are suspected of murder and manslaughter to be in that category as well. Now we have to assume that they will be prosecuted. The Secretary of State is still here. In the interests of the country's security, I would like to ask him whether the people included in that category are being prosecuted. 'Cause it's not bon ton to prosecute someone like that either. In any case, the Secretary of State's letter is read as a dagger sting in his own back, I would almost say. Full transparency shall be exercised. That is what the Secretary of State is calling for, as he writes in that letter. So we need to know: I'm not muffling anything away. Basically, I'm not mucking anything away. Then there's gonna be a substantive report and you're gonna think, "Hey, what, can we do this? What happened? Now I'm releasing a simple deduction on this letter. Then you don't get it anymore. "There have been discussions in the department," says the Secretary of State. "Failure to do so has been identified." It can only be that there are officials there who think: not everything is in it; not everything must be known to the people; that must be shortcomings; those serious cases have fallen which the people should not know; the rest is sweet cake and they may swallow, but those serious cases must be removed. That was at that department's point of discussion, nothing else. "There have been discussions and shortcomings have been identified." My question is: was the Secretary of State there? If that is not the case, given the seriousness of what has been cheated on there, you must almost think that there is a conspiracy of silence against your own Secretary of State. If these officials mutually agree that the serious cases, the murders and all the serious cases, should not be included, while the Secretary of State is involved, then I do not think that the Secretary of State would be comfortable in hearing that. Or did he just run away? And then a trade-off was made with the Secretary of State, or by that club of civil servants. "A trade-off has been made," says the letter, "as a result of the categorization that would lead to questions or comments." So they simply say in flat speech: boys, there's gonna be trouble, but we don't put it in; we'll see where the ship is stranded; the State Secretary hasn't heard anything; we'll see where the place is stranded; if it goes wrong, we blame the police. Something like that's been set up there. There's no other way. What was left out there was as ready as a cliff. They decided together that they would hide those serious crimes. So it was decided to refrain from the serious incidents. That is not a mistake, as is said here; that is a deception. That is simply deception of the people. There's nothing else to bake. You're being taken by your own Department of Justice and Security. The Secretary of State is either there or not, but he's screwed. There's nothing else you can make of it. If you're stuck with such a bunch of civil servants who are so behind your back and who, afraid of the people, hide the worst, worst cases, you don't want to be near such a department anymore, I would think. That was decided at the time. The most inscrutable passage is the following, with which the Secretary of State concludes his letter: "There is no indication that this has happened with a conscious intent." And that while he himself has said the whole time that a consideration has been made. There has been categorized and chosen, but that is not for a purpose, not for a conscious purpose. There's someone sitting there with a nightcap. He has no conscious intention and knows exactly what is going on. Another writes this down and the Secretary of State is going to say here: "But that intention has not been conscious." That's inscrutable. It can't be.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u69	Are you going to finish up, Mr. Hiddema?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u70	Yes. The letter is the best proof that it has happened, that it has happened with an intention, that we would not know what is going on and that it is better for the people to not know it. Yeah, and now we're stuck with the chunks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u71	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Öztürk on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u72	Mr. Chairman. Deceiving things and breaking integrity rules, that's the standard procedure of VVD executives. That's their trademark. Every department where VVDs are in charge seems to slip into a kind of Wild West where anything is allowed to hold the gripping claws to the plush. Powerists, the self-appointed crime fighters of the VVD, have made a total mess of the Ministry of Justice and Security. The receipts of Teeven and Van der Steur, manipulate the research results of the WODC and now shuffle hard with numbers; the VVD and the truth are a kind of non-communicating vessels, which mutually exclude each other. Everything is allowed at the VVD. Mr. Chairman. This Secretary of State is politically responsible for a parliamentary mortal sin: the Chamber is incompletely informed. In the report on suspicions of asylum seekers has been reported knowingly about a top ten. As a result, the most serious incidents, incidents with enormous consequences, such as murder and rape, have been hidden under the category "other." Although benevolent officials have warned within his ministry that this is careless, the figures on serious crimes have therefore been muffled away. It is therefore a good thing that this Secretary of State accepts his responsibility and that he, like Teeven and Van der Steur, disappears. Because how can it happen that serious crimes such as rapes have been tucked away in the report? How is that consistent with a secretary of state who says he wants to be transparent? Have the official advice not to report a top ten of crimes come to this Secretary of State? Was he at the mentioned discussions on reporting? If so, why did he continue this way of reporting? If not, why didn't these important signals reach him? Safety has been pierced again. Wouldn't it be wise to agree that there shouldn't be any VVDs on Justice and Security for five years? I think Mr Wilders would like that, too. No VVDs on Justice and Security for five years. Mr. Chairman. There's a downside. Here he comes. Just as dangerous as the VVD's lying and cheating industry is that crime rates about refugees are being abused by the Forum for Democracy and the PVV. A professor said you have little lies, big lies and statistics. It is a new model of earning: inciting hatred and acting in fear. Two weeks ago, in Enschede, a Syrian family was beaten up in his own house by an angry mob of people playing for their own judge. These kinds of terrible events are one-on-one to lead back to the climate of hatred that Wilders and Baudet are sowing on the basis of numbers. People are frightened by the PVV and by the Forum for Democracy for knife pulling strangers in bushes. Only 0.9% of all suspicions of sex crimes concern refugees. By far the majority of perpetrators are much more like Mr Wilders and Mr Baudet than the average refugee. Mr President, I will conclude. So let us draw four lessons from this debate. Criminals must always be punished... Messaging, I hear Mr Wilders now say. Yes, Mr. Wilders. Let us draw four lessons from the debate. Lessons, not knives! Four lessons. Criminals must always be punished for their actions. This Secretary of State has to leave. For five years, no more VVDs at the Department of Justice and Security. And let us fight hard against the climate of hatred that is sown towards refugees by Wilders and Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u73	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Krol on behalf of 50PLUS. Go ahead, Mr. Krol.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u74	Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS commends the Secretary of State for entering into this debate. A great compliment also for De Telegraaf, who raised the bottom stone. As far as I am concerned, this debate is about the appalling figures on the serious crimes of the group of asylum seekers. On 18 April, the House of Representatives held a fierce debate on the shuttle bus for troublesome asylum seekers. Whether that bus got free was asked. You couldn't have done that, could you? With the knowledge of today, you feel, with retroactive force, quite misguided. It's been a long time since it's just about nuisance. We are talking about serious crimes committed on a large scale by asylum seekers. The numbers that De Telegraaf revealed last week are shocking. In 2018, there were 31 cases in the category murder and manslaughter, 79 sex crimes and 51 counts of aggravated assault. According to the police that was known to the Justice Department for weeks, but the cases were written down under the heading "other." Can we get a guarantee that the Chamber will be properly informed from now on? Or is there a need for a parliamentary inquiry? Does that number of 31 include attempted murder and manslaughter? That too, of course, is very disturbing. And has there been any evidence of guilt? If so, were asylum seekers prosecuted and expelled after their sentence? Our question is whether and how these figures end up in official police statistics. We also wonder what happened in 2017. What were the numbers then? And what can we say about the current year 2019? The 50PLUS Group voted against the Marrakesh Pact as one of the few in this House. We fear that the influx of undesirable migrants from safe countries will only increase. 50PLUS wants a turnaround in the EU's migration policy. Now asylum procedures are starting in the country of destination. It doesn't work. If 50PLUS is at stake, migrants can only apply for asylum in their own country via the Dutch embassy or a joint EU ambassador. It is up to a Member State to decide on the admission of migrants. Now we're just gonna wait and see who comes in. We call for an active policy: what working and knowledge migrants are needed? The safelanders who come to the Netherlands as refugees go for their turn. They're getting ahead of real refugees who don't have the means for the trip. 50PLUS wants refugees to be able to apply for asylum only through a UN refugee camp. Permitted refugees are distributed among the EU Member States. It is expected that the flow of refugees from safe countries will eventually dry up with this new approach. The safe folks don't go to a U.N. refugee camp. They don't run from war, violence or persecution. It's undesirable to let everyone in. This only increases the pressure on the housing market and our social security system. Moreover, the acceptance of people who really need it comes under unnecessary pressure, and that is a matter of great concern to us. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u75	Thank you, Mr. Krol. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. The Secretary of State does not need a suspension and wants to respond equally. I call the Secretary of State for Justice and Security.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u76	Thank you, Mr President. Earlier today, I sent your Chamber a letter in which I indicated that I would personally answer here about the establishment of the Incident Review of Police and Public Prosecutor's Office included in the Reporting Stranger Chain. I would like to thank your Chamber for giving me this opportunity. Following the publication of last week's Incident Review, questions arose, first in the media and then rightly in your Chamber about what these figures are. There was justified criticism of the classification of the report, because it included a top ten of the most frequent reports of crimes committed by people who are residents of an asylum-seekers' centre. It is precisely the most serious facts that have ended up in the category of 'other'. That layout was more than unfortunate. The fuss about that was understandable and justified. Because I know that the House of Representatives wants to be proactively, precisely and clearly informed on this subject. I too believe that this is of the utmost importance. Asylum policy benefits from support and acceptance can only be achieved through the grace of openness and transparency. Maximum transparency has always been my goal. The same transparency was precisely the reason for redesigning the Incident Review. Previously, there were only the figures of incidents occurring at asylum seekers' centres, and now there were figures of all incidents, including those of residents of asylum seekers' centres elsewhere, i.e. outside asylum seekers' centres. The number of incidents has already increased enormously for that reason. That was extremely worrying, because it went from 1.090 last year to 4.600 this year. The aim of providing maximum transparency has turned out counter-productive. In the end, the Chamber is not well informed with the chosen way of reporting. In the letter I wrote to your Chamber last Thursday, 16 May, I gave you an initial explanation of the classification used. I have also provided you with an overview of the category 'other'. I have acknowledged that the method chosen for reporting has been unfortunate and not good. I also indicated that that was unintentional. Mr. Chairman. A lot of questions have been asked, but at the core they all amount to a few parts. The first is the creation of the figures. The second is what those figures themselves say and what their interpretation is. Next: what does this mean for the Ministry and its working methods at the Ministry of Justice and Security? In that order, I would like to go into that. At the end, I will tell you what conclusions I myself draw. Mr. Chairman. First, the creation of those figures. After the publication in the media last Thursday, I naturally instructed my staff to reconstruct the process of creating the Incident Overview. The reconstruction focused, for me at least, on the question of whether the objections that were rightly raised afterwards against the method of reporting had already been identified internally. In that reconstruction I got late last night, I saw the answer. The answer to that question is affirmative. That's why I'm standing before you today. At various times, employees have found out aloud that classification of serious facts in a category "other" would be difficult and could lead to confusion and legitimate questions. Mr. Chairman. What is crucial to me is that I found that in the discussions on the preparation of the report it was found at some point that the figures on three parts, sex cases, drug and alcohol abuse and traffic offences, which were previously provided to the Second Chamber, would end up in the category of 'other' and would therefore no longer be comprehensible to the Second Chamber for that reason. I have also noted that it has already been discussed, in particular that the House of Representatives attaches great importance to understanding these crimes. Mr. Chairman. I myself personally took note of that discussion last night, at the end of the evening. At the same time, that does not matter at all. Because even if I hadn't personally taken notice of it, it did happen under my administrative responsibility. I'm responsible for that, and I'll take that responsibility. We have also been asked what has happened and how this overview has finally been drawn up. I can only conclude that I have also written to your Chamber that I have seen no signs that this classification has been deliberately chosen or maintained. There's been a lot of discussion. There has been discussion of the three categories previously provided to the Chamber. Shouldn't they at least still be provided? But there has also been discussion about what this means for the other incidents that find their place in the category "other." Then there was a discussion about exactly what these incidents mean. What does a number like that mean? I'm gonna get back to you on that statement later. Somewhere in that process it was found that due to these uncertainties there was noise in the figures and that it was difficult or perhaps impossible at that time to break them out clearly. It was then concluded that the Incident Review should be made, as finally provided to your Chamber. Of course, I should have asked for it at least two moments further. The first time was when that report, that presentation, was presented to me. I then agreed, but of course I should have asked what exactly fell into that category of 'other'. In addition, I do not want to detract from the fact that all the incidents that were reported in the top ten gave me a great deal of concern, because every incident is too much. As members of your Chamber also said, there may be a victim behind every incident. That's on top of me. Every incident is too much. We have to prevent it. This report was then chosen. I've agreed to that. So I could have asked at the time. The second thing I could and should have done was to check whether this was the only consideration, after last Thursday's rightful commotion and I informed you that this was unintentionally and exclusively the result of the chosen report in a top ten. This form of reporting is not unusual and is also used in many other reports. But, of course, I should have asked more about whether that really was the only consideration at the time. As I have just said, I noticed last night that this was indeed the subject of discussion. Mr. Chairman. As I said just now, not only was it ultimately an incorrect, wrong balance, but also played a role in the discussion that the figures themselves raised a world of questions. Many Members of your Chamber have referred to the example of the 31 reports on murder and manslaughter. Can you draw the conclusion that murder and manslaughter have occurred 31 times? Mr. Chairman. The Public Prosecutor's Office is still investigating the figures; that's what's still going on. So it's not a definitive explanation. But preliminary investigation by the police into these incidents shows that in the case of the 31 recorded manslaughter or murder incidents, it is actually 25 unique events, of which 2 registrations involved process information, a dismissal and a DNA sample. One incident, at a later point, is classified as simple assault. Almost all of these incidents involve attempted manslaughter or murder. In one case, it is a complete crime, in which a deadly victim was to be regretted. Right now, while I'm standing in front of you, the police and the D.A. are still working on a further analysis. This takes time, because the registrations in question need to be reviewed manually. In order to avoid further errors due to speed, I would like to give the police and the Public Prosecutor time to sort this out properly. Your Room will be informed about this at a later date. I have highlighted the example of these 31 reports because it has so much impression and impact, but at the same time as an illustration of what is hidden behind them, and we know that now. In all of the 4,600 reports contained in the report, it concerns all incident records with the police. To get the full picture, you're gonna have to have the whole world behind it. I have commissioned this in the last few days, because, as I said, there must be maximum transparency. This also means something for the following reports, which should therefore provide the full picture. There was also a request in the Chamber: if you look further at the group, are these, for example, safelanders? I would also like to take care of this. Yes, reports are being made on, for example, the share of safe people in the asylum chain. But just this incident report is based on police figures that are not ranked by origin. So I simply cannot answer that question when it comes to this report. I refer to the debate that I held with your Chamber a month ago, for there is, of course, cause for concern and concern in this area. They also asked: what happens next? That's exactly why we need the information from the state's attorney's office. That's about whether or not to prosecute people. In the end, this may or may not lead to the imposition of penalties. That is exactly what I want to be in. I refer to what I have just said: it is still being worked on, so the interpretation is still in progress. Only in the event of an irrevocable penalty can you possibly have a ground for refusing or withdrawing a residence permit. Not before, that's how it's arranged here. I am the first to admit that there is quite a gap in the system there for the reason that some countries do not take back their nationals and that in some cases, even if they have been convicted, people still have protection under Article 3 of the ECHR and are therefore not deportable. I refer to many of the debates I have had with your Chamber on this matter. I've mentioned a few times that the numbers are from the police. So there is no blame on the police, as someone in the Chamber raised. The police, as has been shown to me in recent days, have provided the complete overview, as requested by the Ministry, and thus all incidents under the heading "other'. Then, agreements were made on and on, where it was agreed that, in the case of questions about this reporting, they would be answered from the department where they go about all the figures we provided in the past, and by the police in respect of the figures provided by the police. In other words, the agreement was that the police would give a more detailed explanation of this so that there would be questions about it. At the same time, that did not go well, because that immediately led to the picture if the police and the ministry themselves were against each other. That agreement was not made, on the contrary, but through miscommunication it was unintentionally the result of this effect. Mr. Chairman. What was perhaps the most important issue is what this says about the Department of Justice and Security, about the change of course that has been put in place to change the Ministry and to break culture. Anyone who says "it's in the water on the department, it's always happening there," I'd like to point out my personal experiences there in the last year and a half. Personally, I have not noticed any of this, and therefore I certainly do not think it would be structural. On the contrary, we are working conscientiously. Nor have I come across, not even in this case, as I have just explained to you, that there has been deliberate, so to conceal, this categorization. I have never ordered myself to deliberately add or conceal figures. On the contrary, my motto has always been: acceptance can only be achieved through maximum transparency and maximum openness. So I have not found that there has been any attempt to deliberately conceal that. On the contrary. I can do better than that. That's what I'm learning from this case. What measures must therefore be taken to prevent this from happening? What I have set myself in motion in this area over the last few days is the commitment I made to the Chamber last Thursday to provide all the figures in future. And I have said that there is still work to be done to clarify this in order to have a full picture in the future. I have also indicated that my motto of maximum openness and transparency should be the first and guiding motto of the asylum chain, not only in these figures, but also in the Chamber. So there has been no deliberate cover-up either. Absolutely not, on the contrary, because then someone should have given the order, or then they should have decided on it by mutual agreement. That has not happened, as I have seen from the facts up to now. On the contrary. At the same time, the image that has emerged is of course more than unhappy. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. The fact is... Well, I'd like to answer some interruptions first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u77	I do have a question just for that conclusion. Because if the officials find that the worst crimes are not mentioned and there is a presentation of "there is some theft, there is some destruction and there is some pickpocketing," where is the antenna of those people to make sure that that is told to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u78	I have noted that this antenna was present at the beginning of the process, and precisely the recognition that this is data that the Chamber has received in the past and probably would like to receive now. Somewhere in the process after that, that was lost. I have given you the reason, namely the fact that there has been a lot of discussion about this, just to see what these figures meant and whether it would be useful to provide these figures in this way. In addition, the three categories reported to the Chamber in the past were not all the highest in the other category. So that would lead to a discussion: why highlight these three and not others? And I said earlier that, of course, that was not the right balance. On the contrary, because then the answer could and should have been: if this leads to this kind of discussion, then perhaps we should give all the figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u79	I hate to break it to you, but it's still a struggle for me. In the end, therefore, we get the picture of about 80 thefts and vandalism cases. And then there's an official who sees his desk: and 79 cases where there's a relationship with murder and manslaughter. Then I find it strange that these people do not say that this cannot go to the Chamber, and that there are leaders who will accept it. I'd like to ask the Secretary of State. Maybe it'll come later when the D.A. gets the numbers. Which makes it impossible for anyone in that ministry to say, "This can't go away," because now we have an image of 80 thefts, and we don't tell anything about 79 murders. There may not be, but we still don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u80	Just for the record, murder and manslaughter were 31. There were other categories that were at the top, for example insult. And it's been exactly this discussion. It has also been: if the last of the top ten finishes at 80, but the first of the category "other" also at 80, then fear was that that again raises questions as to why one 80 is more important than the other. I tell you from my responsibility that it should not have happened this way, because then, of course, all the figures should have been placed. But I'm actually reflecting what the discussion has been.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u81	First of all, thanks to the Secretary of State for the nuance he brings to the debate, because I think he has been missing from time to time. I think it's very good that he explains what the world is behind the numbers. But I do have a question about that. The Secretary of State says, "I don't think it was conscious." But "consciously" means you've thought about something. And there has been thought; we know that from the answers of the Secretary of State and from the letter. Then how is it that a certain turn is chosen? Because I see the world and the complexity behind the figures, but the Secretary of State can explain them here as well. Why didn't they just choose to explain that complexity in the report?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u82	Let me say that that should have happened, of course. Maybe that would've taken more time. Then the report would have been a little longer. That's a conclusion I've already drawn myself. This is not the report as I wanted it to be and as it was meant to be, but at the same time it is the report that was produced under my responsibility and ultimately with my approval. And this is exactly what makes the insight still not complete. Even if you were to provide all the figures, but those figures have not been given any further, you do not know very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u83	I agree with the Secretary of State. But a little more precise. For even with the figures that have been shared with the Chamber, I am strongly in favour of the same nuance and complexity. For 2,030 shoplifting? Well, I dare say that these are not all completed matters, but that there are double counts in them. Apparently, this did not lead to the conclusion that they should not be brought to the Chamber. So I think there is still a question over the market: how is it that a certain category, which at least contains the serious issues, has not been reported, and a certain category has? And I still don't have the answer to that, and with that I don't have the confidence that the leak in the ministry is upstairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u84	Let me tell you that a lot of lessons have been learned from this case too. What Mr Groothuizen says speaks for itself. I just indicated that I immediately highlighted one category: murder and manslaughter. Moreover, a number of other categories in the category "other" will also have to be explained, but the question is answered. If you know in this one category which world is hiding behind it, it will apply to all categories. In any case, a police record does not yet say anything about the detection, prosecution and possible trial of people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u85	I think I agree with the substance of the matter with the Secretary of State, but I still feel that the question of why a certain turn has now been taken, remains above the market. That is a bit of the struggle that Mrs Van Toorenburg has in my opinion and which does not give much confidence to the future of this department.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u86	I have said in my contribution that it has never occurred to me before that in such a short time in one ministry so many rulers were in such great political difficulties. Does the Secretary of State agree with me? And if he agrees with me, what conclusion does he draw?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u87	I find it a little difficult to draw a big conclusion from that right away, because every case stands on its own. I can only speak about my own situation and at the end of the debate I will tell you what conclusion I draw. If Mr Van Ojik were to see a pattern, I myself have found over the last year and a half that, as I have just said, I have not found that there is an atmosphere or culture that is deliberately taken together or disguised, quite the contrary. I very much regret that this has happened.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u88	Of course, I listen very carefully to what the Secretary of State says about his own experience, but he will still, like all of us, think about what has happened to his predecessors and the extent to which the problems that the predecessors have encountered in his ministry have or have not been resolved by processes of change that have been initiated. Then the conclusion cannot be different from that that process of change seems to be in its infancy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u89	You know, if there were really orders to put things together or if there had been deliberate weighing to put things together because some things would be less insightful, then Mr Van Ojik would be right, but that is not the case. First of all, I have always insisted that this new report should be made open and transparent. I never ordered you to do this, on the contrary. If I had ever been asked, I would have always decided on maximum openness and transparency. I note that it is the outcome of the whole work process to come to this report, but it does not matter how it all went and who and what and what, because in the end I have full responsibility for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u90	It is to the credit of the Secretary of State that he takes full responsibility. It's also to his credit that he's sticking up for his ministry. But where he and this Chamber have always stressed the need for transparency, the Secretary of State has just discussed it again, it is really unthinkable that this kind of essential data should not be shared with the Chamber, from a department, from a ministry, where rulers have been in trouble so often before.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u91	I would still like an assessment and assessment from the Secretary of State. When he saw the reports, the category of 1,000 and undoubtedly the other categories that were included, the top ten, he himself was not surprised that 1 out of 25 of the cases were not included, but fell under the category "other" of that total debt ratio how many were there? Okay, okay, okay, Wasn't he surprised to know exactly what fell under the 1,000?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u92	I have just indicated that I could and should have asked what was covered by that category of 'other'. At the same time, I will also give you my other feeling. I saw that table. In every case that's already in that top ten, sometimes you're terrified. So the overall picture was already an image of a lot of incidents: 4,600. This is also compared to the total population of a high number. So I've been frightened enough for the rest of the table as well. But I should have added one question to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u93	We finally had the table with all the incidents. Of course it would have been better if we had just had these in the report, because it was only one A4's. But then the Secretary of State must have noticed that the serious incidents were not in the top ten. The serious incidents were under that heading "other'. I now understand from the Secretary of State that he did not ask for it, but does he not think that this is a serious error of assessment on the part of his officials?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u94	It goes without saying that I would have preferred to have had an insight into this in good time. Nevertheless, I cannot reverse that clock.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u95	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u96	Mr. Chairman. On the main issues raised by the Chamber, I gave you my answers. I have indicated in particular how this report has been produced. The fact is that those reports called in questions. That shouldn't have happened already, because my goal was to be completely transparent. When that turned out on Thursday, I reported that it was unintentional and only the result of presenting a top ten. Today, when I reconstructed this report, I found that it was acknowledged that this method of reporting did not allow this data to go away. So the statement that it was only a result of the chosen presentation form is not correct, because it was mentioned explicitly earlier in the process. I thus also misinformed the Chamber last Thursday after the commotion. The fact that this method of reporting resulted in the disappearance of data took place under my administrative responsibility. Not only am I responsible for this in a state-law sense, but I am also responsible for it. Not only because from the outset my only goal was to provide that openness and transparency, but in particular because this is about public order and all data on incidents. Because that is necessary. This is the most important, the biggest problem in my portfolio. A problem that occurs week in, week out and where I have also taken measures. But if I take action, at least the facts below must be completely open, transparent and transparent. Only in this way can we work towards the necessary support for the reception of genuine refugees. Since all of this affects the confidence between your Chamber and myself and I also attach great importance to the fact that there can be no doubt whatsoever on this point, precisely because of the seriousness of the problem with oppressors, I will ask His Majesty the King to resign me. I would like to thank the Chamber for the confidence it has placed in me over the past period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u97	I thank the Secretary of State for his answers and I very much appreciate that he has been here and has been answerable to the Chamber. It's a painful moment. Thank you for being here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-21-tweedekamer-31.u98	For the moment, I would actually like to propose that the sitting be closed.
