ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u1	The next item is the continuation of the examination of the legislative proposal35084, amendment of some laws and provision for the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union, i.e. the Brexit Collecting Act. I have already welcomed the Minister for Foreign Affairs this morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u2	I give the floor to Mr Schaap.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about a legislative proposal to respond to one of the most absurd developments that Europe has experienced in recent times. In the United Kingdom and beyond, there seems to be no more talk than the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union. In the meantime, the country has become divided to the bone and is no longer able to make any meaningful contribution to this process. It is not yet the beginning of a plan on which the European Union could respond. Rather, the debate there has become destructively politicised. It is quite conceivable that the crunch will end in something that is widely feared, namely a departure without agreement. The consequences can hardly be overestimated. The United Kingdom is becoming more and more disintegrated internally. In fact, the only good news is that the other 27 Member States have so far acted as one block; perhaps an expression of increased integration. Nevertheless, there is a risk of chaos which is not confined to the United Kingdom alone. However prepared the European Union and the individual Member States, there is a black hole, rightly referred to by the government as 'unknown unknowns'. The need for the Netherlands to prepare itself for this is self-evident. In this perspective, the VVD Group is grateful to the government for having incorporated the threat into legislation, with, of course, chapter X as an important part. Mr. Chairman. I would like to begin with a few general comments on the situation that has arisen and move from there to comments on this legislative proposal. The legislative proposal as such is not under discussion, but I would like to have an exchange of views with the Minister on constitutional implications. This type of law does not often come along, which, by the way, should not be. Mr. Chairman. The Brexit decision and the resulting disaster are a direct consequence of an instrument that threatens the values of democracy, namely the referendum. It was also a referendum on an issue which is incredibly complicated in terms of decision-making and implementation and cannot be achieved without a very broad public support. Such an issue cannot be answered with a simple yes or no. What has resulted from this referendum is a dictatorship of a diffuse majority, and actually even a minimal majority. And what results from such a statement on complicated issues is in extreme extreme in the United Kingdom: a population divided to the bone and a parliament unable to cope with the disruption. The split also runs through the political camps. It is a chaos that has also become an export product. The seemingly simple outcome, exit from the European Union, is now divided into many variants. The leave camp was already divided immediately; the same is true in the meantime for the remain camp. It's all messed up and no one has any idea where they're going with this. This kind of democracy kills itself. The consequences of this decision-making are not limited to the United Kingdom, but are cross-border. And what do the Brexiters gain from this now? In fact, I have heard no justification other than today's well-sounding'reclaiming our sovereignty'. This without defining what sovereignty really is and where it is invested. Should this mean the national sovereignty of the United Kingdom, based in the monopoly of legislation, then the process becomes absurd. People think they need to regain something that has never been given out of their hands. After all, the European Union is a treaty community of sovereign states. The signatories have not given any sovereignty to Brussels. You may want more or less treaty agreements within the European Union, and more or less integration, but there is no transfer of sovereignty. The European Union is not a state, nor is it a federal state. Anyone who believes that sovereignty means that no treaties should be entered into with others at all is going to ruin loneliness and helplessness. It would please the Brexiteers, and indeed all those on the continent who admire such an endeavor and would like to imitate it with their own exit, to follow a few simple lessons of the rule of law and state law. That should be enough to wake up from the dream of sovereignty. Mr. Chairman. There is still something that stands out in the process that has been going on so far, something that is not separate from the confusion that has been mentioned in the United Kingdom and must be considered. A number of members of this Chamber have recently visited the European Union and have had talks about the Union's woe. Of course, the Brexit was also included in that. It has become clear to us that the input to the deal that Prime Minister May de Commons was able to present has been brought in and developed by EU negotiators. As one of the parties directly concerned pointed out, no shredded paper on their part. This also makes it clear how the confusion could have struck there, but also what awaits us. We do not know what we really want, there is a lack of expertise and even interest in giving substance to it, and there is no knowledge of how to deal with the consequences. A leap into the darkness of those who are only able to close their eyes and wait for the landing to unfold. Mr. Chairman. I would just like to point out this because continental cynics about the European Union often get little further than vague views, empty words and a lack of awareness of how to give hands and feet to the nationalist utopia. The incompetence within the United Kingdom will still cause us considerable problems. The European Union and its Member States may have prepared themselves as well as possible for what is to come, but on the other side there is not only a lack of preparation, but also of knowledge to respond to the situation that has arisen. That is why we must be prepared for everything. Mr. Chairman. This consideration brings me to this legislative proposal, in particular the authorisation provisions in Article X. These should enable the government to make provision for a responsible course of the UK's departure from the European Union. In doing so, a lower regime may derogate from higher, albeit under strict conditions, to be summed up under the term "emergency." These are unacceptable situations or imminent irreversible developments. There is therefore a need and urgency to respond to this. It is quite clear to the VVD Group that chaotic conditions may occur, not only because of unforeseen situations on our side of the border, but also because of the lack of preparation on the other side. Authorisation of regulatory powers may therefore be necessary. From this risk point of view, the VVD Group can go along with an authorisation decision. However, this should not be considered lightly. There is an attack on the trias politician in a context other than that of a state of emergency. For this purpose, the Co-ordination Act has been established in exceptional circumstances. Such a state of emergency will not be just a matter of exit. Mr. Chairman. The principle of separation of powers must be cherished. I am only saying this because sometimes I feel that in the parliamentary process sometimes the responsibility for the legislative task seems to be handled a little lightly. A law is not a legally translated policy programme, but a legally coherent regime that needs to be heavily tested for feasibility and enforcement. In addition, Parliament, the legislative power, cannot always fail to play a bit of executive power. This is in view of the growing number of motions and parliamentary questions on issues that actually concern the executive. I would just like to say that the distinction between legislative and executive powers should not fade. I am also saying this because this legislative proposal adds a generically defined delegation of regulatory power to the executive. However necessary in this case, it is a border crossing. Mr. Chairman. The VVD Group agrees with the government that situations may arise that require rapid intervention. But I really hope that the government and Parliament are aware that such an open authorisation must remain highly exceptional.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u4	I have a question for Mr Schaap about the wording he just used: generically defined delegation. Those were your words? Is that the same as a blank delegation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u5	Yes, I do. It is an open-ended authorisation to intervene with regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u6	Does the Group of the Party of European Socialists agree with the SP Group that this is not possible in principle?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u7	That is indeed something for which you can use the words "in principle" or "in principle." But one of the nice sides of a principle, of a principle, is that you have to start with it, but can't always end with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u8	In this case, we won't end up with it. Mr Schaap argues that it is very undesirable, that it should not be allowed and that it should not be, but in this case, considering everything, yes. But it must remain with this exception.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u9	I cannot say that, because there may be similar circumstances in which you need to take this emergency action again. I would also like to point out that, once this has been used, the government has to justify itself to the Parliament in a manner that is consistent. The last word is again for Parliament. In short, here is a recall option that is sometimes absent in other laws. We have already discussed this in the debate this morning. In this respect, therefore, the drama here is not as great as is sometimes suggested.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u10	Finally, Mr Van Apeldoorn, at this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u11	In any case, I am pleased to note that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is of the opinion that this should not be treated lightly. That point has been raised again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u12	We will get together one more time; this will end well. I have just given an account, and I want to continue with that. I hope that the Minister will go into this state-of-the-art consideration in order to get the feeling that we are right about this. It is about sharing the conviction that this law and its use should be limited to exceptional situations. So my cry is that this practice should not be used, as if it were part of it. I would also like to hear from the Minister that, in the case of application, he will do all he can to give Parliament the last word if there really is to be an AMvB or a ministerial arrangement. This is done by lifting the emergency condition by the end of the day. This brings me to a point which has already been communicated in writing and which has also been raised this morning. Suppose the Minister settles a particular situation and it turns out that Parliament does not agree with it afterwards and does not want to incorporate it into legislation, then what happens in the current situation? How are we dealing with the party that depended on this scheme and adapted to it? Is there then a right which Parliament is taking away again? What consequences could this have, for example in the sense of a damage story? Will the Minister comment on this and clarify it? Then one last question. It is now clear that Parliament and government of the United Kingdom have requested or are going to request the European Union to postpone the exit decision. If the European Union were to agree to this, this could mean continuing membership of the United Kingdom and thus postponing the crash that is now foreseen. On the other hand, this also leads to increasing uncertainty about what is going to happen and any disruption associated with it. My question is this: does a possible delay mean that this bill will have to be postponed and that, for example, publication in the Official Journal will be suspended? What is the Minister's view on this? The VVD Group would like to clarify this, because the entry into force is part of the law. The VVD Group awaits the Minister's reply with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u13	Thank you, Mr. Sheep. I give the floor to Mr Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u14	Thank you, Mr President. A complex separation between a member of the EU and the EU, who raises questions about the right of self-determination of Member States: we are discussing this today in the context of the Brexit Collection Act. You can check out at any time, but you can never really leave the ever closer union, at least not without problems. In fact, that situation is complicated enough, but the Cabinet adds an additional complication, a law that gives the Cabinet unforeseen powers in unforeseen circumstances. This cannot be combined with parliamentary democracy unless you agree to it within the coalition, because by majority, no matter how tight it is, you can make any decision. The question is whether we can have an open debate on this today. I am optimistic about this for the time being, because serious questions have also arisen within the coalition about the legitimacy of this law, resulting in a number of amendments on the other side. When this bill came to Parliament, there was a fear that the Chamber might be silenced by it and that it would be able to call that fate upon itself with this law. "Collection Law Brexit" sounds innocent. It is a special emergency law, which the Netherlands must deal with when it comes to exiting the United Kingdom from the EU. The majority of the provisions of this collective law are certainly reasonable. For example, it is arranged that British driving licences remain valid here and that there will be no problems with Dutch health insurance in the UK. That is a good thing. We like to support that part of the law, but one article in the law is far from innocent. That's what legal scholars like Wim Voermans think. The now infamous article X of the collective law gives individual ministers the right to take measures after the United Kingdom's retirement that go against the Dutch legislation without the need for permission from the Second and First Chambers and without the need for advice from the Council of State. The normal constitutional route to change a law is therefore completely discarded in order to avoid unacceptable consequences. The question is whether the unacceptable consequences of unmentioned calamities in a state-law sense outweigh the unacceptable consequences of the decommissioning of an important part of parliamentary control. The question that should really be answered is what has not yet happened in the preparation of this debate. These unacceptable consequences are nowhere specified in the law itself and only very briefly in the explanatory statement. At the moment when a problem arises, it is up to the Minister to determine whether any consequence of the Brexit is unacceptable in order to remove parliamentary control in that case. A 'wild card to do and leave what the minister in question thinks is right' my colleague Van Raan called it across the street. For my group, it sounds like the possibility of abuse of the situation. Although we are confident, we believe that this is going too far for the Minister to clarify what risks he is actually afraid of. Wim Voermans and Roel de Lange, professors of state law, have, as I said, criticized article X of the law in particular. According to Voermans, giving such far-reaching powers is constitutional and the bill does not contain any restriction on the Minister's ability to act in a regulatory manner. De Lange is also clear: Article X must be removed from the collection law. The principle of proportionality is violated by this law. "It is wise that the Netherlands prepares for eventualities that the Brexit can bring with it," says Professor Voermans, "but the reasoning that need and urgency would break laws, I cannot go along with that. Our Constitution cannot go along with that. Those rules are precisely designed to ensure that, even if there is a need and urgency, we still act according to the rules." You can do that very quickly. May I remind you of the bill Naked short selling (31724)? This was submitted on 1 October 2008. This meeting was held here in the Upper House on 30 September 2008. In the Lower House it was accepted on 2 October 2008 and in the Upper House on 7 October 2008. The law was published in the Official Journal on 10 October. That's how fast it can be. You don't need an emergency bill for that. This can be done within the current system. Professor De Lange, professor of state law at Erasmus University Rotterdam, also says that the emergency law goes far too far. It is very unusual and very undesirable to give far-reaching powers to the government. According to both professors, the cabinet already has the opportunity to declare a state of emergency in the event of an emergency. Moreover, if the cabinet cannot take immediate action itself, the NVWA, for example, can do so. Mr Van Apeldoorn already asked about this. I too am very curious to see what the Minister thinks about this: are there not enough other instruments to intervene in situations that require rapid intervention? Rem Korteweg, researcher at Institute Clingendael, also warns that the emergency law could put British supporters of a hard Brexit in the cards. "In the UK, this is seen as a way to remove the sharp edges of a no-deal," he says. "The emergency law softens the consequences of a hard Brexit for the Netherlands, but also for the British." The Brexit Collection Act gives individual trade ministers carte blanche. Does Minister Schouten of Agriculture consider it unacceptable that a no-deal should stop the transport of live animals from the United Kingdom to the Netherlands? In that case, it may decide that animals may enter the Netherlands without the now mandatory physical control and welfare control, with disastrous consequences for animal welfare. In the Lower House, the Minister stated that the Netherlands exports very few animals to the United Kingdom. That is actually a painful example of the blind spot the cabinet has for the bio-industry. In 2017, 13,720 cattle, 2,574 horses, 75 pigs, 429 sheep and more than 10 million chicks were involved. That's too many animals to be derogatory about it. The fact that these animals are only a limited part of the Dutch livestock does not alter that. Mr. Chairman. During the written examination of this bill, the Minister made it clear that Article X is also intended to prevent, where necessary, animal suffering, but that is of course a special tragedy. The Minister uses the prevention of animal suffering as an alibi to justify his Brexit legislation, while the opposite might be the case. That seems to be wanted; that seems to be creating "you have to choose between two evils." The NRC commented in its main editorial comment on "an alibi for an administrative coup d'état." Those were great words, but also the Council of State and several state-law scholars were, as I said earlier, extremely critical of Article X. It is not the case that Parliament is completely out of play, but it is asked to sign with the Roman cross. The Council of State states that in the Dutch state system the primacy of the legislator is leading the legislative process. This is based on the principle that a lower scheme, such as a ministerial scheme, does not derogate from higher regulation, except in exceptional situations. In such cases, derogations from the law should, in principle, be limited to general administrative measures. The need to limit the infringement of the legislator's primacy makes the authorisation to deviate from the law in a formal sense by ministerial regulation very undesirable. However, there are situations in which urgent action is needed, which should allow derogations from the law even in the case of ministerial regulations. The partly unpredictable effects of the Brexit may necessitate acute intervention. For this reason, the Council of State states in its recent opinion that it should be possible to derogate from the law by ministerial regulation. But for the time being, it is unclear what kind of unpredictable consequences could be intended. The Council of State states that it is very important that, as soon as possible after the entry into force of such a ministerial arrangement, a legislative proposal for the adoption of that arrangement is sent to the House of Representatives. In the event of a withdrawal from the United Kingdom without an agreement on its terms, it is possible to prepare for that and to some extent provide for the arrangements to be applied, the Council of State states. In this sense, there is therefore no reason to rush into adopting this far-reaching proposal. However, the size and complexity of the Brexit mean that it cannot be ruled out that acute action is needed in a given area at a late or later stage. The legislator is also dependent on measures that are still being taken at EU level. European legislation is still partly in preparation at European institutions. This may therefore require the rapid adaptation of national legislation, says the Council of State. Even if a withdrawal agreement is reached, situations may arise in which national regulations need to be adapted as a matter of urgency at some point. This is because the final content of the withdrawal agreement may only be known at a very late stage. Thus, both in a situation without a withdrawal agreement and in a situation with a withdrawal agreement, the national legislator may be forced to adapt national legislation in the very short term. This does not mean, however, that there are no possibilities for swift action other than a ministerial arrangement or a general administrative measure outside the agreed state rules. In particular, the new political reality that will emerge after tomorrow makes it difficult to make it possible to rule by decree as a matter of urgency. It removes the right of amendment from the Lower House, the Council of State gives no more advice and also the Council of Ministers cannot correct. The danger that the Minister will be able to draw power towards him remains real, even with the amendments made by the House of Representatives by amendment. The Party for Animals believes that Article X does not belong in this law. The assessment is too much in the hands of any trade minister. I'd like a response to that. In our opinion, we find ourselves in a contradiction and a catch 22. In order to avoid unforeseen and unacceptable consequences, this law creates unforeseen and unacceptable problems for parliamentary democracy. Members of parliament have been working with the best of intentions, and I am convinced that they have been working on a string-rope solution to weaken the infamous article X. But let there be no misunderstanding: Minister Blok is responsible for this law. Article X must be removed as far as my group is concerned. I would like to hear what possibilities the Minister sees for this. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. The Animal Party does not agree with the shock doctrine the Minister uses as a threat to remove essential values of parliamentary control. If the Minister considers it necessary to obtain our support for this emergency law, he must come up with better arguments than have been used so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u15	Would you stand still, Mr. Koffeman? Mr. Schaap is coming for an interruption. Go ahead, Mr. Sheep.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u16	I was waiting for a moment to see how the speech would end, but at the beginning I heard Mr Koffeman say that there is already a legal possibility to intervene in emergency situations, namely in declaring a state of emergency. Do you think that if, for example, a lorry carrying live cattle is lost and there is a threat of calamity, the Minister should declare a state of emergency?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u17	No. Then Mr Schaap did not listen carefully. I said that in that case the NVWA should intervene. I asked the Minister if he could indicate what the objection would be to allow the NVWA to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u18	Thank you, Mr. Coffeeman. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case. I'll take a look at the minister how much time he thinks he needs. Twenty minutes? Okay, then I'll suspend the meeting until 2:50 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u19	The next item is the debate on the progress of the examination of the legislative proposal 35084, the amendment of some laws and the provision of provisions relating to the withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the European Union, i.e. the Brexit Collecting Act. I give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Allow me to begin with a word of thanks for the fact that we can discuss the law here today. The date of 29 March is approaching. It is pleasant that we can have an extensive debate today at a time when, should your Chamber adopt the law, it is also possible to ensure careful implementation before 29 March. I say all this to the background of the fact that I would have preferred not to be here. That was true, I believe, for almost all the speakers, because we would rather not have seen the Brexit take place. At the same time, we are all democrats and respect the outcome of the democratic process in the United Kingdom. That means we need to prepare for that Brexit. It is preferable to proceed along the path of the withdrawal agreement, which has been negotiated on the basis of more than two years of extensive negotiations between the United Kingdom and the European Union. But we must also be prepared for the undesirable but still possible situation of a no-dealbrexit, where the United Kingdom would be able to leave the European Union without regulation on 29 March. When taking all the preparatory measures, I always have the great practical problems that citizens and entrepreneurs can have to deal with, whether they are close contacts with entrepreneurs or citizens, both the Dutch in the UK and the British who are here, or hospitals and companies or executives, who have to think in detail what scenarios a Brexit brings with them. I have spoken extensively with Dutch people in the United Kingdom. That's over 100,000. I did not speak to them all, but I did speak to a representative, who made it very clear to me what a great deal of concern it gives them. You can have all kinds of complex situations. For example, your children could have been in school in the UK and then went to study in Europe. They wonder whether they will be able to demonstrate sufficiently that they were resident in the United Kingdom for the Brexit. I have spoken to entrepreneurs who are largely dependent on exports to the United Kingdom. The famous tomato and cucumber sandwiches across the street are covered with Dutch tomatoes and cucumbers. I've spoken to fishermen who have great concerns. Behind such an abstract geopolitical issue as the Brexit are very ordinary people with very real concerns. That is also the motivation for the cabinet and for all those people in Customs, Food and War Authority and companies, i.e. within and outside the government, who are involved in doing our utmost to ensure that we can survive this situation that we did not wish for, but which we may have, as well as possible. In this context, the cabinet has sent you the present bill. In reply to the questions, I would first like to address in detail the questions that have been asked logically about the constitutional aspects and how this relates to the way in which we set up our democracy. I shall then deal with the other questions put by the questioner. First of all, the questions that directly touch on how we set up our democracy. The overarching question asked by Mr Van Apeldoorn, as well as others, is: is Article X specifically setting aside parliamentary democracy? The answer to that is a definite no. It is precisely the special situation of the Brexit, a completely unique political situation, but also a change in the system, because a lot of legislation and regulations suddenly no longer apply to relations between Europe, and with it also the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom. It is a special political situation and at the same time a system change. That's very far-reaching. This means that the government and all those involved can be expected to think as well as possible about what can happen, but at the same time to take into account unforeseen circumstances. The Netherlands is not unique in that. We also see other countries making similar legislation, such as the United Kingdom itself, with a much longer power of authorisation. France has done the same. Other countries are also working on this. I am also trying to move into the situation that the government would not have presented such a proposal; that we had only come up with a list of AMvBs and legislative changes in those areas that we can foresee, up to and including the very technical subject of the topography of semiconductors. Then I am sure that many of you, perhaps all of you, would quite rightly ask the question: are you sure that this list is complete and if the no-dealbrexit is a fact and there really is serious suffering in humans or animals, what will the government do if it did not foresee it? That would be an equally legitimate question. That is why the government believes it is inevitable to present this now, in a way that is democratically guaranteed, as it should be. I would like to underline once again what we have also raised in detail in the explanatory statement and in the debate, both in the Lower House and in writing with your Chamber. Where this is possible, existing legislation will always be applied, and where this is not possible for a normal AMvB procedure, with veils. Only if there really is a very urgent emergency situation, and I will go into Mr Van Apeldoorn's question in a moment to support it again, and if there is no other way to do so, will a ministerial arrangement be put in place, with direct notification to both Chambers and the possibility to reverse it. Is this an open door to the uncontrolled exercise of power by the government, Mr Van Apeldoorn asked. I can't imagine that in any way. The legal treatment and the explanation of the law clearly indicate that the balancing framework is being followed, as I have just outlined, that it should relate to the Brexit and that there is therefore no possibility of uncontrolled exercise of power, to use that wording for a moment. It concerns the already undesirable situation of a no-dealbrexit, which also requires a specific emergency situation that was not foreseen. Mr Lintmeijer spoke of "mystification." In addition, I came up with something of recognition, because I thought that mystification is also being created around the intentions of the government. Honestly, I haven't heard any of that. I am also curious as to what kind of strange measures a government would like to take around such a Brexit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u21	I have already mentioned to the CDA colleague that there will be a gap when a ministerial arrangement comes into force. Until one of the Chambers does not agree and it has to be withdrawn, you will be on your way for at least a week; I think longer. For example, licences may have been promised and already put into effect. Then you have a democratic deficit, don't you? Surely things are already being settled that we have no control over at all? It's very hard to reverse, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u22	In general, when a minister takes a measure on the basis of a ministerial arrangement, Parliament can only control it afterwards. This applies to all ministerial arrangements, and this also applies if a measure is taken under this ministerial arrangement. This law differs from other ministerial arrangements by introducing additional safeguards, namely the obligation to direct the ministerial regime directly to both Chambers, and the explicit possibility for both Chambers to reverse that ministerial arrangement, so there are additional safeguards. That is indeed after all, but because the ministerial regulation can only be implemented if there is a real need and a very urgent nature. Parliament then has all the instruments it wants and can always have consequences for the position of the person in question if it is felt that this power has been wrongly used.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u23	It is a matter of ministerial regulations which deviate from the law, so that gap remains. That's a few days in effect. Then there may also have been cases that cannot be reversed without us having any control over them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u24	Suppose the situation is presented by Mrs Faber; a minister, a colleague or myself, has taken a measure which, in the eyes of Parliament, is totally unacceptable. In any case, Parliament will reverse this measure. That is possible after one day or a few days, Mrs Faber is right. If that is really unacceptable, then I assume that Parliament will also give up the confidence in the govern ment in question, because then it is really very serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u25	Mrs Faber, finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u26	The latter is an assumption, but we are still dealing with permits, which I mentioned in my example. You also have to deal with stakeholder confidence, so it's very difficult to reverse it. I don't see that happening yet. Or are you going to promise that you or someone else from the government will turn them back? When such a ministerial arrangement is repealed, is everything that happened during that period, during that gap, all reversed if one of the Chambers does not agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u27	In Mrs Faber's hypothetical case, this is a licence granted. It would have had to meet all these criteria: it could not have been done in any other way and there was an absolute emergency. It seems complicated to me, but it may be that the Court finds that those criteria have not been met. Then the Minister concerned will indeed have to turn back, taking into account the legal consequences for the person who obtained that licence, in your example, and who was therefore reasonably entitled to assume that he had that licence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u28	All the way to the end, Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u29	Again the question: will the consequences be withdrawn, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u30	That really depends on the specific case, because the person or company concerned apparently received that licence at that time, in your example. Then you must exercise a weighting of interests. In general, I cannot give an answer other than that when the Court says that that situation must be brought to an end, it must be done, but the precise way in which it depends on the legal effects of the person involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u31	I did not agree with the Minister's argument that the Chambers could abolish a measure which is displeasure to them. Then he said: you can always send the minister home, and I will put it another way. We're not making laws to send the minister home, are we? I think that is an argument that does not really make sense, on the content of the legislation. In all cases, the Chamber can always withdraw its confidence in the cabinet or in a minister. That is not an argument for adopting or not adopting a specific piece of legislation as far as my group is concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u32	I went into the question of whether there were any parliamentary guarantees. I have outlined a number of them which go beyond the usual guarantees in the application of a ministerial arrangement. That is in itself justified, because this is also a special law. I have added something about the case of serious abuse, because that is how I hear the concerns of some people in this Chamber. I have also asked for examples of what is being thought of, because I have not heard them. In my time as a Member of Parliament, I would have said: if a ruler really takes a serious advantage of a law, it will have serious consequences. That's why I thought it was right to add that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u33	My point is not that the Minister should not take any serious advantage of it; he should not, in any way, do so under any circumstances. Then you're right there's one last resort. The point is that we are trying to implement, or at least discuss, a piece of legislation that has sufficient guarantees in itself, without having to resort to the ultimate remedy. In this context, the balance that we need to look for is whether this is legislation that leads to sufficient safeguards within democratic rules, without going straight to the ultimate remedy, or whether these safeguards are not sufficient. The Minister uses the same word "mystification" but the other way. I do not tend to speculate at all about all kinds of calamities that ministers would like to bring. I am concerned about whether we are creating a piece of pure legislation, in line with the proportion of the problem before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u34	It would help, in fact, to appreciate Mr Lintmeijer's use of the term'mystification' if we could exchange views here in the debate on what kind of misuse is envisaged. Most probably I can reassure the Chamber immediately, but first I need those examples.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u35	I have another point, but first of all I would like to refer to what Mr Lintmeijer has just said. In the case of a ministerial arrangement, I would also like to join Mr Faber in saying that once it is in force, one of the two chambers of parliament can, as it were, call back the government. That is what has been called an "emergency procedure." I have just heard the Minister say that there might be a serious abuse of power. A minister has done something that absolutely should not have been done as a result of which that minister could be sent home. As far as I am concerned, this demonstrates the problem. We're not necessarily talking about those cases. That could and of course should be sent home to the minister, but it could also be that, in the opinion of one of the two chambers, a measure should not have been taken, because it was simply the wrong measure and not because there was serious abuse of power. So we say: it wasn't supposed to be like that. The problem then is that the Minister has just said that it is complicated if one of the two chambers concludes that the criteria have not been met, but that it may be possible for that measure to come into force. That is also the gap Mrs Faber pointed out. It is not necessarily a question of serious abuse, but of a different weighting or assessment of a measure taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u36	Then the Chamber, because this is in the law in this way, has the possibility of the ministerial arrangement being sent immediately to reverse this immediately. Once again, Mr Van Apeldoorn would really help the debate by indicating for his part what wrong use he is thinking and where his concern is, because then I can probably defuse it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u37	I would first like to await the Minister's reply when it comes to my question of how the Minister defines 'emergency situations'. Let me come back to an earlier point. On the general question of whether there is a problem here with ensuring democratic legitimacy, the Minister said no. As far as he is concerned, there is no problem, but does he not see a potential tension in terms of the powers given to the Minister, to each individual minister, under Article X? The Minister just asked me what kind of weird measure I'm thinking of. It is not a question of what kind of weird measures we could come up with. The Minister says to us: trust that we are taking the right measures; of course we are not going to take any strange measures. The problem is that we cannot know that in advance, especially since the Minister does not specify the concepts of 'emergency' and 'emergency'. Then we can only check afterwards. I say this with Mr Schaap, among other things, that there is a blank delegation. Each individual minister can take any measure, weird or not, and this is not the issue in the discussion, even in the case of ministerial regulation in the context of the consequences of the Brexit. That's a blank delegation. Does the Minister not see any potential tension between that fact of the blank delegation and the principle of the legislator's primacy?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u38	I don't see that tension. Mr Van Apeldoorn's wording illustrates once again how important it is that he, too, should come to terms with it. He talks about every conceivable measure, but he doesn't. If it is a measure that could have been taken under ordinary legislation, then the present law says: then you do it on the basis of ordinary legislation. If it is a measure that can be taken on the basis of an ordinary AMvB, then the law says: on the basis of the AMvB. The wording "any conceivable measure" is completely incorrect. That is why I do not see the tension, and that is why Mr Van Apeldoorn would add value to the debate by indicating, for his part, where his particular concern lies. As long as we remain so abstract, it will be very difficult to remove that concern.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u39	This is partly an abstract debate because it concerns general principles. The Minister states that this is not a question of every conceivable measure. Then I would like to receive a list of all the measures we are not talking about. We will then be able to draw up an indirect list of the measures which appear to be the subject of this debate. As the law has now been formulated and this makes the explanatory statement very clear, it can cover any conceivable measure, except those already mentioned or provided for in Articles I to VIII. For the rest, the provisions of Article X (1) of the Treaty also apply: what is not provided for and cannot be provided for, unknown unknowns, the Minister may act outside the parliament, if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u40	... unless that can be arranged on the basis of existing legislation or on the basis of an AMvB. Mr Van Apeldoorn also asked me to give examples of other laws which have similar powers of delegation. Such a list is included in the note on the report. I've dealt with one of those laws extensively here once. That was the House Act. There too, it was a major change in the system that we have been discussing for a long time, quite frankly not on the delegation clause, but it was also accepted that it may be necessary to have such a provision in place in order to have a radical change in the situation. Another example, also in the previous cabinet period, was the increase in the age of AOW, also a major radical change in the system. That law also contained such a provision. I would also like to refer to the note on the basis of the report. We can also see the cases in which such a delegation clause has been invoked, because that has really happened in the past. Mr Van Apeldoorn also asked whether the fact that we would agree to a delegation clause, as mentioned in Article X, would have consequences for future situations. I can't say that in general. I have just indicated that it is more common in far-reaching legislation for such a delegation clause to be in place, but I cannot say in advance in which cases that is or is not the case. Mr Van Apeldoorn also asked me, and Mr Lintmeijer replied, to define again the concepts of 'emergency' and 'unacceptable'. Mr Van Apeldoorn quoted the phrase in the answers to the questions put that the situation was different from what is most desirable. That's one sentence from a series of criteria. It is then purely to mention all the criteria. To this is added the requirement that there should be a real possibility of achieving a change in that situation with the measure in question. The advantage of action must also outweigh its disadvantages. It is also important to take into account the point we have just raised, the aspect of violating the primacy of the legislator. That is what the fourth paragraph is about. It is only with this phrase that the comprehensive answer that surrounds that phrase is too short. When it comes to the definition of an emergency: in normal human traffic, you are talking about an unforeseen situation in which you find it absolutely undesirable to remain on top of each other as a spectator. Then there may be a tension between the urgent need to act on the one hand and the speed at which regular regulation can be put in place on the other. Then it is indeed not possible to give an example of this. That is a perfect catch 22, because if we know the example, and very often we know it, it is in one of the other articles of law or in one of the other laws that have been submitted at national or European level. The latter is very often the case, because exit from the European Union, of course, has the most impact on European regulation. So if we knew the situation, it would be part of that package. With the European Commission, which is closely involved by us in this legislation, which happens over and over again, and with the countries around us, who draw up similar legislation, and with the Council of State, the government believes that in an unknown and far-reaching situation it is possible to have an article as a no-dealbrexit for the situation that you do not want to, but it is possible to do so. Mr. Chairman. Following this explanation of the questions raised on the constitutional and democratic aspects, I would like to address the questions raised by the various questioners, first of all the questions raised by Mrs Faber, who also discussed the point I raised in detail in her speech, just now also in the case of interruption. More specifically, it asked for which type of EU legal act Article X is applicable. Will it only be new or also existing EU legal acts? Article X is intended for currently unknown EU legal acts and only in so far as those acts are not carried out by regular means. Then I'll come back to the balancing framework I just outlined. Mr Postema asked if, in general, I could give a final assessment of the way in which the Netherlands was prepared for a no-dealbrexit. As I indicated in my introduction, I am really proud of the way in which the government, the implementing organisations, but also a lot of entrepreneurs, hospitals and institutions are preparing themselves, including for a no-dealbrexit. In fact, when I gave a presentation at a ferry terminal with Mr Kaag last week, an English journalist said "let the Dutch organisation our Brexit" because they were impressed with the way we are preparing it. Of course, that fills me with pride. By the way, we also have great appreciation for all the people who are working with this on our behalf at Customs, Marechaussee and all those implementing organisations. The Netherlands is the second largest exporter to the United Kingdom, while Rotterdam and its surroundings are the main ports of entry. Of course, we have other ports and Schiphol. That is why it is so far-reaching that I really cannot rule out the possibility that a Brexit, and certainly a no-dealbrexit, can also be accompanied by disturbances and problems. That is one of the reasons why we are still campaigning intensively at the moment to ensure that entrepreneurs and people in general who are dealing with the Brexit are preparing themselves. Fortunately, we also see a sharp increase in the number of times the Brexit Window, the Internet site, is consulted. We will continue to prepare and keep the alert. We depend on a lot of players and we're dealing with strangers. That's why this law is before us. I can tell you that we have prepared ourselves to the utmost, but I cannot entirely rule out the fact that, if it were to come to that, there would be practical problems. Mr Postema also asked about the state of play in the EU legislative process. That's on schedule right now. The Chamber has always been informed about this with letters and chips. If they are not in the picture with the First Chamber, I am, of course, willing to do so. At the moment, the picture is that this decision-making is at a pace. Moreover, it is true at EU level, as at national level, that it is impossible to exclude after a Brexit, certainly a no-dealbrexit, at the last minute it could be seen that there is still an unforeseen circumstance that calls for additional regulation. This is also a reason why the law now before us also sees the possibility of the EU coming up with legislation that demands implementation in the Netherlands. Mr Postema asked for the deadline when an AMvB or ministerial arrangement under Article X was rejected. The wording we use for this in relation to the adaptation legislation is 'as soon as possible'. Because it depends very much on the specific regulation and its complexity, I cannot say in general how much time it takes, but on the basis of Mr Omtzigt's amendment and Mr Verhoeven's amendment it must be within ten weeks when it is a derogation from higher law. This at least sets a maximum, which I can do very well with. Mr Van Apeldoorn had a few additional questions, first of all the question as to what is going on with the interpretation of the Dutch Parliamentary Motion, which asked to publish the underlying risk analyses. The Chamber has recently, generally also from my colleagues who are trade ministers in the field in question, had information on the measures they are taking, on the scenario analyses carried out and on the preparations that have been made. The House of Representatives is therefore completely up-to-date at the moment. Mr Van Apeldoorn asked whether Article X could be used by each minister, at least when necessary in view of the consequences of a Brexit. That can indeed be done by any minister. The chance is rather small that I will be myself, because the Foreign Minister does not have much of his own legislation. Mr Van Apeldoorn also asked why Article X in the balancing framework would not have ordinary legislation, otherwise the AMvB would not have a very regular legislative procedure. That is because Article X is motivated by the need to be able to take urgent measures and therefore relates to speed of action. Ordinary legislation is worse adapted to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u41	If an AMvB is placed before the States General, isn't there just enough time to make a bill? I believe that the Council of State also noted this, as did Professor De Lange in the round table with the House of Representatives. At the moment you have an AMvB with the States General, you can also submit a bill to the States General. Then it can be debated and voted on the same day or the next day.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u42	If an ordinary procedure is possible, that will of course happen. But the suggestion that legislation can be a matter of a day... Legislation must be properly prepared. There is an official preparation and there is the route through the Council of State. It's not a matter of a day. In the situation where there really is urgency, you cannot always fall back on the legislative path. Mr Apeldoorn and Mr Koffeman asked about the competence of the NVWA. Indeed, NVWA has powers to prevent suffering in live animals. Where that competence already exists under existing legislation, the balancing framework of this law states: apply existing legislation. It cannot be excluded that there are complex situations where more regulation is involved, where there may be animal suffering or serious perishable goods or outside the territory of the NVWA human suffering, for which you will have to take measures very quickly to prevent worse.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u43	This is really exemplary for where it's raging in the whole law. The party colleague of the Minister, Mr Schaap, said: what if a car of cattle is lost somewhere? The Minister now states that the NVWA can act very well. There will be no examples of where that would not be the case. It is said in vague terms that situations could arise that things go wrong with animals or with humans. That's really unsubstantiated scaremongering. At the moment, the laws and regulations in the Netherlands are sufficient to intervene. If not, you can expect the Party for Animals to be the first to say: please, take such an emergency measure in the law and help those poor animals. So there is no question of that at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u44	Mr Koffeman is now giving a response which I leave entirely on his behalf. I have already indicated that if it can only be resolved within the existing competence of the NVWA, the balancing framework will already answer that question. Then we will do it with the existing regulations of the NVWA. At the same time, this cabinet, with the Council of State, with the European Commission and with the other countries in front of this situation, notes that an unknown situation may arise. Some of you said "unknown unknowns." This may be a situation in which there is also human or animal suffering. Mr Koffeman asks me the question which he knows is impossible to answer: please give me the examples. If you know the examples, they are already in other legislation or in European legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u45	I note that the member of the minister's party comes only with this example that has been settled for a long time. I just want to know what's not arranged. The minister says "unknown unknowns." You can't base legislation on: you never know what's happening, so let's include a clause in case you never know what's happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u46	As I also outlined in my introduction, the alternative that you pretend is that you can be exhaustive in your analysis of a completely unique profound event like Brexit. That's the alternative. That is what Mr Koffeman says.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u47	Mr. Koffeman, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u48	Finally. At the moment when there are completely unique situations, the Minister has the instruments: boys, here there is a completely unique situation, I announce an emergency law, an emergency measure or a state of emergency in this case?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u49	That is a very strange observation in a debate on democratic legitimacy. I know that it has also been done by two professors, who have also been quoted by you. A state of emergency is far more profound. We really shouldn't want to do that together. A state of emergency will even allow a number of fundamental rights to be temporarily suspended. It is very strange to express that wish while there is a lighter remedy in the bill. I come to questions from Mr Lintmeijer. He asked me first of all to discuss the future cooperation between the Netherlands, the wider EU and the United Kingdom after a Brexit. In his contribution, Mr Lintmeijer also expressed his deep regret at the United Kingdom's decision to leave the European Union. I'll share that with him. I share that because of the direct Dutch interests, whether it is the position of citizens or of entrepreneurs. I share this because of the great importance of international cooperation at a time when it is already under so much pressure. I share this because, in international discussions, whether in the EU or in other contexts, we often have a spirit of association with the United Kingdom, for example, with regard to the importance of free trade or the importance of careful and economical management of taxpayers' money at European level. So there are many reasons to regret that. The commitment of the Netherlands is therefore not in any way to bring the United Kingdom to the fore in the Brexit negotiations. The referendum requires us to find a proper arrangement to break up, guaranteeing the interests of citizens and businesses as much as possible. This can be done by means of a withdrawal agreement and the measures taken by the Netherlands itself. Whatever the outcome, preferably on the basis of a withdrawal agreement, but I cannot exclude other forms of Brexit: after that, we still remain neighbours with large shared interests. I therefore think it is very important that the relationship should continue to be good and intensive and focused on mutual interests. Mr Lintmeijer specifically addressed access to British waters. LNV's colleague informed the Chamber of this at the beginning of this year, again in case a no-dealbrexit should occur. First of all, there is the possibility that fishermen or owners of fishing vessels will receive compensation under the European Maritime Affairs Fund, which writes a number of implementing provisions to mitigate the indeed large impact of suddenly not being accessible to Dutch fishing vessels from British waters. Moreover, it is not the case that there will be an additional budget for this. The second proposal concerns the allocation of quotas. This proposal allows the EU to continue granting British vessels access to EU waters provided that EU ships also have equal access to British waters. That proposal shall apply only for 2019 and shall be based on reciprocity for that period. Moreover, Mr Lintmeijer will agree with me that it is particularly important for fisheries that we agree on a withdrawal agreement, because Dutch fishing is very dependent on access to British waters. Mr Lintmeijer and others asked how the list of amendments to the law was drawn up other than those contained in Article X. It is indeed a special group of topics ranging from the topography of semiconductors to the joint extraction of oil and gas, electricity connections, social security and driving licences. How did we come to this special collection? That's because every department is asked to think very carefully about the consequences of a Brexit or specifically a no-deal Brexit. This often led to the conclusion that something had to be regulated at European level. When I had these debates in the House of Representatives about six months ago, my position was still very often: we brought this to the attention of the European Commission, because they will have to amend the rules. I mentioned earlier in my reply that we are happy to note that huge steps have been taken in this regard. If it came out of that balance that it was not at European level either a shared competence or an exclusively Dutch competence, then that resulted in the list of measures that ended up in this law. It was really a careful analysis: what are we going to run into in practice? Mr Lintmeijer and Mrs Oomen specifically asked how Article X would be dealt with in the event of a withdrawal agreement. The chances of using them are indeed less than in the case of a hard Brexit, but it cannot be excluded. I have just outlined that it could also be seen at European level that, even if there is a withdrawal in the area of the withdrawal agreement, something has been overlooked. In such a case, it may also be necessary at European level to take an additional measure. If that is a combined competence or has implications for national competences, it may require recourse to Article X. The Council of State also discusses this situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u50	I am pleased that the Minister recognizes that the chance will in any case be reduced or reversed in the case of a no-deal than in the case of an agreement. But if he does generalize that something; the Kingdom of the Netherlands regularly concludes all kinds of international treaties, bigger, smaller, more complicated, less complicated. We do not make this kind of safety net provision for all this kind of legislation. Suppose there is a retirement agreement as it is or in modified form, these 500 pages provide for all kinds of eventualities that can occur for a long time. Then I ask another question of proportionality: is not the use of such a heavy safety net a little superfluous in relation to what has already been arranged?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u51	Again, the question arises as to whether we can assume that the Dutch government or the European government will be able to foresee all the consequences of a negotiated Brexit in this case. I wish it were. Since the procedure has been very careful, I have considerable confidence in it. That's why I'm saying the odds are much smaller. But both the scale of the Brexit area and the fact that this is a unique event, which we have never seen before, means that I cannot guarantee that we have not overlooked anything. Again, I'm not the only one making that analysis. It is shared, both by our own Council of State and at European level.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u52	I am satisfied with the answer given by the Minister, but can he confirm once again that, if there is a withdrawal agreement, the situation will be maintained as it is at present; that, although they are institutionally no longer members, all the EU legislation that is now in place and which they do not opt out for will remain valid for the rest until 2021; I thought that Mr Postema had done the same; and that there will therefore be little or no need to do business with an agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u53	On the last question a full yes. The first was: does all regulations remain unchanged? If we had put it that way, we wouldn't need 200 pages. There has been a very serious examination of which rules remain in force in what way, with the aim of achieving the result as you put them: existing regulations, subject to a few exceptions, remain in force unchanged. However, since this regulation has been fully implemented, it cannot be ruled out that there is a loose thread somewhere. That is why I cannot say that Article X should never be applied at all if the withdrawal agreement is accepted. Then I come to Mr Ester's questions. He asked me to deal with the current political situation in the United Kingdom and the way in which the Netherlands and the European Union should deal with it. It is probably superfluous for me to say that the current political situation is still very unclear, because the opinion of President Bercow yesterday seems to have resulted in the possibility of another vote before the European summit on Thursday. Otherwise there would have been a small chance that we would have seen an agreement with the withdrawal agreement by Thursday. Then I would be able to answer your follow-up question a little more easily. In this case, a short extension after 29 March would most likely be requested to allow the United Kingdom to adapt national legislation. However, in the absence of a definitive assessment of the withdrawal agreement in all likelihood, the United Kingdom may also opt for a request for a longer extension. Those rumors are circulating again this afternoon, but because rumours are circulating all the time, I must also give it the qualification of'scoffs'. A longer extension raises the very essential question of how to deal with the election of the European Parliament, because doubt about the legality of the election of the European Parliament would also have far-reaching implications for the legitimacy of regulation adopted under that new European Parliament. The Dutch position with regard to such an extension, which Mr Ester understandably asked for, is that we are sympathetic to an extension request, but we do think it is logical that the United Kingdom should first of all indicate clearly how long they should ask for it, so it is logical that they should indicate the period and for what purpose. Those two influence each other because it has to justify "for what exactly" how long that extension lasts. All this in the light of the fact that not only the Netherlands but all the EU Member States will have to vote in favour, not the European Parliament, as I have heard. Even one European government leader could say: I am not convinced by the United Kingdom's question. This makes the combination of a clear extension application and a sound justification very important for the United Kingdom itself. Mr Ester also asked about the specific role of our Prime Minister. Mr Ester will not be unaware that our Prime Minister is playing a very active role on the European stage, both in providing clear ideas on where the European Union should be heading as far as the Netherlands is concerned, and in maintaining close contacts with other EU Member States. He is also highly respected in that role, both by the way he does it and by the fact that he has also shown in the Netherlands that he can lead governments in different coalition relations for a long time. He plays that role with great enthusiasm. Wherever possible, I support him in this, always in the light of the great importance of European unity, because we all know how complicated it is to bring a European Union of 28 Members into line. At the same time, it is crucial that, in negotiations like this, you ensure that the noses are all in one direction, so that you do not get into a position where it seems justified or unjustified as if you would want the interests of one party to outweigh those of the other. But there is no doubt that the full commitment of the Prime Minister and the entire Dutch Government is aimed at reaching agreement on the withdrawal agreement. Mr Ester asked whether there was still a solution to the problem of backstops, which is now the stone of shock in the negotiations. Sometimes it seems as if the organisation of the backstop was a European wish against the wishes of the United Kingdom, but that is not the case. That was done in close coordination and on the basis of both wishes, at least when those negotiations were held, because both agree that a hard border between the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland is very undesirable. On the one hand, because of the real threat that tension and violence will rekindle. I myself spoke there at the border with people who have experienced this themselves; it was only twenty years ago. It is also difficult for us to imagine that around such a border, which you do not see in the landscape at all, people could suddenly use violence against each other again. But they were able to prove convincingly that the sensitivities are still close to the surface. There have been recent attacks. In such a situation, you can get all kinds of smuggling networks, creating a mix of political and criminal activities, which can be highly explosive. That in itself is a reason to want to avoid that hard border to the extreme. There is also a direct Dutch interest. The United Kingdom wants to be able to conclude trade agreements itself after the Brexit, it will apply different conditions than the European Union, because otherwise they would not have had to come out, and so it may be that they make agreements on quality or safety at a lower level than the European Union itself wants. If there is no border control, Dutch citizens and entrepreneurs can be confronted with goods that have entered the EU along that route, goods that had been stopped along another route, but which we will then have to deal with. The result is unfair competition and possibly even security risks. All the more reason to hold on to the desire that at the same time there is no hard border between Ireland and Northern Ireland, but that there is a proper arrangement for dealing with goods entering England after the Brexit. Mr Ester asked how coordination between Brussels and The Hague was arranged in the event of emergencies. I have already indicated to you that in the preparation of this coordination is very close, that the legislation we are discussing today is also shared. That is what we do with the European Commission, we do with the countries around us, and I often exchange views with colleagues of mine on how far the Brexit is going. The way in which we prepare in the Netherlands is looked at with great interest. That will remain the same after a Brexit-date, whether it will be March 29th or another. There is therefore a continuous administrative contact, which is also available for the event of emergencies. At the Brexit weekend, everyone will be at their posts and there will be hotlines, both nationally and between the European Commission, at least its officials, and the Netherlands. Mr Ester asked whether that does not mean that we will lose our own direction. It certainly isn't. Because these contacts are so close, we will immediately pass on to the European Commission when we see something happening in its area of competence and we will act under the present law when it is a national or shared competence. Then Mr. Ester asked...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u54	Sounds like I've been asking a lot of questions. I'd like to put a few things together, if you don't mind. My question was also whether it would not be good, given the Brexit history so far, that if there is a delay, longer or shorter, there should not only be a concrete result at the end of the journey, which is the commitment of the Dutch Government, we have understood, but we also demand or negotiate that the British Parliament has agreed to that result. That seems to me to be an important tightening-up, because the last few weeks and days show that things are going wrong there. Could I ask you, through the chairman, to reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u55	I am trying to imagine the situation in which such a supplementary wish should be put on the table. Because we are now shortly in front of a European summit, without agreement in the British Parliament on what they do want. So now we can only make the demands as I just put them: dear British, formulate for how long, but also for what. So I do not see a new moment when we could make an additional wish or demand for the British Parliament. But maybe I'm missing something.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u56	What I mean to say is that we are making that part of the deal with the United Kingdom. Not only do we say how much time they have to come to results, but we also assume that at that time the British Parliament has agreed to the agreement which has been concluded, in the light of the fact that it has gone wrong in recent weeks. There was an agreement, but only its own parliament had not agreed to it. Can we make that part of the deal?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u57	Well, the goal of an extension is to reach an agreement. But you cannot make a condition of it, because if the outcome is not an agreement, then that Brexit still arises. Mr Ester also asked how the coordination with the co-governments took place. There is very intensive contact with municipalities and provinces about the consequences it may have, for example on the traffic situation. Later this week, with a number of concerned mayors and Commissioners of the King, I will review the state of play again to see if there are any points on which additional steps need to be taken. However, the compliments I expressed earlier on the great commitment to preparation apply explicitly to the co-governments. Then I come to Mr Backer's question. He also addressed the various subjects that eventually landed in the Collecting Act. He indicated that he had actually expected a thicker law with a longer list. I believe that the declaration is that exit from the European Union has consequences mainly at the level of the European Union. So there has been a solid package of amending measures and directives descended. The areas which remain purely national or combined national are indeed clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u58	At the risk that I am now too fast: if it lands at EU level, will it be the case that some of them will end up here via the directives and regulations? I remember the Minister saying that part of Article X may also have to do with the implementation of directives which cannot be done in time in accordance with the fine royal procedure. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u59	Sure, but there is also a solid set of guidelines shared with the Chamber. I have indeed said that, even then, as I cannot rule out at national level, at European level, I cannot exclude the fact that there is still a loose end in it. Mr Backer asked me to go further into the distinction between EU competence and national competence. If there is an exclusive EU competence, which is regularly the case, then the Dutch legislator cannot act. This applies in a specific number of areas laid down in the EU Treaty, such as trade policy, competition law, customs union, all very important issues, especially in the movement between the United Kingdom and the rest of the European Union. There is also shared competence, such as the internal market, agricultural policy and the environment. These are all very relevant areas in the relationship with the United Kingdom and the European Union. If the EU intervenes in shared competences through the adoption of European legislation, the national legislator is no longer competent for what is already regulated there. I am thinking of environmental standards, health standards and product standards. Finally, there are a number of areas where the EU can coordinate, such as social security. In these cases, the EU has limited or often no competence at all to conclude agreements with third countries. In these cases, the Netherlands is competent, for example in the case of taxation or social security. That is where you have seen proposals coming along. Mr Backer asked me to deal with the possibilities of correction available when using Article X. That is first and foremost the correction by Parliament, as we have just discussed in detail. In addition, the government itself can take the initiative for a change because we have come to a moving understanding. It is true that the court is always open, as Mr Backer said. Mr Backer also asked whether there could be a situation in which the United Kingdom would conclude more favourable rules with individual EU Member States. In the area of economic activity, this is not really appropriate because the WTO rules apply there, including the most favored nation concept, which means that you should not discriminate in the treatment of trading partners. So I don't see that happening soon. Then I come to Mrs Oomen's questions. I dealt with her first question, which concerned the possibility of recourse to Article X in the event of a withdrawal agreement. Mrs Oomen asked whether the answers suggested that the Dutch Government could take measures contrary to EU measures. I can't imagine that. The legislative proposal oversees areas where the EU has no competence and where we cannot therefore go against EU proposals. I believe that this was a question in connection with the clarification of the infringement procedure. That explanation was not intended to suggest that the Netherlands would deliberately go against the EU. Mrs Oomen asked whether her explanation of the Council of State's opinion on Article X was correct, namely that a ministerial regime can only be used in the event of acute emergencies when there is not enough time for the route of the AMvB. The answer to that is yes. Mr Schaap asked whether Article X meant that the Minister responsible must have done everything in his power to give Parliament the last word. That's right. Preferably this is done in advance, but if there is no other way, it will be done through a ministerial arrangement, but with a direct possibility for Parliament to intervene. Mr Schaap also asked me to deal with the situation of potentially disadvantaged parties when a measure under Article X is withdrawn. Mrs Faber also made that point. I must also say to Mr Schaap that I realise that the reversal of a measure has legal effects for those who have experienced such a permit or other consequence of that decision and that you must take into account the position of those persons, companies or bodies who have relied on it in good faith. Mr Schaap asked me to comment on the entry into force of the bill. It will take place by royal decree, so as soon as we have established that the Brexit is occurring. The law will be published after alignment in this Chamber, which I hope will be. It is, of course, important that the precise legal text comes out when it can. Then Mr. Koffeman. He asked about the consequences. We have just had that discussion in the event of an interruption. Mr Koffeman also asked if there were any other instruments. I have indicated that if there are, they will certainly be used. Mr Koffeman asked what opportunity I saw to allow the law to go through with the omission of Article X. In fact, he's asking me to draw up a novelle. I am not prepared to do that because I am convinced, however annoying that may be, that I must be prepared for a situation in which there is an unforeseen emergency situation where the government must be able to act. The question about animal welfare was answered just in the event of interruption. A motion has then been tabled by Mr Van Apeldoorn. This motion, with letter H, is intended to ensure that the law, including Article X, should not be allowed to continue. For the same reason as I just indicated to Mr Koffeman that we can face a serious, unpredictable situation, I must advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u60	In any case, before the Acts to correct what the Minister said. The scope of the motion and the operative part is not that the whole law cannot enter into force. The motion relates specifically to Article X of the Treaty but that the law cannot enter into force until the Minister arrives at a further specification of the situations in which the powers provided for in Article X are applied.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u61	It concerns Article X. Unfortunately, as I indicated to Mr Koffeman, I have to take that situation into account. Mr Van Apeldoorn also asked to list them. He knows this is the catch 22. The classic catch 22 was the pilot who could only be released from the air force if he was mentally disturbed, but the fact that he asked to be released from the air force indicated that he was not mentally disturbed. Mr Van Apeldoorn is now asking me whether I should like to list the unknown people. That is as impossible as the situation described in the indeed beautiful book Catch-22.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u62	A catch 22 seems to me to be the catchphrase of the day, but I would like to point out that the operative part does not call for a list, but for a further specification of the concept of "emergency" or of situations where the Minister says: in those situations this applies. We have noted that the Minister has so far only said that the consequences are irreversible and unacceptable. "Unacceptable" means "deviation from the most desirable." We have said that this is a very thin story. Of this we say that this is not what is normally meant by 'emergency'. Now we ask the Minister to specify this. I'm not interested in a list. I'm interested in a further specification.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u63	Now Mr Van Apeldoorn is not doing justice to the debate that has just taken place. I have indicated that the mere use of one phrase from a long answer to the questions raised, which contains a series of criteria, does not reflect the information which the government has already provided to this Chamber and also in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u64	Mr Van Apeldoorn, finally on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u65	Finally. Maybe the Minister should just read his own answer. He's talking about a long answer, suggesting I took it out of context. There is one paragraph in which there are three things. I have just quoted the first point: it must be something that differs from the most desirable. The second point has just been mentioned by the Minister, but I also mentioned it earlier in the debate: there must be an alternative. It seems to me that that is rather weedy, because otherwise you would not be able to propose a ministerial arrangement at all. Thirdly, the criterion is that the benefits must outweigh the disadvantages. If that were not the case, you would certainly not be able to understand that the Minister would come up with such a proposal. I have not read the essence of how the Minister defines 'emergency'; if they are there, I would like to hear them stay in the answer that it differs from the situation that is considered most desirable by the Minister. That could be anything. I think that is a vague and very broad definition of 'emergency'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u66	I insist that Mr Van Apeldoorn does not do justice to everything that has been exchanged. In fact, the phrase which he explained says: "to arrive at the conclusion that something is "unacceptable' will first of all have to be a situation or situation that differs from what would be the most desirable situation in the given circumstances." This sentence contains the word "first'. The phrase contains the word "first" because after that there is an extensive list of the other criteria. There is a'second' behind it, namely that there must also be a real possibility of achieving the alternative. There is also a third possibility: "third, the benefit of such action must outweigh its possible disadvantages'. It is then extensively addressed to the primacy of the legislator. I really don't think it's pure to cut out a sentence, a sentence that says "first" and then suggests that this is the argument.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u67	This is a little entrapment. I also mentioned all the other criteria in my interruption. The Minister says that I am not doing justice to the debate, but he is also doing no justice to the debate and to my interruption. I'll mention the criteria. I am merely saying that it means that "emergency" is first and foremost defined as a departure from the most ideal situation. Those other criteria are not restrictive in substance. That is our point: they are not restrictive criteria in substance. The Minister says the benefits must outweigh the disadvantages. That's pretty weedy. There must be an alternative. That's pretty weedy, too. That is not a substantive limitation and therefore it remains a blank delegation. The Minister may say that he doesn't think that's a point, but we do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u68	That phrase really says that it must be "first and foremost" a situation that is different. The word "first" already indicates that there is a list of criteria behind it. That leads to the intensity of my reaction. Mr. Chairman. I hope I have answered the questions in the first place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u69	Thanks to the Minister. I think he owes one more answer to a question I asked about the evaluation of the functioning of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u70	I see Mr Ester walking to the microphone and the word 'evaluation' is shooting through my head. I think that is a very fair question. I think it is purely to keep the law itself, but also the whole process of such a Brexit, comprehensively under review after it takes place. This law itself is important, because of its special character, but also the cooperation between different services and authorities in the Netherlands, both public and private, and cooperation with the European Union. I'd be happy to agree to do so. The moment I can't judge yet. I think it is reasonable to take a serious period after the moment of Brexit to look back on it. I am thinking more of a one-year period than of a short one-year period, again because it will be very far-reaching. But I would like to make a commitment to evaluate both the law and the whole procedure surrounding it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u71	Thank you, Minister. We now come to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u72	Mr. Chairman. By voting in favour of this bill, the Chamber is putting itself out of play for the period from the start of a ministerial arrangement to a possible withdrawal of the scheme. Actually, it's a piece of the First Chamber. If the gap, which I have already mentioned, is combined with non-existent EU legal acts, then we do not know where we are anymore. I agreed with Mr Lintmeijer's remark that you are not making a law to send the minister home. After all, the Minister said 'I agree with that'. Of course, that's a weird way of doing business. The Minister also indicated that he had spoken to companies that were concerned about, for example, exports of tomatoes and cucumbers. So here you can see how far the power of the European Union already extends, because we are no longer talking about our trade agreements and we must wait for the whims of Brussels to see what is going to happen. If you combine all this with the principle of loyalty, with shared competence and all that dawdling about Articles VII to IX, then the fence is gradually off the dam. I would like to comment on Mr Van Apeldoorn's motion. When the motion was read out, I actually liked all those considerations. I thought that was gonna be great. I was very sorry that he came forward with his request about Article X. The PVV doesn't want that whole article X. Nor can we think of any explanation, which would allow us to accept that Article X. I regret that, because the motion was in itself a good one. Unfortunately, as the motion is now, we cannot vote in favour.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u73	Maybe just to explain the operative part. Nor can the SP Group live with Article X, but the operative part calls for Article X not to be put into effect, as long as such a list is not submitted to both Chambers. At that time we can still give our opinion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u74	But then you're suggesting that if a list is presented, you'll be sidelined. The fact remains that with Article X you have a gap between the moment of putting into effect a ministerial arrangement and its possible withdrawal. It's gonna stay that way. That's why we can't agree to it. I would also like to thank the Minister for his answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u75	Thank you, Mrs Faber. I give the floor to Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u76	Mr. Chairman. We thank the Minister for his reply. We said we were looking forward to his answer, but frankly, I'm a little disappointed. In our view, the Minister was very brief on the fundamental questions of democratic legitimacy, particularly in relation to Article X. These questions were not only raised by my group, but also by some other groups. In any case, I have not heard the in-depth consideration and exchange of views with this Chamber, which Mr Schaap asked for on the constitutional aspects of the law, again with regard to Article X. Mr Schaap said that we should not deal with these issues too lightly. Of course, that was about us as a Chamber, but I would also like the Minister not to do so. In fact, the Minister takes away all our critical questions with the remark 'I do not see the problem'. In an interruption on my part, he made it clear that he doesn't see the potential tension either. One could say that I have heard other groups today about this, too, and that there was tension between what Article X says to do on the one hand and the principles of the primacy of the legislator on the other, but that we have solved them in the only way. Emergency procedures and the like have been discussed. That's how it's balanced. I also heard Mr Backer say it. We'll come up with another consideration. We see that differently, but I can actually hear the Minister say that he does not see the initial tension either. To be honest, I was surprised at that. If the Minister had tried to convince us on these points of principle, he would not have succeeded. We have just discussed the criteria of 'unrecoverable' and 'unacceptable' in the interrupting debate and the Minister's interpretation of that last term. I'm gonna distance myself from just one sentence. I read about the whole paragraph during my interruption. I quote: 'The criterion 'unrecoverable' must include situations where an undesirable situation or outcome cannot be undone afterwards'. ""Unacceptable" is a subjective concept." "In order to arrive at a judgment that something is unacceptable," "that is to say, to the Minister, "there must first of all be a situation or situation that differs from what would be the most desirable situation in the circumstances." And then: "Secondly, there must also be a real possibility of achieving that alternative." And "thirdly, the advantage of that action (knowing: realising the alternative situation) must outweigh its possible disadvantages." That is the essence of this paragraph in order to answer our questions. I maintain that this is not a substantive limitation imposed on what amounts to a blank delegation to each individual minister to act at his or her discretion on the basis of his or her assessment of the situation, to judge the urgency and possibly to govern per ministerial arrangement. As far as we are concerned, it remains a vague and very broad notion of need. I asked the Minister whether he really believes that 'a situation which differs from what would be most desirable in the circumstances' is an acceptable definition of 'unacceptable', or that is what he calls 'unacceptable'. Apparently, the answer is yes. I also said that you should not want a blank delegation, also given what was previously exchanged in this Chamber. I note that the Minister thinks it is quite normal. He gives all kinds of examples of other laws and says: we do that often; that's just a normal practice. Our group certainly looks at that differently. I hope that will also apply to other groups in this House. Finally, I also asked the Minister with regard to the AMvB about the difference of principle between prior and ex post control of Parliament, as in the case of a ministerial arrangement. I didn't hear about that. It is said that this can be done afterwards. But it does matter very much whether it happens in advance or afterwards. I would therefore like to hear the Minister discuss this further. Our conclusion remains, however, that Article X is currently very badly linked to the primacy of the legislator. Hence our earlier motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u77	Thank you, Mr. Van Apeldoorn. Mr. Postema doesn't need a second term. I give the floor to Mr Lintmeijer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u78	Thank you, Mr President. The profit of this debate is that, as never before, I have looked into the topography of semiconductors, once again concluding that we have a vital industry, including around Eindhoven. I thank the Minister for the answers. There are some points I would like to take up. Part of this debate is a pragmatic debate. It's about solving problems that we foresee as a result of the Brexit. We can solve these problems with or without legal frameworks. In most cases contained in Articles I to IX, including those semiconductors, the cabinet simply has our support. We can understand what you're doing. We still think it's a special list, but the answer made that clear. In addition, this is also a debate in principle. It is about the democratic legitimacy of decisions that you may or may not have to take unexpectedly. You then have to peel off a bit the issue of when you make those kind of decisions, when you put the law aside in advance and there is only some control at the back of it possible to do so. Moreover, a backside that has been strengthened, especially by the House of Representatives. You can do a few things. You can see what the definition of "emergency" is. Let's just use that word for a while. The minister says, "You'll never get out of that, because you can't define exactly what you don't know." What's left is that you can look at casuism. In this case, things can be very big. Then we have a co-ordination law with emergency measures. Of this, the Minister says: that is too great for this circumstance. Then we have a number of situations, such as finance, water or public health, which are already covered by the law. If you peel further, we'll get back to the traditional car with cattle on the quay. The NVWA actually provides a legal basis for this in the Animal Law or in European legislation. In short, it remains very difficult to grasp what remains. You'll be on uncharted territory. I am pleased that the Minister indicates that the playing field is getting much smaller with a regulated Brexit based on an agreement. At the same time, the piece that remains remains extremely invisible. The difference with other safety net schemes in legislation is that they are always casuistic. They are always bound by an area of policy, in which we say at the end of the line: there can be something left; then we do something with a safety net. The complexity of this law is that it can cover all policy areas, and that it only increases diffusion. That is what my group is struggling with, in all honesty. We will have to weigh up the Minister's answers versus democratic legitimacy, which is partly not covered. We will do that in the group and come to a final verdict next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u79	Thank you, Mr. Lintmeijer. I give the floor to Mr Ester.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u80	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the Minister for answering our questions. It has helped our judgment a step further. As I said in the first place, the groups of the Christian Union and the SGP deeply regret that the United Kingdom has decided to leave the Union. We're losing an important ally and partner. All in all, it is an historic moment in the history of the Union; at least it feels that way. The consequences will be great, not only economically, but also socially and even culturally, and not only for the European Union, but also for the United Kingdom itself. Much is still open and much will depend on the European summit next Thursday. Our groups look forward to the decision-making process and first called on our Prime Minister to play a binding role. We underline this once again. The Minister also indicated that he recognized himself very well and had good hope in that respect. But now we have practical preparation. Against that background, we are judging this law. There is every reason to have common sense prevail in the fierce turbulence surrounding the Brexit, both inside and outside the United Kingdom, and to ensure that we have our legislation in order. The Christian Union and SGP groups believe that the legislative proposal with the amendments adopted is reasonably balanced in terms of the primacy of the government to act quickly and decisively in an exceptional situation such as the Brexit and the primacy of parliament as legislative and controlling power. It can also be said that the opinion of the Council of State has been very helpful. Mr. Chairman. Another response to the Minister's commitment to review the Brexit Act. Thank you for that commitment to truly comprehensively evaluate the functioning of the law, with a line under "comprehensive" and to do so together with other Member States. This offers a unique opportunity to assess the impact of a unique exit from the Union by a Member State. We have to learn from this. We need to check how an emergency bill works. We need to learn if we've prepared properly. We need to see if we have our parliamentary control in order. We look forward to discussing with the Minister the results of this broad evaluation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u81	Thank you, Mr. Ester. I give the floor to Mrs Oomen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u82	Madam President. I already said at the end of my first term: better safe than afterwards sorry. I mean that we now need to adopt a number of emergency measures, because we do not know what is coming to us. But there are a few things that the Minister has said that I would like to comment on for my part. One thing I noticed is that according to all the spokesmen, the way in which the British are dealing with their own referendum and their outcome is very much... I dare not say the word 'bad', but it is fragile, to use a nice German word for it. The Minister doesn't really say anything about that. What he's saying is that I actually thought it was crazy too: we're gonna miss them because they're kindred spirits, we have mutual interests, we have free trade and we're all sparing on the budget. I could take a look at the budget last weekend when I was there for a wedding. Indeed, nothing is spent when you look at the roads, the stations and the infrastructure. That's one. And two: the European Union is more than free trade and budget for me. It is also the institutional frameworks that are indicated for a method of cooperation, which benefits us as Dutch people, as Europeans. Actually, I would have liked to have heard from the Minister about that. I also note that I have often experienced the fact that there was no desire to do so in the area of social policy. I had an example of that going on once. That was about trade union work within a company where I was rapporteur. At the time of Tony Blair, Mr. Wilson, a member of Labour, came to me and said: Ria, you can't vote this legislativeion. I said, "Why not?" He said: you are old Labour, I am new Labour. This simply means that in the area of social policy, the EU is also irreplaceable on a number of points. If the Minister says that Europe is coordinating social policy only when it comes to the treaties we have, then I say: yes, that is true. But if we then conclude an agreement between the Netherlands and the United Kingdom, then that agreement can only remain there if it does not interfere with the legislation, which we also have in the social field for third-country nationals. I would ask the Minister to go into that again. Mr President, that was it. I'm sorry I got a little personal in the example.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u83	Sorry is also an English word. Thank you, Mrs Oomen. I give the floor to Mr Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u84	Mr President, thank you. First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. He's handled it accurately and precisely, and we've been going over the parts that I thought were important. Usually the Minister is extremely focused and precise. He is now. I have once accused him in a debate that he did not want to give any insights, but in this case I think it is right. We will come back to this in the debate on the state of the Union, because I think we should look at the post-brexit situation. But there are so many variables and uncertainties in British politics, with such dramatic twists and turns, that it is wise that he does not speculate on that. Mr. Chairman. However technical the proposal is in essence, Mr Ester said that it is very far-reaching and dramatic and I do not think we will even get to discuss the exit agreement here. It is also a time to say how you experience something. I went to England with my parents my whole childhood on vacation. My father drove only in an English car after the war. He would never drive German again. Even when it was no longer justified, because the English cars were getting worse and worse. The British later mistakenly began to think that the improved English cars were also genuine British cars, but of course they were Japanese, German or Korean, assembled in the UK. That's actually in a nutshell what happened to the thought that Britain Britain stayed. But that's what it's remained in a completely different design, with a completely different engine under the hood. Mr. Chairman. My group has been sufficiently discussed and explained what is really needed. This was also thanks to Mr Van Apeldoorn, who was extremely persistent in the discussion. I think it is sufficiently framed and claused so that my group can justify this as an exception. I think it is also very important that the government, by completing this bill, has the certainty that it can respond to the things that can be done. There are plenty of unforeseen and tragic events that need to be addressed and referred to by the President at the opening: Christchurch and Utrecht. I think it is important for the government to continue preparing for possible retirement. The D66 Group will support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u85	Thank you, Mr. Backer. I give the floor to Mr Schaap.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for the detailed consideration he has given about this law and the literal text. I had also asked for some considerations to be made in a state-of-the-art sense. What does it say and how do we deal with it? That's pretty obvious. This applies in particular to this law, and not only to the hard text, but also to the spirit of the law. That spirit is particularly applicable here because of the many open ends that are in it. It has become clear to me that the Minister intends to apply this law with utmost care to the whole cabinet and to think of it as soon as possible, with a view to Parliament's right to monitor it. In that sense, I believe that the Minister's reply has provided a little more constitutional clarity. I am therefore reacting very differently to this than Mr Van Apeldoorn has done a few times in the case of interruption. This law prevents worse, namely that, when there is a specific emergency situation, you have to declare a state of emergency. It turned out to me that at the end of the day, when Mr Koffeman finds that the NVWA no longer has the resources, he reverts to the existing legal instruments: the Coordination Act. In a miserable case, the Minister is forced to declare a state of emergency, but that is not the purpose of the Law of Coordination. I think that this bill is also a bit of a blessing, because it can prevent that emergency grip, that emergency jump. I would like to say a few words about Mr Van Apeldoorn. I myself said in my contribution that this law has a generic character. In the case of interruption, I have nodded the word 'blanco' for a moment, but I have looked very quickly at what that word, which the Council of State also uses, means. So I do not mean that it is carte blanche and that the Minister has the full freedom to do whatever he wants with this bill. He has also made this clear in his wording: both the law and the explanatory statement state that the law for application has a number of very strict conditions. That's all part of the law. In this sense, I stick to my words 'generic application', because it is not clear when this law can enter into force and in what situations that is. I think that the motion tabled by Mr Van Apeldoorn in the first term is superfluous, given the very broad explanatory statement, both in the law and in the words of the Minister. The requested one is already provided for. Since it is quite clear that there will not be any further details, this motion will have the effect of a hidden amendment and we are not in this Chamber for that. I only wish the Minister, and with him the Cabinet, much strength in the very unclear situation that is already taking place and which will soon escalate, in the hope that at least it will not be so bad that this law must be used in succession. It is clear that the VVD Group will support this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u87	Thank you, Mr. Sheep. I give the floor to Mr Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u88	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you also to the Minister for answering the questions in the first term. We have just had a debate on 'the unknown unknown', the invisible danger that can threaten us all at any time without knowing, suspecting or predicting it. Krishnamurti has devoted commendable words to this. He said, "One is never afraid of the unknown. One is afraid of the knowing coming to an end." That's right. The fear of the EU's deconfiture, as we know it, has apparently been promoted to the adviser for new legislation. As we all know, fear is usually a bad counselor. There are many unknown situations facing the EU and the Netherlands in the recent past. This was the case with the introduction of a single currency. This was true of the quantitative increase, which was and will be used to pump immeasurable amounts into the buy-out of bonds. This was the case with the accession of new Member States such as Hungary and Romania. That was the case with the Greek crisis. And it is true of the budgetary difficulties in Italy at the moment. We could continue to list "the unknown unknown" until after midnight. In none of the cases mentioned here, even in the case of the Ukraine Treaty rejected by the electorate, was an emergency measure necessary or envisaged, as proposed at present. This gives the impression of an occasional reasoning and occasional legislation concerning Article X of the Brexit Collecting Act. Unfortunately, my group cannot agree to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u89	Thank you, Mr. Coffeeman. I'm gonna take a look at the minister. Do you have an opportunity to answer directly? That's the case. Good. I shall then give the floor to the Foreign Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In particular, Mrs Faber addressed the wider interests that the European Union would not have with regard to the cucumber or tomato grower I have outlined. A lesson from the Brexit as we see it now is that it leads to very great concerns and behavioral effects for entrepreneurs. I do not hear from those tomato growers, flower growers or fishermen that they look forward to the moment of that Brexit. As a result of the suggestion that the Netherlands should itself conclude an agreement with the United Kingdom, I would like to move to a Dutch fisherman. Most of the Dutch fishing takes place in British waters. The reason why Dutch fishermen have access to them is that the European Union as a whole opens up its market to British fish products. Suppose we were to follow Mrs Faber; then the Netherlands would no longer be part of the European market, and so it could only open the Dutch market for fish sticks or cod fillets to the United Kingdom in exchange for access for the Dutch fishing fleet to those large British waters. Our fishermen wouldn't have access to that. That would be very negative for the fishermen, but also for the flower growers, the tomato growers and all the other entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u91	I would like to make a comment on this, because I am thinking of pulse trawling. Whether or not they are allowed to enter British waters, those fishermen are simply pushed aside and they are simply not going to make it thanks to the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u92	The pulse trawlers are not the example I mentioned. The example I mentioned was access to British waters in exchange for access to our market.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u93	Yes, but if you then have access to the British waters and then your company goes bankrupt because you are no longer allowed to fish in an innovative way, which should be good for the environment. That should be your party and multiple parties in this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u94	With or without pulse trawling, Dutch fishermen ask me and Mr Schouten: ensure that we have access to those British waters. Pulse trawling is also of great importance, but apart from that, they are asking: ensure that we have access to those British waters. In Mrs Faber's proposal we cannot do that anymore. I think that's part of the debate. Mr Van Apeldoorn asked if I saw the tension in Article X. I have made it very clear that I prefer to use the regular instruments: standing legislation or an AMvB, if there is the opportunity. So I would like to emphasise that I am not waiting at all for this ministerial arrangement to be applied. I hope that, in the evaluation requested by Mr Ester, we will agree that it was fortunately not necessary. But that desire doesn't change the situation that I can't rule out that such an unexpected emergency does occur and that I might harm people, entrepreneurs, in the Netherlands by not including such an emergency article, such an article X. This can also be about animals, the example that is always mentioned here, but it may as well be about people in emergency situations. So I am not saying that because I do not see the tension or because I do not see that this may be a far-reaching intervention; hence also the extra guarantees that are more than a normal ministerial arrangement. It's really a case of: here I am and I have no choice. I remain of the opinion that the debate would have gained value if I had been in a position to discuss Mr Van Apeldoorn's concerns about the possible abuse, but I have not heard the examples. I am therefore unable to discuss his concerns in the second term either, because they have not been filled in. Then Mr. Lintmeijer. I share with him that this debate and this law is partly a very pragmatic side. A number of articles of law are indeed very pragmatic, but the Netherlands is indeed the proud country in which, among other things, ASML is located, but also other beautiful companies that are confronted with very practical things, such as the topography of main guides. But there is also a principled side to it. That was also the reason for the construction of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u95	I'm interrupting you for Mr. Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u96	We in the SP Group have asked the Minister several times in the event of interruption and also in the first period whether he can come up with a more detailed definition of the concepts of "emergency" and "emergency." This concerns not only us as a group, but also other political groups and also state lawyers. I also quoted Professor Voermans. He says that the regulation of instructions in Article 2.31 refers to emergency situations. In the event of an emergency, an exception could be made to what is laid down in the Jurgens motion for a resolution, namely that higher regulation should not allow for lower regulation which is contrary to the law in a formal sense. That is what I was talking about in the interrupting debate with Mr Postema. On this point, Mr Voermans says that these are strictly defined emergencies. Our position has been and remains that there is no close definition. The Minister is constantly saying: come up with examples. No, the question now lies with you: can you not come to a closer definition? The answer to that is apparently no. That is what we can see, but then you should not replay the ball in that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u97	This isn't about playing back the ball. It's two things next to each other. Mr Van Apeldoorn is asking me a question about the framework of emergency situations. I have indicated that this is a perfect catch 22, because we are dealing with emergencies that we can foresee through the rules that are also in place. The emergency situations that we cannot foresee are defined when they are serious and urgent enough, but you cannot fill them in at the level of detail. This is in addition to the fact that I have all the respect for the concerns of Mr Van Apeldoorn or possibly others, but that it is really useful for the debate when those concerns are addressed. So I had hoped to hear examples of the concerns, because that is a different subject from what we were just talking about, namely: what exactly is an emergency? That would have helped with the debate. I would sincerely like to take away your concerns if the debate had addressed those concerns. I was at Mr Lintmeijer's reply. I agree with him that there is a pragmatic side and a principled side to it. He also outlined that the fact that an emergency article is included in a law is not unique in itself. What is unique, however, is that he is absolutely right in saying that the breadth of the consequences of the Brexit is now less visible than with other emergency items in what area the Minister can rely on. I agree with him on all of that. At the same time, I find myself and the government in a situation where we want to prevent damage to humans and animals by all means. We see in this debate as well as in the broad social debate that some say that you should try to provide all the situations and tell others that you should have an article in case you have not succeeded. I am convinced that, as a responsible driver, I must be prepared for that situation. I realise that if we were to make use of Article X, specifically the ministerial arrangement, it would place a very heavy burden on me and my colleagues. We must then show that all these other instruments could not have been done and that the emergency situation is so serious and urgent in terms of its consequences that we must use it. Of course, Mr Lintmeijer can also appeal to me and my colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u98	One more brief note. I understand what the Minister is saying, and I have no doubts about his intentions as responsible director. But this kind of legislation is not made on the person or on the current cabinet. It's a universal law once it's passed. That is why we need to look beyond the intention of the current cabinet or minister. In this sense, we need to consider it in a broader context.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u99	Certainly, but Mr Lintmeijer will agree with me that, as a cabinet other than the cabinet that you are presenting this law, it is bound by both the text itself and the explanatory statement and what you and I are exchanging here. The balancing framework and the burden of proof in applying Article X, specifically the ministerial regime, will therefore be equally difficult for each minister. Mr Ester indicated that the consequences of the Brexit extend far beyond the in itself important and technical exercise covered by this law. I totally agree with him. This decision is indeed a great loss. Once again, I respect the course of democracy in the United Kingdom. Mrs Oomen asked me to put the term 'fragwürdig' on that. I really think that, in my position as Foreign Minister, witnessing the complex debate that is taking place in the United Kingdom and the great consequences that a Brexit has for us there and for us, I must nevertheless be pragmatic about the practical consequences. That is why I am standing here and I am also in the middle of the debate with Mrs Faber, for example, on why I really think it would be a completely insane idea for the Netherlands to leave, but I do not give qualifications for the way things are going in the United Kingdom. Back to Mr. Ester. I deliberately indicated that I would like to do the evaluation more broadly than the law itself, because it indeed answers a number of important questions about how we deal with such a complex situation in the Netherlands, not only as a government, but also as a society, and how the European Union deals with it and how we deal with it in this interplay, both nationally and internationally. I have just raised Mrs Oomen's first point. Mrs Oomen also commented on my outline of where the Netherlands and the United Kingdom have particularly hit and strengthened each other: free trade and budget. I did not say that because I believe that this is the only or most important thing in the European Union. The State of the Union which has presented the cabinet contains the key points of the cabinet. They go a lot further. They are also about the rule of law. I am delighted to debate with you here, but if it was not, I would have taken part in an initiative this morning to launch a peer review on the quality of the rule of law in EU states; incredibly important. When I look at my European visits last week, for example to Hungary, and the debate I have had in Romania, the subject of the rule of law is incredibly important. I also mention the issues of climate, migration and coordinated foreign policy: all very important. In all these areas, the Netherlands actively seeks alliances. Our Prime Minister plays a special role in this too. My own activities also concentrate very much on maintaining constant contacts with colleagues. Those could be very different coalitions. The reason why I mentioned these two subjects was that we found the British on our side in these two areas and sometimes not so many other countries. That is why I will miss them in these areas. When it comes to a social Europe, there are, of course, a number of European directives and measures relating to them. I refer to the directives on access to social security, the Detachment Directive. There may always be wishes to adapt them, but it is not the case that the European Union is doing nothing in this area. At the same time, we are proud of the way in which we have built up social security in the Netherlands. There's a lot of worry. I remember the recent discussion on pensions. This concerns whether the Dutch would be better off with uniform European directives in this area compared to what we now have in the Netherlands. Indeed, on a number of examples, I prefer the Dutch situation far above the British situation. For example, Mrs Oomen mentioned the state of public space in the UK and the often extreme inequality. Mr Backer does not hear many views from me. I hope I have done so by saying that I have a great preference for the Netherlands within the European Union. I also hope that this is reflected in my response to Mr Lintmeijer on the great importance of intensive cooperation with the United Kingdom, even after a Brexit. I share the feeling of loss that Mr Backer described when the British left. He gave the personal anecdote about the holidays. He didn't just say "with the tent." My mother was an English teacher her whole life. So I do remember that. I often tell British people that an important reason that she was was the result of what she experienced as a girl in Nijmegen. There was the last bridge conquered during the Battle of Arnhem. Afterwards that front area was and there were British soldiers in the house for weeks, defending the front. This resulted in enormous appreciation and respect for the British and interest in their culture. I very much share that appreciation and respect with Mr Backer. We must be eternally grateful for that, but that should also be an important part of future cooperation. I was happy to convince Mr Schaap in my analysis of why I believe this legislative proposal can pass the test of criticism by state law and democratically. We also share the view that a state of emergency, which would be possible under another law, would really be too crude for this application. I have not been able to convince Mr Koffeman because he found this legislation. In a way, I can tell him that it is occasional legislation, for an opportunity that we have not sought, but which has come over us. But you will also find this in the framework of the law; the additional safeguards, coupled with Article X, temporaryity of the law, are specifically aimed at the Brexit. The special opportunity that unfortunately gives rise to this law is also really reflected in the way in which this law has been designed. Mr. Chairman. I hope I have answered the questions in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u100	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-19-eerstekamer-11.u101	I'm here to deal with the bill. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. I propose that we vote next week on the legislative proposal and on the motion tabled.
