ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the debate on dealing with the consequences of the continuing drought.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u2	I would like to welcome the Minister for Infrastructure and Water State and the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality. I welcome the MPs, the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home. Eight speakers have come forward. Every speaker has four minutes. First of all, I give the floor to Mr De Groot of D66. Perhaps nice to know: the debate was requested on 4 September last year. We can remember that, I think. Then it was a dry period. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u3	Thank you, Madam President. I would have thought, given the importance of the subject, that the group chairmen would now be supplanting themselves for the interrupting microphone that they themselves wanted to have this debate. But that's not the case, so I'll do this myself. Indeed, my colleague, Mr Sienot, asked this with the words: "President. If we do nothing, the crops will dry up, nature will burn and the ships will crash." At that moment, I think it was still in the summer, before the recess, everyone looked a bit cozy: well, that's not going to happen anyway. But unfortunately, my colleague was right. I'm gonna say after it, this is gonna be the new normal thing, and get used to it. Mr. Chairman. The sea level is rising and the Netherlands is falling. With the disastrous dry summer in mind, D66 and GroenLinks make 62 proposals to cope with the consequences of climate change in the Netherlands, so that we can also keep our feet dry in the future. Yesterday, together with GroenLinks, we presented an initiative paper on this to the two directors.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u4	That immediately leads to an interruption. Mr. Geurts, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u5	Yes, I think: the first person to take the word 'climate change' in his mouth tonight will get an interruption and the next. The D66 Group, through Mr De Groot, makes a link between drought and climate change, which, according to the D66 Group, is linked. The KNMI recently said: "An area with high air pressure above southern Scandinavia caused record-high temperatures and this drought. In the last century there has been no increase in the occurrence of this air pressure pattern, since 1979 there seems to be even a decrease. There is also no trend in less rain over the last 112 years. Therefore, it cannot be said that the drought is due to climate change in 2018." End quote of the KNMI. What is the reaction of the D66 Group to this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u6	The same KNMI has said that the rise in sea level is going even faster than we anticipated. It was called 292 centimeters................................................................................................................................................................................ That means our kids are gonna go through that. That also means, has also been said by the KNMI, that the extremes will increase: it will get wetter here and sometimes drier. The fact that this summer might not fit in with this trend does not change anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u7	Mr De Groot is just unlucky that he used the word 'climate change' the first time. You can see very clearly that the KNMI says that you must not draw parallels between this drought and climate change. So I hope D66 doesn't do that yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u8	One swallow doesn't make spring and one dry summer may not make climate change yet. But that something is going on here and that sea level is rising and the country is falling, is absolutely the case, and no one will dispute that. That is why we have made these proposals, but today only three proposals, all three of which are based on the idea that we need to come up with smart solutions with nature. The first one. Waterscapes in peat meadows have been pumping away too much water for years, so the soil decline has gone far too fast: with the drought this summer up to seven centimeters. In villages and cities around, for example, the Green Heart, around peat meadows, this will damage up to EUR 22 billion by 2050 if we do nothing. That damage is caused to foundations and to houses of people living there, by pile rot. That has to do with the policy of the waterboards. Due to the over-dry peat meadows, 2 million cars are released into the air every year. Water boards have an important role to play in dealing with the consequences of climate change, Mr Geurts, but they are also an important cause of it. That's why D66 wants a study on the future resilience of water boards. Is there sufficient expertise on climate adaptation and, not to mention, in decision-making with the secured seats, the emphasis is not too strong on agricultural interests, while the residents ultimately pay the bill?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u9	An interruption by Mrs Van Brenn. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u10	I totally agreed with the last part, but I have my doubts about the first part. We also have difficulty with these secure seats, because we also have our doubts as to whether the citizens are democratically represented. In the first piece you question the quality of the people who work at the water boards. Then I hope that D66 will explain this, because I think they are extremely competent in the field of water.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u11	Thank you very much for this question. The water boards have had excellent people for 700 years and are doing their job. They do so by keeping our feet dry and also, in recent years, making sure that we can have agriculture. So it was actually functional board. This included the expertise you need for this. Several motions, including Mr Geurts, have recently been adopted in order to see whether we are not going to be able to do more work on these waterboards, including in the context of climate adaptation. Then you have to ask whether they have the right expertise, apart from projects and very good people. Do they have them in the house or should we do more? I think that is a justified question given the scale of the problem. There's another question you need to ask. It is now seen as a functional board and its background is actually "who pays, determines." But if the bill is deposited with society and the neighbors and the task becomes wider, namely that whole climate adaptation, you actually become a general government. That's why D66 thinks it's important that you adjust the way you make decisions and the secure seat will fit less.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u12	If I understand correctly, Mr... Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u13	The Great.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u14	Mr De Groot of D66 says that he does not doubt the quality of the people in the waterboards. There is a lot of expertise and they also lend each other experts, many engineers. So we all have no doubt about that. So he says: our point is the secure seats and that we should actually get rid of them. If that's the conclusion, I'll totally share it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u15	That's a question you have to ask, the one about the secure seats. To do it from today to tomorrow, I do have a question mark. I will come back to that in the second term, with a proposal to take a closer look at it. Because in the Netherlands we also deal with each other carefully and also with the board. But D66 is no secret, it is also in our electoral programme, which is not in favour of the secure seat. Mr President, I shall continue my speech. Number two is that the waterboards in the peat meadows have actually maintained too low a groundwater level for many years. I told you. Every year they have adapted the groundwater level to the decline of the soil, to the sound of it. D66 actually wants the Minister of IenW to discuss this policy from her wider responsibility with the water boards. Are there no alternatives? Can we not, for example, see if we can save those areas? Because if we do that right, we can even grow peat meadows again. That means that there aren't any climate gases going up, but that they're picking them up. Of course we should do that together with the farmers. Mr. Chairman. Number three, we channeled the rivers heavily a century ago. As a result, the bottom of these rivers has fallen enormously, up to 2 meters. We can use channels or other smart solutions with nature. Then we can prevent erosion and keep ships sailing. Thank you to the Minister for getting on with my motion, which calls for, in addition to water safety, the spatial integration of the river 2.0, so to speak, 'Space for the river 2.0', to be integrated into the high-water programme. But D66 believes it is important that there is sufficient expertise for this. I'd like a response from the Minister. Mr President, I will conclude. If we want to win the battle against the water, nature is our friend. The alternative is that our children learn German and we move east, but D66 does not prefer that. What we do want is for us to prepare for the future. Nature has a central place in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u16	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Geurts of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u17	Mr. Chairman. On 20 December last, the government wrote to the Chamber that the drought in the Netherlands was officially over. There was no longer any threat of water shortage. There was a lot of rain in the weeks and months before both the Netherlands and Germany and France. As a result, the water levels in the Rhine and the Meuse are back on track. So this debate also has characteristics of the proverbial mustard after the meal, but we do not realize the value of the water until the source has dried up. Fortunately, it has not yet come to that, but the effects of the drought period are still visible. The groundwater level is still too low. That is being worked on, but to get the level back to normal it has to start raining for a while. 2018 was an extremely dry year. We're gonna have to learn from that. The experience of this drought period shall be evaluated. Water managers are in the process of drawing up scenarios in case of a further drought in spring. The question I have to the Minister of IenW is: what about it? Are these scenarios going to be discussed in this Chamber? What aspects are involved in such evaluation and scenarios? Will the position of agriculture and inland waterway transport be adequately addressed? And is dependence on abroad discussed? A lot of river water comes from neighbouring countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u18	I think the beginning of Mr Geurts' speech is fantastic, because he is actually asking if these droughts will occur more often. The same KNMI, which you just quoted, has indeed started with scenarios. That says that it is very likely that the kind of droughts we saw last summer will occur more frequently. Wouldn't that be because of climate change?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u19	First of all, thank you for the compliments for the start of my speech. You haven't even heard the end. I wonder what you might say about getting over that "fantastic." What you say about the KNMI is true, but the full answer is: in two of the four climate scenarios from 2014 it appears that the Netherlands is getting drier. The other two scenarios indicate that there will be no extreme droughts, so fifty-fifty. It is also said that more research is needed. In any case, it is certain that southern Europe will be drier and northern Europe will be wetter. The Netherlands is right in between. So it can still go either way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u20	It's not exactly fifty-fifty, because the KNMI thinks that drought scenario is going to happen more often. I repeat the question to Mr Geurts: would that not be due to climate change?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u21	That's what I've been talking to you about in my interruption. You must not hang the drought of the past period on climate change. At least that was the outcome of the KNMI; I will not repeat the quote. The story that goes with it is also that it is fifty-fifty: of the four scenarios two are and two are not. I just indicated that, so I can neither confirm nor deny what you're saying. Let's see what the future will bring.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u22	I was also enthusiastic about Mr Geurts' first sentences. My question is about the coming summer. He says that the waterboards are busy re-establishing the groundwater. Does Mr Geurts perhaps think it is a good idea to be prepared for the next summer, in case it gets dry again? According to Mr Geurts, does this include building a buffer to keep the drought under control?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u23	There's more than one question in here. I'll just get two out. The waterboards work together with the landowners. I also see in the surrounding area that the waterboard distributes balls that you can blow up in the divers so that as landowner you can hold the water next to your plot instead of it pouring away. So yes, the waterboards are working to get as much water into the ground as possible in the places where it is needed. The other question is whether we should not build that further. We can go very far and flood the whole of the Netherlands. We'll have plenty of supplies, but I don't think that's quite the point. You should also look at the land use. I am curious to see what Members of Parliament will say about my speech at the end of my speech. I'll come back to that and give you a few more things.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u24	I am going to listen with interest to the rest of the speech. I am very curious to see how the balance of interests and the impact falls, towards water storage or towards agricultural use.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u25	You're talking to a real middle party, so it'll be right in the middle. I have just mentioned a number of questions on which the CDA Group asks the Minister to reflect. Several waterboards in the east of the country think there will be drought problems again next spring. The new drought will result from an extremely low groundwater level over the past year and probably this year, according to the waterboards. Do the Ministers share this idea and if so, what is their answer to it? Several waterboards with provinces, municipalities, nature organisations, farmers and drinking water companies are looking for temporary measures to increase groundwater levels. They're trying to boost the groundwater level. For example, the thruster is put up to hold and distribute water, so that it can sink into the soil which is now soil dry. Does the Minister of IenW have an overall picture of the problem in this case? Can the Minister provide insight into the latest calculations of the Dutch Hydrological Instrumentarium, the so-called NHI? This is a new calculation program of the joint Dutch water managers. Is it true that this spring farmers and nature reserves will again have a period in which the water disadvantage of 2018 has not been eliminated? The NHI predicts that. The NHI also predicts that, no matter how wet this winter, deficits are unlikely to be filled in parts of Limburg, Brabant, Gelderland and Drenthe. Mr President, another important aspect in the event of drought is the impact on CO emissions. In the event of extreme drought, the peat bottom drop is accelerated and this results in additional CO emissions. I still see D66 and GroenLinks nodding. Well, I guess I'll just have to start thinking. Veen oxidizes faster and releases CO. At the climate tables, it has been proposed that peat meadow areas should reduce CO by 2030. The provinces must now join with the farmers and water boards. As far as the CDA is concerned, the so-called level-controlled drainage is the route. Farmers can then precisely determine the groundwater level per plot because a drainage is built in the meadow. Do the ministers of LNV and IenW share this view of the CDA? Rounding up. The CDA has great respect for the farmers and their families who are working day and night to grow food for us. The Chamber supported by a large majority the motion of Van der Staaij and Buma on broad weather insurance. How far is the notification in Brussels?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u26	Thank you. There is another interruption by Mr De Groot. Let's meet two interruptions in total.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u27	I am still enthusiastic about Mr Geurts' speech. It is good to revisit the problem of peat meadows here. Mr Geurts mentions one solution, and that is the level drainage. It is known that this is a rather expensive solution and the effect is not yet fully known. Would it not be appropriate for us now to explore in broad terms what alternatives there are, alternative farming methods in peat meadows, where with a higher level of groundwater you can still give a function to those areas, either for nature or for extensive dairy farming, sometimes with underwater drainage? Then we fly it a bit wider than straight away from one solution, which is also quite expensive.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u28	There are a lot of answers to that, because many things are mentioned in this interruption. Is this the only way? No. The climate tables have also indicated that there is still a need for innovations. But with your permission, Mr President, I think I'll also pass on this question to the cabinet. I wonder how it looks at that. Peil-controlled drainage is a really nice innovation. I hope it will be supported by the D66 Group. Anyway, maybe we'll talk about that later while we're enjoying a stuffed cake.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u29	Well, well, well. Beautiful things are happening tonight. I would like to give the floor to Mrs Bromet van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u30	Mr. Chairman. It was a very nice summer. I don't think I've ever eaten outside this many times. But it got drier and drier. I would like to touch on two aspects of this drought today: drinking water supply and water storage. Drinking water is extracted from groundwater or surface water, and both of us were short last summer and autumn. Additional groundwater abstraction caused dryness of the land and surface water became more and more mixed with salt water from the sea locally. The only way to stop the salt is sufficient supply of river water, but draining too much water through the rivers causes the land to dry again. A devil's dilemma. The old ways of water management do not seem sufficient to meet the challenges of drought. I ask the Minister of IenW: does she think that new ways of managing water are needed to safeguard drinking water supply? And if so, what ways does she think of? Our drinking water consumption is growing every year. Less consumption also reduces scarcity. Does the Minister know what causes the ever-increasing demand for drinking water? And does she have any ideas on how to promote less drinking water? The Netherlands has a number of strategic drinking water reserves. We must be able to fall back on this when the need is high, but this cabinet refuses to protect national drinking water reserves with a safeguard zone where there is no polluting industry or mining. Shouldn't this drought also be a wake-up call to at least protect our reserves better? I'd like a response from the Minister. GroenLinks thinks that much more needs to be done to save water in times of abundance, so that we can use it in times of scarcity. The Netherlands was once a swamp, a natural sponge that could best save the water. More sponge and less pumps are needed. That brings me to the subject of water storage. My colleague, Mr De Groot, has just spoken about our own initiative papers, which we presented yesterday. I am very pleased that the first two speakers in this debate both speak about peat. I visited the peat meadow landscape with the Minister this autumn. That's where we got to know the problem. I hope that this spring the subject will be discussed with my colleagues in a note-taking meeting, but I would like to mention the conclusions of my note. Because the Dutch landscape, with meadows and locks, we're famous for it all over the world.................................................................................................................................... By lowering the water level for agriculture each time, the peat dries and burns the plant residues stored in peat for centuries. This will release a lot of CO. You can compare it to 2 million cars, but you can also say that it's as much as two coal plants, and then every year. The solution seems simple: raise the water level, so that much and much less CO is released. The three main conclusions from my peat note are as follows. One: the Empire has been absent for far too long in the discussion about soil decline in peat meadow areas, and that needs to change. Two: we still don't know a lot about bottom descent, and much more and long-term research is needed into bottom descent in the peat and the way to combat it. That is not just underwater drainage, I say to Mr Geurts, because that is business as usual for farmers. Other solutions will have to be found. Three: for the land users in the peat meadow landscape, the farmers, there really must be alternative earning models, because it is difficult to say to a farmer: too bad, we are going to raise the water level; go away again. Mr. Chairman. It is very tempting to make motions today to implement our whole stack of proposals on peat. I am going to resist this temptation, because the subject deserves attention in a deeper debate rather than on the sidelines of today's drought debate. But the fact that we are discussing this in the light of climate change, the preservation of the landscape, meadow birds and the supply of drinking water is certain.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u31	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Mr Dijkstra of the VVD. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u32	Mr. Chairman. Netherlands. Netherlands: low land. We've lived in this beautiful delta since time immemorial. This delta has brought us much: transport via rivers, trade, raw materials, easy connections with other cities and protection against the enemy, but also nuisance and flooding. The Bataviers already knew. And later the Dutch made our country safe and provided dikes and dry feet. We've always adapted to live here. So many of our ancestors were already fighting against that water or profiting from it. For example, the surnames in this Chamber also extend. A lot of people like me have "dijk" in their last name. When we vote jointly and severally here you always hear: Van Dijk, Dijksma, Dijkhoff et cetera. Water management is in our genes, I'm saying. We protect what we have built together, sometimes polding, but always realizing what the power and vulnerability of the water is. That relationship with the water, that's one that's very exciting. We have to defend ourselves against that, too. So we've become really good at that over the last few centuries. It is now one of our finest export products. Polders, dikes, lakes, artificial islands: we build them all over the world and make a good living. I'm proud of that. Last summer we saw that too little water can really be a big problem. This summer was characterized by high temperatures and a long period of drought. Lack of precipitation therefore also resulted in a water shortage. The drought crisis team took action. Which country has a drought crisis team at all, you'd think. The government can't let it rain, of course, but we can arm ourselves against the consequences of that drought. Drought can be particularly annoying. On the one hand you did have a beautiful summer, but if your garden plants are completely scorched after your holiday, then there is not much to it. If you can't wash your car on the street anymore, you'll notice. But, worse yet, if you're hit as a farmer and your harvest fails, that's not good. Agriculture suffered visible damage due to the drought: dry fields with corn, failed harvests, a financial noose. I would like to ask the Minister who is now present: when will the measures be taken to prevent, in the aftermath of last year's droughts, that these droughts might accumulate more quickly in the new year? What lessons do you draw from this as a minister? The rivers were less wide. There were also problems with the locks, especially for inland waterway bargeers who are trapped by the low water levels. The drought hit them directly in their wallet. The inland waterway freighters were difficult and could not be optimally loaded. The volume decreased significantly and the supply stopped. The channels became narrower and narrower. I think you could jump over the IJssel, which I saw this summer, with a wrist stick. The congestion in the port did not help inland waterway transport either. If all these problems have been solved now, I ask the other minister. There was also salinisation because rivers simply drained less water, allowing the salty seawater to enter and gain the upper hand. In short, there was something going on and there had to be intervention. The water boards, Rijkswaterstaat and others involved deserve a plume in this. I do have long-term concerns. Earlier, I asked questions about the financial position of the waterboards, especially the bodies that have to protect us from the whims of nature, in this case a shortage of water. How does the Minister see the role of the water boards in this? How does she look back on that? I also ask the Minister to what extent there was control and to what extent it could have been or should have been adjusted. What have we learned from recent experiences? What is to be expected in the future? Were all the measures implemented the right ones? Because if you're gonna do something, it doesn't mean everything's gonna work out. However, it is important that we remain alert at all times to the level of water and intervene when necessary. So what are the learning points? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u33	Thank you. Mr. De Groot, you were already through your interruptions, but you just had a very short half, so let's move on, one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u34	Thank you, Chairman, for your coulance. I am well aware that Mr Dijkstra is also concerned about the future. I know he even had a skylight built. Maybe he can explain that. One of his questions was whether the water boards are ready for the future. Could you explain your own views on this? They now have a more general administration. Is the way decisions are taken still of this time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u35	I think so. I believe that the waterboards will or should be able to meet all the challenges. At least that's what they've shown in the past. They will also have to show that in the future. If there are new challenges coming towards them, I want to know if they are sufficiently equipped to deal with them. I still have concerns. We have enormous ambitions in terms of water safety. We see that the market is attracted and that tenders are more expensive. And resources are limited. Soon there will be waterboard elections. I do not want projects to be postponed or the burden on citizens to rise enormously. We will always have to find a balance in that. I am very curious to see how the Minister looks at the waterboards and what lessons have been learned from last year's dossier.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u36	I have one more point, one which I know Mr Dijkstra has been concerned about and has asked questions about: the financial position of the waterboards. We understand that not every waterboard has a general chamber of account, a critical club that takes a look at the finances. Do we have the VVD on our side when we actually think that every waterboard should have such a beautiful controlling club, looking or being neatly dealt with?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u37	I think it would be very useful for a waterboard, which spends a lot of money, to be critical about millions of tonnes and to assess whether what it does is legitimate and effective. If there's any way a math room can help with that, I'd be happy to. I'm surprised they wouldn't all do that already.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u38	There's another afterburner from Mrs. Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u39	That skylight. I was very curious about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u40	All of us, I think. But you dare to ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u41	I went to live in the Betuwe 20 years ago, in Rivierenland, between the rivers, right between the Waal and the Rhine. I had a house built and thought, "If it ever gets high, how high does it get here?" In my case, it turned out to be six meters. I said, you gotta get out of here. So I had a skylight, a Velux window, placed in the attic to escape if there was ever a high tide. In fact, I placed a flagpole and attached a boat to it. Fortunately, this has never happened before. By the way, my house will wash away at high tide, because it is wood skeleton construction. So, in retrospect, it was all unnecessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u42	Mrs. Bromet, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u43	I like this extra, because fifteen years ago I made a movie with my dad called "The Water Coming." In that movie, my mom suggests putting a boat in the attic. So I thought, "Nice that other people have that thought, too."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u44	This is a funny story, but of course there is a serious thought behind it. With me on the Betuwe, in Rivierenland, 200,000 people live. We saw how critical it was about ten kilometers away from Ochten Ochten Ochten Ochten Ochten Ochten Ochten Ochten Ochten Ochten Ochten Ochten Ochten Ochten Ochten Ochten Ochten Ochten Ochten Ochten Ochten Ochten Ochten Ochten Ochten Ochten Okten Okten Okten Okten Okten Okten Okten Okten Okten Okten Okten Okten Okten Okten Okten Okten Okten Okten Okten Since then, we have also learned a lot of things and dealt with a lot of things. We have done all kinds of projects to strengthen dike and in the framework of Space for the River. We can never rule out risks. We really need to be aware of the power of the water and also, as in last summer, of the faults when you have too little water. This is how we must continue. In that everyone has their own responsibility. We also take the responsibility we feel here in the House of Representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u45	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Futselaar of the SP for his contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For someone who has been soaked several times in the past rather wet February weekend, it was time to swallow to think back to the very dry summer, which we are talking about. However, the persistent high temperatures and the absence of the rain in the Netherlands, which is often self-evident, have spooked the country. That raises the question: how drought proof are we? We are very good at handling too much water, but a shortage is by nature perhaps sometimes a little more difficult for us. There are two sectors which have clearly suffered a great deal from the drought: shipping and agriculture. Apart from that, at first sight the drought seems to be largely manageable. The Netherlands was a bit more in the shade or ate a bit more outside, like Mrs Bromet, and that went on. But we have to ask ourselves the following questions. Is this a one-time exception? Is this gonna be the new normal? And above all: how well prepared are we for this kind of thing and perhaps even longer periods of drought? How should we prepare ourselves for this? The shipping had trouble with the low water level. That has been referred to before. Full loading was not possible for a long time. What is the time when we have to find that there are supply problems that are really putting the Dutch economy and perhaps even things like fuel and food supplies at risk? How close did we get to that critical border and to what extent should we now prepare ourselves for it? We see that agriculture has had quite a hard time. At what point do we say that it is no longer acceptable for our food production and that we need to take additional measures? We saw that the groundwater level was too low and that salinisation became a problem. Fortunately we can say that we have not been short of drinking water, but we did see here and there that the pressure was starting to drop. Shows we've been shaving along the edge. How much longer should the drought have lasted before we said: now we must also reduce drinking water for households? So the key question is: do we have our infrastructure in order to be able to take the hit in such cases, or worse cases, in future in extreme situations? Has, for example, been identified at which periods of drought what effects will occur and is there a plan to act in different scenarios? What is the situation in the different regions of the Netherlands, which are also very different? Then there are the specific questions. Can we say that our national groundwater reserve is still adequate? Do we need additional strategic stocks? If you find that it's restless in the world with oil and you think it might be good to build some oil reserves, you should do it most of all. If you find that it may be starting to get a little restless with water, you might need to build up groundwater reserves. To what extent is there permanent damage due to this summer's drought? I am thinking mainly of nature and I am looking at the minister concerned. And to what extent should it be restored? Have certain species been affected? What effect has the summer had on subsidence and the problem of soil decline? Several people have already referred to the peatlands. A number of measures have been taken specifically for agriculture, including the longer run-off of manure. I find that reasonable in times of extreme weather, but how often do you have to have a dry summer before you can say: this is not an extreme weather anymore? We will have to think about that. From what point can you no longer insist that it is an exception? Because then it is no longer justified to take additional measures. Mr. Chairman. There was some discussion here about whether or not you can blame climate change. I want to be honest. If this had been the most average summer ever and for example Mr. Geurts had said "where are you with your climate change?', I would have said yes, but you can't use one summer as a benchmark. But if you look at the trend, you will see that things are coming towards us in the Netherlands. Weather patterns are hard to predict, but we know it's probably getting more extreme. This means that we will have to be prepared both for drought and for wetness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u47	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn, who is 50PLUS. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last summer we got a taste of what can happen to us during prolonged drought. We have already anticipated this by including climate adaptation in the Delta programme and investing in it. The heat stress in cities must not be underestimated. We have seen the plan of the city of The Hague, and it is good that all municipalities are going to do stress tests. Then we clearly have what needs to be done. Can the Minister indicate if everything is still going according to plan? Mr. Chairman. Possibly last summer's heat has also made people more aware of life in that heat for 365 days a year. What does that do to you and what does it do to nature and agriculture? That is why, as ambassador to SDG 6, I am proud of the Blue Deal: safe and sufficient water in 40 river basins in the world, that is what we, the Netherlands, are going to achieve. Can the Minister tell us the state of play on the Blue Deal? It was a nice summer; the colleagues said it too. People enjoyed the beach and took a fresh dip, nice. But the downside was mentioned as well. Suddenly we were no longer allowed to spray gardens and the skippers were seriously disturbed by the low water levels in the Rhine basin. The drought can affect dams by reducing groundwater levels. The salination in the IJsselmeer was also mentioned. These are all effects that we paid far too little attention to, until last summer everything suddenly became urgent. The urgency of climate adaptation is thus unmistakable. Can we make further efforts to store water and reduce the heat sensitivity of cities with unabated efforts? More green helps. Think of Operation Stonebreaking: rock out, plant in. Planting more trees and storing water after a heavy rain shower are increasingly important. I have seen beautiful examples in Rotterdam, where under the floor of the square of the central station is an ingenious system to store and gradually drain water. This approach therefore deserves broad follow-up. Mr. Chairman. I have questions for the Minister. What were the learning points of last summer? Have there been any critical moments? Can we even better prepare for another persistent drought? Where are the odds? What's the damage to nature? Mr Schouten's letter of 23 November states that the extent of the permanent damage cannot be determined until spring. Can you say anything about that already? What damage has shipping suffered? What damage has been caused to agriculture and horticulture by the drought? What are we going to do about this in concrete terms? We are pleased that the drinking water supply has been maintained, with some reduced water pressure here and there. That has already been mentioned. For next time, a number of things are important. One of them has not yet been mentioned: the role of drinking water companies in crisis-shuffling. It has not yet been secured and it should be, given the importance of the availability of sufficient drinking water. It is also important to consult with neighbouring countries, particularly Germany and Belgium, because of the supply via Meuse and Rhine. It is also appropriate to consider making discharge permits flow-dependent to ensure water quality. 50PLUS has mentioned this before. I would like a response from the Minister on these points. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I am proud of our waterboards, which managed everything well. Despite drought, clean, clear drinking water came out of the tap every day. No quay was torn or collapsed despite the low groundwater level. On March 20th we choose our people in the waterboards. It's about something. I hope that the turnout is high, in the interests of the waterboards, and that it reflects that interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u49	I certainly agree with that last remark about a high turnout. I would like to comment on the following. In the event of interruption, Mrs Van Brenn, on behalf of 50PLUS, just referred to the accounting committees. I thought she'd come back to that in her contribution, but I missed that. Is Mrs Van Brenk aware that more than half of the waterboards I think we have 21 of them have an accounting committee?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u50	Sure. I also know that some have none and that 50PLUS members are seriously lobbying for them to get to all waterboards.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u51	In view of the interruption, I thought Mrs Van Brenk would come back to that in her contribution, or come forward with a motion. Is it not wise to leave this to the waterboards and not dictate it from The Hague?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u52	I know that Mr Dijkstra had a problem with the financial situation of water boards and that he asked questions about them. That's why I thought I'd bring it up here. This is definitely a point of all our people in the waterboards. I do not dictate anything from The Hague, but from 50PLUS members all over the country we will certainly argue that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u53	Mr Geurts for a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u54	Just one more small point. The waterboard that Mr Dijkstra has asked questions about has a Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u55	At least that's good, but they're a lot of money short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u56	I give the floor to Mr Van Aalst of the PVV for his contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The debate we are having here today is characterised by one great lie. This is because climate change has led to a dry summer. Before the gospel prophecies of the green religion rush back to the interrupting microphone to preach one by one their politically correct dogmas, I would like to remind them first of all of the facts. Mr. Chairman. 2018 was not the driest year in the Netherlands. In fact, 2018 isn't even in the top five. The five driest summers in our country took place between 1911 and 1976, on the basis of the precipitation deficit measured by the KNMI over the months April to September. The KNMI itself notes that the drought we experienced in 2018 is not a result of climate change. This drought is the result of a high air pressure area over southern Scandinavia, as just happened. In the last century there has been no increase in the occurrence of this air pressure pattern. In fact, the KNMI speaks of a decrease. There is also no trend to observe that there has been less rain in the last 112 years. So, chairman, what the left church is doing, with the hypocritical virtue liberals of D66 first, is creating doom scenarios for legitimizing their own political agenda. The legitimate concern about the impact of dry summers on our population and our economy is falsely hijacked by the climate fetishists. The PVV therefore calls for a debate on this drought without using it as an argument for the insane climate plans of this cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u58	I'm thinking, when's he gonna come up with the real problem? Were there any problems with the supply of drinking water last summer? Were there any supply problems? Have farmers, farmers, been affected? Has it affected inland waterway transport? Were there advice given not to water your garden? Surely you cannot deny that there have been problems last summer due to the drought, whether it is due to the climate or not? You have to address these problems and come up with solutions to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u59	My colleague from the VVD is just a little early, because my next cup is right: problems surrounding the drought. I indicated in the first part that it is bizarre that they link it to climate change, so there is no such thing at all. That we have had problems with drought and that we must do something about it, certainly! We agree on that. I will come back to that in the future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u60	I'll listen to you with a lot of attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u61	Listening very well to the PVV seems very sensible, even in other debates. Maybe the VVD will learn something from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u62	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u63	Impact definitely has the drought. Our agriculture, our livestock farmers, our industry and our inland waterways all notice the consequences in their daily work and in their wallets. The PVV stands firmly behind these entrepreneurs and takes these problems seriously. It is therefore important that the Drought Policy Table, which is now set up, should come up with recommendations that can be implemented in practice. The PVV would like to be able to take measures for the next dry summer that address the unforeseen problems of 2018, such as the fact that more groundwater was extracted than was foreseen. These measures can make it possible to combat the salinisation of the IJsselmeer or the Amsterdam-Rhine Canal more effectively in the future, to ensure, in the run-up to the summer months, the storage of extra fresh water, to better identify risk areas for dry periods and to ensure a good supply of fresh water to these areas. The PVV calls for the upcoming process to focus on these factors and to use the knowledge and expertise of the parties involved. We will keep our finger on the pulse in the coming period when it comes to the elaboration of the recommendation of the Drought Policy Table. The PVV would also like the Ministry to respond to the appeal of the Association for Energy, Environment and Water to provide the sector with more clarity about the displacement series. Companies using fresh water need to know where they are on the priority list of their use. Finally, Mr President. Fortunately, in the dry summer of 2018, the drinking water supply was not in danger. The salinisation of water in the west has been countered by the supply of fresh water from the Amsterdam-Rhine Canal. Also there are no dikes succumbed to the drought. I would therefore like to end with a great compliment to Rijkswaterstaat, the water boards, our water companies and the entire water management that has fought this for each other. They will continue to be able to count on the support of the PVV to ensure that our country is able to fight the negative effects of drought even more effectively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u64	Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Stoffer of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u65	Mr. Chairman. It was indeed a year of extremes: a very wet beginning and a very dry summer. Now I'm from an environment where you can't complain about the weather. With us is the saying: Whoever grumbles on the weather, grumbles on the Lord. We do not, but it is important to prepare ourselves for periods when it is wet and for periods when it is dry. I want to make three points tonight. That is, firstly, agriculture. When I got here, I traded agriculture for I&W. I thought I'd never have to talk about it, but it's gonna happen tonight. I would like to talk about the crisis talks and also about the Drought Policy Table, which Mr Van Aalst also spoke about a moment ago. Maybe that's because we ate together tonight. It wasn't the policy table, but it was a good table. Mr. Chairman. Agriculture. I think it is quite clear that many farmers and dairy farmers have been deeply affected by the drought. The extreme drought also makes it very difficult to meet all kinds of rules and conditions as a farmer, for example for the cultivation of catch crops. If that is the case again in the coming years, we would at least like to call for sufficient flexibility for farmers and also for them to be able to clarify quickly any changes to the rules. It's very good to just clarify that. Then there is another point which came to our attention and which I am sure the Minister knows but is painful. In Flanders, the drought was declared an agricultural disaster for which farmers can be compensated. We heard examples of farmers on the Belgian side of the border who received a few tonnes of compensation, while farmers in the Netherlands received zero euros. We believe that this is an undesirable situation and an uneven playing field. I wonder how the Minister looks at that. As far as we are concerned, we need to tackle and improve the broad weather insurance that Mr Geurts has just spoken about. We must also work towards broadening the risk instruments. We are in favour of investing in practical research. Farmers obviously have a lot of experience in how to handle wetness, but they need to gain more experience in how to handle drought and how to retain water in the ground during that period. Mr. Chairman. The crisis talks went very well. All the compliments that have just been given for the discussions and for how it has been done, we would also like to express our appreciation to the State of the Netherlands, the water authorities and all the others who have been involved in this. It is very nice that the drinking water companies have also joined in, but we understand that this was not really a standard situation and that it happened because the situation practically asked for it. Our question is whether a standard protocol will be established in future if these situations occur again, whereby drinking water companies will be directly invited. Then there's the problem. Of course, the main water system was very much looked at, but the real problem actually started on the high sandy soils. There it started much earlier than in the rest of the Netherlands. My question is that next time, when it starts there, perhaps we should try to scale up something national instead of something regional. I'd like to hear the Minister's opinion on that. Finally, the Drought Policy Table, which has just been mentioned. We are very pleased that the Minister has set up that policy table. We hope, for example, that there will also be a review of the plans for salinisation and that we will see whether the displacement series has worked properly, particularly as regards the position of agriculture in that area, which is now very much behind. Is that desirable in all cases, even in the future? I would also like to mention shipping. He's been in my heart my whole life. Shipping has had a lot to do with the drought. My question is whether it is possible to look with primacy at obstacles to locks and at the hard layer in the Waal near Nijmegen in order to prevent shipping from continuing to run into this kind of bump in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u66	Thank you. That brings us to the end of the first term of office. The directors have indicated that they need about ten minutes to prepare themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u67	I would ask Members to take their place again and I am happy to give the floor to the Minister. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It has indeed been some time since we felt that we were in the middle of the drought. It has also been a very special period. I think many of us shared the surprise that we could experience such an extremely long period of drought. When I arrived as a minister and had water in my wallet, I was mainly working on what we have a lot of experience with in the Netherlands: water safety. I was working on the water level descents, which I tried to reach by the rivers when there was a high supply from the rivers. And of course we also have a lot of experience with water that is no longer completely clean: we have discussed medicine residues in the water and all kinds of problems around too dirty water. Too much and too dirty, we were already on top of that. But now we're dealing with too little. And not a little bit. It was a really long period, which meant that we had to start the crisis talks. And each time we ended up in a scaling-up, which we hadn't thought possible in advance. Many of you have already mentioned it: fortunately we have very skilled people in the Netherlands in the water sector, from our own ministry to Rijkswaterstaat, to all over the waterboards, the drinking water companies and the provinces. There are people who know things everywhere. This has also ensured that this has not been a crisis experience for the average Dutchman, despite the fact that we had for a long time a crisis organisation in the legs that was really needed. Before that, I would like to congratulate all those people who have worked so hard on this. I visited them once this summer with a large number of muffins to put a heart under their belt, when they were meeting again. Those people have done really, really good work. We have also noted that a lot of measures proved to be working well. These measures had been devised in recent years, but they were never needed before. For example, the small-scale water supply to the West of the Netherlands. This afternoon I went back to Friesland to make nice appointments at the IJsselmeer. Last year, of course, we could have made the agreement on the broad agenda for flexible level management on the IJsselmeer. Those people who were already working on this with a vision have taken it well. The smart water management of joint water managers has also paid off. Those are lessons that we have left over to the previous dry period. The last extremely dry summer was in 1976. Some of you have already mentioned that. But what were the special situations we ran into? Mrs. Van Brenk asked about that, too. Weren't there any unexpected things? There were indeed, because it took so long and was so extreme. I could never have imagined in advance what we should have done this summer with regard to salinisation in the IJsselmeer. Of course, all kinds of innovative things have been done. Apart from that we often spout, salt bubbles have been flushed and a bubble screen has been placed. But the ultimate thing we had to put in was the tankers. We had to charter them, because at Andijk the intake point for drinking water came dangerously close to a chloride content and salt content that we would not find pleasant. We never got into that extreme situation, but we were close that we should have landed fresh water by ship in order to secure it in the same way. We were able to take measures in time, but we had to take those measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u69	Would that have been foreseeable, could it have been taken action earlier, or could we have seen it coming sooner when it has come again? It was really ad hoc. I think it's better if we see it coming. How could that be?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u70	That is one of the points we are going to look at at the Dryness Policy Table: where did the critical points arise? For example, you can also see these with regard to groundwater, on which you have also made a number of comments. We are going to try to address each other at that table what you can do about getting the salt of the IJsselmeer before. We have been able to control it now; we have not had to appeal to dune water resources in North Holland. But these are things that you would like to look at in depth, especially with experts, to see how we can do even better in the future. We've seen salinization in several places. On the one hand, the water supply was getting less and less, with all the consequences. On the other hand, the problem increased by reducing the back pressure of the fresh water against the salty sea water, which threatened to bring the salty water with zoouttons much more inland. Those are new situations. We need to look closely at how we want to deal with this in the future. Some of you have asked questions about the displacement series: should you not give further clarity on certain points? For example, I can mention a lot of subjects that we say should be properly examined at the Drought Policy Table with all the experts. Along with the evaluation we make of the entire process, I will send it to your Chamber. We will, of course, address the recommendations and the measures that emerge from the Dryness Policy Table so that we can discuss this with each other. It is indeed also an important part of the Spatial Adaptation Delta Plan, on which a large number of Members of Parliament have made comments. There is a legislative change in the process. I am not looking in the direction of Mr Geurts, who makes it possible for the spatial adaptation resources to be made available when we have later amended the Water Act. We have also made funds available for the first two years to get pilot projects off the ground and to spread the knowledge needed more. Then we hope to have the legislative change in place, so that several projects can be financed from it. This was a general introduction, in which I have already touched a few points. I should now like to look at the specific questions in order of the speaker. I shall begin with the first speaker, Mr De Groot. He specifically mentioned that we should explicitly look at the integral river management. That's one of the lessons we learned this summer. At the High Water Protection Programme. The name says it already... we were very focused on the maximum water level you want. One of the things that will have to be addressed in integrated river management is a minimum that you want to keep, to prevent salinity, but certainly also to keep the rivers navigable, I say to all the MPs who love inland navigation. That is another way of looking, not only at too much water, high water, but also at low water, the navigability and everything that comes with it. It is not just about navigability, by the way. Some of you have also asked questions about what it does with the quality of the water. Well, we also saw this summer, for example, that it is about the entire river basin. If you get a smaller amount of water from Germany, dioxane, a substance that is in the water by the German industry, is present in higher concentrations than is normally the case. We've monitored that well and it hasn't gotten into the danger zone, but it's a matter you need to keep an eye on. Mrs Van Brenk asked whether we should not look at the discharges, because they are flow dependent. That is also a subject that we, of course, are studying very well with all the experts at that Policy Table Dryness to see if there is anything needed and in what cases it could be improved. So lessons from Space for the River take us very well, but we also see if that same nature is also suffering from drought. However, Mr Schouten will of course say more about nature. Mr De Groot has also asked specific questions about the waterboards. I have just included them in my compliments for all the extra work that has been done this summer. I also notice that the waterboards are already working seriously on preparing and preventing 'what if'. No one has that guarantee and no one knows whether or not we're going to have another dry summer. I very much agree with the speaker, Mr Futselaar, who said: whether it is dry or wet, in both cases you must be prepared for it. That's definitely what we're gonna do. You can see that the waterboards... Mr Geurts gave examples of this: a balloon in a diver or a plan in a ditch. Everyone is encouraged to retain as much water as possible, especially in those areas where groundwater is far from up to scratch. So the waterboards are doing a very good job on that. The waterboards also have an important role to play in the climate adaptation. Mr De Groot rightly pointed that out. The stress tests carried out by municipalities will, of course, also have to be coordinated with the water boards. Mr Schouten will deal with the peat meadow areas in due course, because this is more linked to agricultural use. By the way, let's not forget that this is also linked to nature, but it belongs to the same colleague! But we also have to remember that the problem of soil decline is of course also taking place in urban areas, where you have problems with pile rot, saggings and so on. Soil decline is happening throughout the Netherlands. You may also all have been watching the programme Heel Holland Bakt. Well "Hel Holland Zakt" is also a one-liner that can sit between everyone's ears, because we see that in all possible places. So we have to look at this very widely, not just at the agricultural sector, because we will have to work on it in the urban area as well. Back to Mr De Groot's questions on the waterboards. You have also, Mr De Groot, asked questions about the composition of the boards of the water boards. Specifically, you were talking about the secure seats. I would actually like to come back to that in the run-up to the elections of the waterboards in 2023. Now they will be very soon, namely on 20 March. The pleas of your colleagues in the Chamber to vote above all, I agree, because it is really about something. It's not just about those dry feet, it's about a lot more. It's also about water pollution. And again, the role that water boards play in climate adaptation is also a very important one. Waste water treatment is another important point, which everyone has to find out about. So if we prepare ourselves well for these next elections, I can also take advantage of the opinion of the Water Advisory Committee on this matter. That committee makes an evaluation of the waterboard system and that is also part of the system of the seats that have been secured. Then there's the own-initiative paper. In it, Mr De Groot asks the question, together with Mrs Bromet, which is not entirely surprising, given your joint activities, why the waterboards do not decide to set up higher polls. Do I want to talk to them about that? The province is, of course, primarily responsible for spatial planning and job allocation, including the distinction between housing, agriculture and nature. Next, it is the task of the waterboard to facilitate the socially desired functions as best as possible with level decisions. Waterboards do so by all means available to them. They must do so at socially acceptable costs and in conflicting interests they must look for an optimum. There are, of course, political choices to be made. This has once again been said how important democracy is in these waterboards and how important it is to vote for them. You're asking me to talk about that. Of course I am prepared to discuss this; it is part of the ongoing discussions we have in the Water Steering Group. We are constantly in consultation with all the partners involved and, moreover, with research institutes which look very strongly at this. Then we are talking about Deltares, then we are talking about agricultural university Wageningen; all the parties who know about it think with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u71	Have you answered all of Mr De Groot's questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u72	I think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u73	Then Mrs Bromet has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u74	This affects a subject that I have touched on in my contribution, namely the absence of the Empire when it comes to the problem of soil decline. I hear the Minister say again that it is up to the provinces and the waterboards. But if we look for example at the concept of climate change agreement, in which there is a great challenge for the peat meadow area, it seems to me that there is also a directional role for the government. What is the Minister's idea about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u75	That we agree with that. There was also a motion by Mr Geurts in which we were asked to appoint a coordinating director for soil decline. That is what we, as a cabinet, are going to do. Interdepartmental consultations are also taking place at the moment. This is not just between the two of us; the Ministry of EZK is also part of it, as is the Minister of BZK, which is involved from the point of view of housing and the problems surrounding foundations. So we are discussing it and we will report to the Chamber before the summer recess how we get there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u76	Thank you to the Minister for replying. I fully agree with the fantastic crisis management. I'll get back to you on that. My question concerns the following. You say we're going to take the lessons from Space for the River. That's very good. It is more than just navigability; you rightly emphasized it. But you also refer the question of nature to your colleague of LNV. But the nice thing about your job is that it can help nature, also to keep the ships going. This was already shown in Space for the River. So you also have a very important share of nature in your portfolio. So I'd like another reaction to that. My second question concerns the peat meadow areas. Actually, I have the same question there. Nature does not belong to others; you are at the head of the waterboard system. There has been a policy that has considerable disadvantages. You say you can take it with you in the conversations that are already going on. But that level fixation is definitely a theme.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u77	I certainly did not want to pass on the question to my colleague, because the word 'nature' used in it. That is absolutely not the case. If you are talking about integrated river management, then of course there is also the natural interest in it. Then there are also tourism and recreation. Then there's agriculture in that too. I just wanted to name it. When it comes to the level-driven drainage, that is more the expertise of Mr Schouten, so we are still maintaining that distribution. Well, at least the field of expertise. Then let's put it this way carefully. Then I have questions from Mr Geurts. A very broad question that was later asked by more Members of Parliament in a different form is what is really going to happen with preparations for the coming summer. Rijkswaterstaat, the water boards, all parties are already busy working on it. A first meeting has also been planned to re-establish the crisis structure if necessary. The measures from 2018 that have worked well are all being taken up again, but there is also, of course, explicit work on scenarios. You have asked a specific question about the NHI, the hydrological instruments we have. I can reassure you on that, too. Based on the measurement data and model calculations with the NHI and the knowledge of the experts, we now have a good picture of the rural situation of groundwater, which we did not actually have at the beginning of this crisis. That wasn't so easy to bring out everywhere. That was one of the first things we found out during the crisis. In particular, the groundwater levels in the east in the high sandy soils are still very low. That's been shared before. They're just not the way we'd like to see them again. Despite the fact that it has been raining quite a bit lately, perhaps to the sorrow of some, the expectation is that it will not all be restored by 1 April. This is, of course, mainly dependent on the amount of precipitation that is to come in the near future. Some people say, "Oh, it's snowed so much in the Alps. Isn't that the solution?" No, that's not the solution, because that's the water that gets us into the rivers and we're so focused on getting it out nice and fast. Despite all the good projects around Space for the River, I think we will also have to think all over our country about space for the canal, space for the ditch and mention it all. We're not just here with those rivers. Will the Netherlands cooperate with neighbouring countries? That was also a question from Mr Geurts and a number of others. I also believe of Mrs Van Brenk. That's definitely important. We had a government dialogue with North Rhine-Westphalia. There I have with colleague Hendrik Wüst... From his office in Düsseldorf you look at the Rhine. There the low water level was still visible at that time. Of course, we have discussions on this, not only in that river basin of the Rhine, but also wider. There too, of course, they have struggled with the same problem. There were even videos on YouTube that people on certain parts of the Rhine could just walk across the street, which of course wasn't meant to happen. They've had major problems supplying the gas stations. We have also seen this in a number of places in the east of the Netherlands. The water is the main source of this. You have seen that inland waterways could carry less and less cargo. At some point that became urgent, because you only have a limited number of inland waterway vessels. You can't say "oh, we'll just do that by road," because we don't have that many tankers either. That is another example in which we have seen not only in the Netherlands, but also in other countries that you are running against the border. I know that many of you are deeply concerned about inland waterway transport. I think we can learn another lesson from this. We still have a huge construction assignment to do in the Netherlands. It takes a lot of bulk transport, just from sand, gravel and all kinds of building materials. Fortunately, 80% of bulk transport in the Netherlands is about water. I say 'happy' because if we can't do that anymore and we have to do all that bulk transport by road, we have a huge problem with each other. So in addition to the ambitions that we almost or perhaps entirely share Chamberwide in order to bring as much transport as possible from the road to the water and to the rail, we really must continue to facilitate it for that reason. Sufficient navigability and a sufficiently high water level are also extremely important for this. I therefore very much agree with your Chamber's call for this to be done together with neighbouring countries. Then the level drainage. Mr Geurts says that this is at least an important tool. I think that Mr Schouten will say a little more about this, but we also think it is important that further knowledge be gained. It is, of course, an important instrument. Does the Minister share the idea that groundwater levels will be even lower next year? That could be, if we don't happen to have a very wet summer. Of course we start now in the East of the Netherlands and in certain parts of Brabant and Limburg probably immediately with a delay. So if we had another dry summer, we'd be lagging behind if we didn't change our policies. Of course, we are going to try the water boards already doing so to hold more water so as not to cause the shortage to continue. No one can look into that glass ball, so it's just the wisest thing to do and to use everything we can to try to hold on to that water as much as possible. Mr Dijkstra has actually asked a few questions along these lines.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u78	There is another interruption by Mr Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u79	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I had also asked, perhaps somewhat overflowingly, when the assessments that the waterboards are doing will become available over the 2018 drought period. The specific question is whether the Minister thinks that we can discuss this with her in May or June in the forthcoming AO Water Conference.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u80	I dare promise Mr Geurts that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u81	Thank you. The AO Water is on June 20th, I hear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u82	I think we can do that. To be honest, I just want to have them much sooner, because then we are way too far in the season. So I really think we should have them a lot sooner. So for that AO Water, guaranteed. Other than... We're just gonna do it. Mr Dijkstra and others asked what kind of action there are and what kind of action to think that will come from the Drought Policy Table. There's a lot of appointments in there that we're really gonna tighten up. Those are agreements that are not new in themselves, but where you see what you can do to help the net a bit further. The displacement sequence has worked well, but we may be able to make an even clearer demarcation. For example, with the industry: are you in category 4 or 3 with process water and what exactly is process water? We will also continue to develop these more stringent definitions. The decision on the national water distribution lies with Rijkwaterstaat, at regional level with the water boards. That is another answer to a question from Mr Dijkstra. There's been good cooperation. I think that everything went well there, but the crisis structure is also being evaluated. We will come back to that too, because we will also have that assessed externally, also in a communicative sense, in order to see if things might be better in a future period. To mention one example: the calls made to people to use water for economical purposes. I don't know if we can be entirely satisfied with the results. At first it seemed that people were using less water, but if we were going to correct for the number of Dutch people on holiday, then I think we should have another look at whether we might have to bring that up even more intrusively in the future. We're all gonna take a serious look at each other and see if we can do better. Are waterboards equipped to deal with that? I think so. It's not just the waterboards; we'll have to do it again, just like last summer. If there is enough expertise somewhere in a country to do it right, it is in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u83	I agree with the Minister on that last point. I would like to respond to that request for people to use less water: do not wash your car, do not spray your garden anymore, so that the available water can benefit the people who need it very much, for example the farmers. Now I know that waterboards were going to maintain that, too. It had huge fines on it, I read, if you were going to water your garden during the day, when that wasn't supposed to happen. What does the Minister think about that? Did that work too? Can you reflect on those fines? Have they actually been distributed? Is there any maintenance? I believe it was €1,500. That's pretty scary, but if they're not handed out, then it's nothing. How are we in that as a government?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u84	That was not about the private households, because they generally spray their gardens with drinking water. We didn't recommend doing that, but it didn't include the fines. It is much more about the general awareness and things that you can sometimes distribute, such as the shower gauges. I don't know which one of you has had long-term adolescents in the house. Then you might as well say something like, "Do you have to do that for that long?" Maybe we'll just have to do things like that more often. My kids are out the door by now, so I'm not gonna get any trouble with this at home. As far as the measures are concerned, I have already indicated that we are still in the process of flushing the IJsselmeer. We need to see if we can do that even better in other ways. We are closing cracks at sluices and shelters in the Afsluitdijk. There's much better monitoring. We also ask the waterboards to release as little salt as possible. Beams are placed in thrusters. It's too much to mention. Mrs Van Brenk came up with a completely different subject: the state of play on the Blue Deal. You were right to say that you were proud of that. What do we notice in concrete terms this year? On World Water Day 2018 it has indeed been signed. On 7 November, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was able to issue the grant decision to the Union of Water Councils on behalf of my Ministry. A large number of projects are being carried out with water boards in the Netherlands and abroad. 40 river basins are working on this. You mentioned that, too. The water boards are currently working on concrete project proposals. 11 proposals have already been submitted on 1 February. The second batch will follow on 1 March. I notice there's a great enthusiasm for it under the waterboards. There is a lot of ambition with a focus on climate change and result-oriented work. In March, after that second round, we will take a decision on the proposals. The intention is to formally start implementation on World Water Day in March. We will inform you more about this. The flow-dependent discharge permits are one of the points included in the Drought Policy Table for research. Then the accounting function at the water boards. I have perhaps not yet seen this today, and I have sent an answer to Mr Dijkstra's questions about the financial position of the Water Authority Riversland. In this I indicated that most water boards have a chamber of account function or a similar body that advises the general administration. I think it is up to the democratic representatives in the waterboards to take the necessary measures in those waterboards where this may not yet be properly regulated. Whether it's specifically a accounting room or another function, it has to be secured in a certain way. Mrs Van Brenk specifically asked about the position of drinking water companies during the drought. She's right. We had them at the table last summer, just for very practical reasons, because drinking water is a very important basic condition. We'll take that into account in the evaluation. We gave that as a point of interest. Honestly, I can't imagine saying that we don't do that anymore. It worked well. We're gonna take that off the record for the whole evaluation. Mrs Van Brenk asked if the stress tests were going according to plan. I can't look all the way in from all the congregations, but when they meet me, they all say they're working on it very hard. So I have good hope that it really is. With Princess Day, we will report on the state of play in the Delta Programme. In any case, I notice that it is really between the ears, not only water pollution but also the subject of heat stress, which has rightly been mentioned. There is also attention to that. Exactly what damage has been caused is what the Drought Policy Table is going to map, both for agriculture, nature, drinking water, water managers, industry, energy supply and urban areas as well as for recreation. We're trying to get a good overview of that. A distinction is made between the direct effects of the drought due, for example, to loss of production or damage and the indirect economic consequences. We will also inform the Chamber about this if we send the overall picture with the outcome of the Drought Policy Table. Then I come to Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u85	First of all, an interruption by Mrs Van Brenn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u86	Let me get this straight. At the policy table everyone sits at the table: the water boards, Rijkswaterstaat, the Ministry, the drinking water sector. About everyone who's involved is sitting there at the table. We get that whole evaluation well before the AO Water and then we see everything that comes out of it. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u87	Sure. I can add that we are being validated by scientific experts that what is being discussed at that Policy Table Drought is also soundly academically substantiated and that it is true. Mr Futselaar asked questions about the future of drinking water supply. He asked whether drinking water companies should not identify strategic groundwater resources. This is also the subject of study, unfortunately it is no different. We're working on that. It is also an action point from the Structural Vision Underground. That's where it's been. The goal is, of course, to be future-robust, to be prepared, also for increasing water demand through economic growth and possibly climate change. The identification of strategic groundwater resources is a consideration that will be addressed. Do we have the drinking water infrastructure in order? That was another question you asked. In general, that is the case, but there are, of course, a number of points of interest. I call you the intake point at Andijk in the IJsselmeer. That is where we really need to see if we will have to take further action. I have a nice screen in my room where besides the traffic jams, images of the influx into rivers and the salt content are constantly passing. Then I still saw one small red dot, which was only once in a while in the green in the last few weeks. That's still the intake point at Andijk, which we're worried about. So that is not only monitored by me, but above all by the experts. How much longer could we have lasted with the drought? Probably for a long time, because we just have very large stocks, but of course that varies from region to region. It also depends on drinking water consumption. That was, of course, extremely high because of the heat. You're vaporizing more, too, so that's not so crazy in itself. Normally we use 120 liters per person per day. That's an impressive number when you hear it like that. In the summer it was sometimes up to 160 liters. So there really is a lot more water consumed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u88	I asked a question about that, too. I asked how the Minister intends to reduce drinking water consumption. I was also a little triggered by a remark that made them just a little bit passive about watering private gardens. Actually, of course, you're not supposed to do that with drinking water. I've got a pump in the ditch myself. I would say: wear that out too, because if we use drinking water to water the plants, we will go through it very quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u89	Well, not everyone lives by a ditch, so that's another problem. And you don't want people to just pump up groundwater. But I think that the broad awareness is a justified point. Use rainwater. People can do a lot of things, of course. This is also something that we can do a great deal about throughout the climate adaptation agenda and the stress test. Get more green in the cities. Get those tiles out of your garden and make sure the water can pass. Put the rainton down. Make that green roof. People can do a lot of things. I think it is just as much fun to focus more attention on that in the years to come. How well prepared are we for even longer dry periods? Of course, we have been working on this for some time now with the Delta programme Freshwater. And again, the Policy Table Dryness is going to take advantage of the new insights. Will this become the new normal, Mr Futselaar asks. If I knew, I'd report it to you, but we just don't know. The precipitation deficit is uncertain. The KNMI also works with scenarios with significant bandwidths. We do see that the glaciers are getting smaller and that our rivers are becoming more and more rainrivers, so they also have a more erratic course. That alone means that we need to get better prepared for it. That brings me to Mr Van Aalst. He has a slightly different view of whether human influence and climate change are at the root of it, but I am very pleased that you are saying: we should just be prepared when there is such a dry summer, and if we have a very wet summer, by the way, because then we should be able to dispose of it. So that's what we share. I think that together we can also get into the conversation if we have the results of the Policy Table Dryness. You also mentioned the displacement sequence. At Vewin there are also some uncertainties about this. That, too, is a point of attention in this policy table, and I can reassure you on that. I'm with Mr. Stoffer. As you come to later speakers, things have often already been addressed by others. Mr Stoffer also asked about the involvement of drinking water companies. That's what's being taken with you. I very much agree with Mr Stoffer that the problem has, of course, often started on the high sandy soils. That is also where we have the biggest problems. The question of what it has done for nature will be raised by the honourable Member. That is, of course, also worrying. Whether the scaling-up can be different and better we must also include in the evaluation. Last time, we did it in a way. That was a little digging. For example, the DG RWS called me with "we think this is the time to," just to get it to the national... But it is very good that we are also looking with strange eyes at whether we have done something at the right time or whether we could have done it differently or better. I have already dealt with the functioning of the displacement sequence. Mr Stoffer puts his finger on the sore spot when it comes to cables and pipes that may be in the way. You're talking about the hard layer at Nijmegen. Those are also points where a lot of engineers still have to provide hard and soft solutions. As a RWS man, you know what I mean. Different technical variants are possible. Furthermore, we ask the Deltares and of this world to think with us and find a solution. Because we have to find them together. And that also has an important role in the Integrated River Management Programme. Then I'm through, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u90	Thank you. Then I would like to give the floor to the other executive, the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Nieuwenhuizen has already mentioned this, but for my part I also greatly appreciate the people who did an incredible amount of work last summer. These have been especially the people who were indeed working around water, but it also applies very specifically to the people who have been working in nature and agriculture. The drought hit precisely those things very hard, unfortunately we have had to observe. We have already talked about this in various debates on agriculture, but I think it is good that we look a little more broadly and a little more from the point of view: what happened, what are the lessons that we can draw from this and how are we now working on this as a cabinet? I have indicated in a number of letters of Parliament what we have done in the short and longer term in the field of agriculture and nature to help entrepreneurs in sectors of agriculture and nature to cope with the effects of drought. We have adapted a number of rules on manure policy and relaxed CAP greening measures. We have also taken a number of measures in the fiscal sphere. I have reported that there is support research to improve the water management of natural areas in future drought situations. I informed the Chamber of action programmes on climate change adaptation for the agriculture and nature sectors and on improving the possibilities for applying risk management. I am referring in particular to broad weather insurance. Those are all things that we've set in motion, what we're still working on and what we're working on. Some of them are also continuing during this period. I have been asked specific questions in the field of agriculture and nature. For example, Mr Geurts asks whether the delays in farmers and nature have already been eliminated. The answer is: that's different; it's not like that everywhere. There are areas where normal water levels or normal water management have not yet been fully restored. Whether that is actually going to happen depends, of course, also on the rain that will fall in the coming period. So we can't exactly send for that. But it's not like it's been smoothed out all over again, that it's the way it was a year ago. Mr Geurts specifically asked about the level of water: is water drainage in peat meadows also a solution for farmers? Peil drainage is one of the solutions. The climate table itself has of course already thought about a number of possibilities in the peat meadow area and focuses on a varied mix of measures: underwater drainage, transition to wet crops, transition to nature, growth of peat moss and therefore also level drainage. It is therefore a set of factors that can be used. Pilots are also being done. The results will have to show what is most effective and best applicable in certain areas, including for roll-out on a larger scale. These pilots are carried out together with provinces, water boards, municipalities, farmers and a number of relevant expert organisations. So this is a very topical issue. Mrs Bromet and Mr De Groot know all about this. They sent the Chamber their views on the peat meadows yesterday. Mr De Groot's own-initiative paper and Mrs Bromet's own-initiative paper on climate adaptation went a little along with that. I suspect that we are going to talk about this even more broadly, but that is obviously up to the Chamber. But it is an interesting subject, which is discussed on several tables. I'm guessing tonight isn't the last time we're gonna talk about that. Mr Geurts and some other Members have asked what exactly is going on with the notification of broad weather insurance in Brussels. I am grateful to the Chamber for the motion that has been tabled. It doesn't happen often that as a cabinet you say you're grateful for a motion filed, but I think this motion from the CDA and the SGP is interesting. They said: look at the abolition of the insurance tax on broad weather insurance, because that insurance is a means of risk management. They indicated that it is very important that it can be used, but then it must also be accessible to farmers. Together with the Secretary of State for Finance, I'm working on that. The consultation with the European Commission on exemption from insurance tax is currently under way. We have informed the Commission of the background to the Dutch decision in the European context. Talks are already going on at different levels. The first impression of this is, therefore, that the Commission is interested in how we are doing about it. She also asks questions about how we do that. I will of course inform the Chamber, together with the Secretary of State for Finance, when we have been given a ruling from the European Commission. I expect that's before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u92	European money has already gone to broad weather insurance twice. The insurance tax has been abolished. We can throw more money at it. But one factor is important in order for it to succeed, and that is that farmers simply ensure themselves. How is the Minister going to ensure that many farmers and growers are assured so that the premiums go down?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u93	This is exactly what we're doing. The farmers say that money is going to go there, but then we pay insurance tax on it, so that insurance is not attractive enough. It's kind of a calculation. I get that. If you're gonna make a calculation, you're gonna make a calculation: what's the risk I think I'm gonna run, what's the premium I'm gonna have to pay, and I expect that insurance to pay off when I need it? In the conversations they also often said: "There is already money going. That's true. Only, that insurance tax is really a limiting factor." If you take it off, it can already remove a threshold, which makes that calculation more positive and the farmers want to guarantee themselves with that insurance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u94	I fear that will simply lead to the same calculation, perhaps at a lower level, yes. But in the end, it's about ensuring that all farmers are assured. That's also about solidarity. I would nevertheless like to call on the Minister to sit down with the LTO, who stirred the drum so violently this summer and not always in a pleasant way. If that insurance tax is off, they must also encourage their members to join in massively.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u95	I have those conversations with LTO, too. Of course, we are also asking whether there is any publicity about it. Do farmers and gardeners know exactly what the insurance means? So that's what happens. Only I wouldn't want to go to some kind of insurance obligation, if that's the idea. Farmers and gardeners are really too different for that. I also think that they should and can make their own assessment. But where there are insurance thresholds, we take them away as much as possible, so that the choice becomes more attractive and thus also the group of participants, which in turn can have an impact on the premium.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u96	A very short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u97	I'm not talking about insurance, either. I'm talking about "enticing insurance." I hope the Minister could do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u98	Seduce? Yeah, we're good at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u99	But I would also like to make one thing clear here. If we are going to be damaged by hail, drought or I know a lot about it again, we could have been assured. We didn't leave anything to stimulate that. And then there's no room for government compensation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u100	Thank you. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u101	Yes. I think I've already given the answer. We're just trying to increase that attractiveness. That temptation, as Mr De Groot calls it. Mr Dijkstra has asked a rather fundamental question. What lessons have we learned from the drought? That is a fair question, because that is, of course, exactly what we are doing and what we are doing. As the colleague pointed out, we have of course been working for a very long time to arm ourselves against too much water. We've gotten a little better at that over time. Only a situation of drought really demands new insights and ideas. In addition to draining water, we must also pay attention in the future to water retention and economical water use. These are precisely the questions that we are now taking into account in the action programmes for agriculture and nature and in the approach to the climate adaptation for the Netherlands in a broad sense. Because handling too much water will also be an issue. I myself visited a potato grower, who showed me the consequences of the summer drought on his land. But he also said: three months before I had another problem here, which is far too much water. In three months it went from extreme wetness to extreme drought. So we need to be flexible in adapting to these situations. This calls for a more fundamental reflection of the situation, but these are precisely the questions that we are answering in the programmes that have now been set up for both agriculture and nature. Mr Futselaar and Mrs Van Brenn asked whether there was also permanent damage to nature. Is that insightful already? Mrs Van Brenk herself has already indicated that we are still mapping that out. In the spring we can better see whether there has also been irreparable damage to nature. To know if there is the term "impossible damage," you also need time. You can't just judge that in one season; it takes a longer time. It becomes clear in a new growing season. So we really need to see what the consequences are. We have offered the provinces to support research into this. That's what Wageningen University does. The provinces are looking at it and we have made the offer to use the knowledge and skills of the WUR. This is also being used. Mr Futselaar had a question about the longer run-out of manure. He asked when we can no longer speak of extreme weather, but of a regular situation, or "the new normal." I have already indicated that we in Europe have indicated that we want room for the manure rules, because we need a longer run-off period. If you're going to run manure on extremely dry land, it's not good for the soil, but the farmers need to get rid of their manure. We also received this extension from Europe. We have to apply for it there, because the rules are laid down there. These are, of course, the questions we are asking ourselves in Europe: if you see that this is going to happen for a really long time, how do you deal with these kinds of rules? That's the case with the catch crop. That was just touched by Mr Stoffer. We have applied for the exception clause in Europe. That's what we got. A discussion is also when something is long. If that's the case, you'll have other discussions. That's true. These are subjects that are also on the agenda in Brussels. One season is not yet a permanent situation for the Commission. We do insist that, if this happens more often, we think about it differently. I think I convinced Mr Futselaar. Mrs Van Brenk asked what the damage was for agriculture and horticulture. I've informed the Chamber about that. I sent a report from Wageningen University. It has made it clear to each region and sector what the income position has been in the past year. Of course, the income position is not directly related to the drought, but you do see a variable picture. In part, you can relate that to the drought problem. For example, larger income effects have occurred in Zeeland and in the peat colonies. You may suspect that this has a relationship with the drought problem. Those reports have been sent to the Chamber and in it it is written much more specifically than I now call it. Mr Stoffer raised a number of questions about regulatory flexibility, for example with regard to catch crops. I have already mentioned this in relation to Mr Futselaar's question. In 2018, flexibility with regard to catch crops was granted. By the way, it has only been used by a few dozen entrepreneurs. That's what I'm saying to put it in perspective for a moment. The flexibility of the force majeure clause is always there. We must use this in a responsible manner. So we do that by reporting it to the Commission ourselves when we think that is the case. Mr Stoffer has also asked a somewhat broader question about when something is an agricultural disaster, when you are going to pay out and the relationship with broad weather insurance. I have already indicated in an interruption by Mr De Groot that we are committed to ensuring that the exemption from insurance tax is achieved in broad weather insurance. The Omnibus regulation of the European Union, which has been in force since the beginning of last year, also provides some guidance on this, such as lowering the damage threshold from 30% to 20%. For example, this is also one of the comments we often get about insurance: before you get paid, there is a very high risk of your own being taken. A handle, for example, is also to increase the premium subsidy we give. In the Working Group on Broad Weather Insurance, we are also working with industry and insurers to see what the options are for adapting the scheme accordingly. That is what I am doing in the light of the new CAP. I think I'll get an opinion on this from the working group in the middle of this year. I'll inform the Chamber about the conclusions. In general, the Netherlands has stated that the insurance applies to damage caused by weather conditions. We have to make the most of that. The thresholds there must be removed as far as possible. We invest in practical research. I take that call to heart, but we're already doing that. My colleague has just mentioned the displacement series. Mr President, I think I have answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u102	There is one more question from Mr Dijkstra, I think. At least he has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u103	I heard the minister talking about the run-out of manure. That's what we got extended back then. Catch crops have been mentioned by the Minister himself. I also read: the tearing of grassland and crop protection. All these things do come across as ad hoc cases, where we have to go to Brussels every time to ask for permission. Is that the case, or can we just deal with this smartly and quickly at the moment when that happens again? We want to prevent that damage, of course. Then you must be able to intervene in good time. In many countries it is much drier than in the Netherlands, much and much drier! Apparently, they do have exceptions. How can we find a mode in this so that we can simply intervene quickly if it is necessary to minimise the damage to agriculture?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u104	We must ask for these exceptions in Brussels. It's not like I'm just getting a carte blanche from the Commission. In fact, the Commission is always quite strict in the rules for, for example, the excrement period for animal manure, the period during which grassland can be renewed and the period during which a crop should be sown after maize. These are all matters that need to be addressed before we can achieve them. I do not just get a free ticket from the Commission. At the same time, we are doing everything we can to clarify this as soon as possible. That's what we did last summer. I know every day counts. I'm very aware of that. I think that we have had good experience of the speed with which this type of thing has to go on. But I can't always get around certain terms. If I need advice from the CDM, for example, I have to wait for that first. If the Commission has to give an agreement, I will be pushing for it. We literally did. But I do depend on how they deal with it. We now have the experience of last summer, of how it went back then. We can take them with us in any future situations. I come now to Mr Futselaar's more fundamental question when a situation is permanent. That's not based on a summer, I can report you. But if you see that this is really going to increase, of course we are going to have that discussion in Europe as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u105	Thank you. I'll take a look at the MPs. Is there a need for a second term? That's the case. I shall begin by giving the floor to Mr De Groot of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Ministers for answering the questions. From this point on, the compliments for crisis management and through these ministers also for all the people involved. Maybe they even had to use their summer vacation for that. Great respect for that! At the same time, the Minister said that she has encountered situations that you could not have imagined in advance, up to tankers with drinking water towards Andijk. Fortunately, that was not necessary, but that means that we have now had a crisis. If you look at the scenarios of the KNMI, I will say again to Mr Geurts...................................................................................................................................................................................... Then you shouldn't be talking about a crisis anymore, but you really should be prepared for this new normal. That is, once again, also the background to the note D66 submitted together with GroenLinks. Mr. Chairman. I have three motions. The first motion concerns the waterboards and the policy on peat meadows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the long-term decline in groundwater levels has led to a sharp decline in soil in peatlands;]] [[Whereas low groundwater levels in peat meadows are accompanied by CO emissions comparable to 2 million cars;]] [[Considering that this would lead to damage to houses and roads of EUR 22 billion in 2050;]] [[Whereas this situation can be reversed by level fixation;]] [[calls on the Government to engage with provinces and water boards to consider alternative policies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr De Groot and Mr Bromet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27625-460]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u107	Mr. Chairman. Then the future resistance of waterboards. The Minister has already indicated something about an investigation that is coming to that effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u108	You're gonna have to go a little faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u109	I would like to give you the following problem, Mr President. I'm gonna get right on it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas waterboards are increasingly confronted with the effects of climate change;]] [[Whereas addressing the consequences of climate change affects all Dutch people;]] [[Whereas this changes the role of water boards from functional governance to general governance;]] [[Whereas it places the general interest at the heart of decision-making;]] [[Whereas this is at odds with the system of secure seats;]] [[calls on the Government to consider ways of making decision-making in waterboards future-proof;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr De Groot and Mr Bromet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27625-461]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u110	Then I'll move on very quickly, Mr. Chairman. A motion on expertise, spatial integration. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas spatial integration in addition to water safety requires specific expertise;]] [[Whereas one of the success factors of Space for the River has been the availability of bundled expertise on spatial integration;]] [[Whereas this expertise helps to realise projects without cost overruns and with support, as demonstrated by the evaluation referred to above;]] [[Whereas further erosion of rivers leads to blockades for shipping in dry periods;]] [[calls on the Government to pool and flexibly deploy expertise on spatial integration for the High Water Protection Programme and for the Integrated River Management,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr De Groot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27625-462]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u111	Mr. Chairman. I have two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas salinisation of surface water should be avoided at intake points for drinking water supply;]] [[Whereas a sudden large salinization of the IJsselmeer took place last summer;]] [[Whereas the level and unpredictability of salination resulted in multiple intake stops at the drinking water intake point in Andijk;]] [[calls on the Government to improve the measurement and modelling network of the IJsselmeer, with the aim of early warning, monitoring, improved predictability and taking timely measures to prevent salinisation of surface water at drinking water intake points,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bromet and Mr Kröger. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27625-463]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u112	Well, it's Mrs Bromet's motion that Mr Geurts has a question about. Just for the report.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u113	Sorry, correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u114	I put to the vote the same kind of motion here in the Chamber a while ago in order to shift the intake points where possible and where necessary. What does this motion add to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u115	This motion is not about shifting, but it is about monitoring and being aware of calamities when it comes to salinization.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u116	Mr Geurts, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u117	If I have listened carefully, I really heard in the motion the word "take-away points."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u118	Yes, the word "take points" is in the motion. But if you have the motion on your table, please read the operative part.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u119	Thank you. Mrs. Bromet, you're moving on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u120	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the drought has shown that the Netherlands is not sufficiently prepared for the whims of the weather extremes that are going to bring us climate change;]] [[Whereas the water boards play an important role in the management of our water and therefore have a responsibility to respect climate change;]] [[Whereas structural policies are needed in many areas for the disposal and disposal of water, for example by creating more natural buffers;]] [[invites the Government to consult with the water boards to formulate an objective on their contribution to the resilience of the Dutch water policy, including better drainage and disposal of the water, and to inform the Chamber about the results within two months,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bromet and Mr De Groot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27625-464]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u121	I will look at Mr Dijkstra to see if he needs a second term. That's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u122	Mr. Chairman. The availability of sufficient drinking water is essential. We have been reminded of this in the past summer. I heard from the minister that the tankers are ready to take the water from one side to the other. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the availability of drinking water may be affected by drought;]] [[noting that the Meuse and the Rhine are essential sources for our national drinking water supply;]] [[calls on the government, in coordination with our neighbouring countries, to ensure that problems there do not lead to a shortage of drinking water in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government also to consider whether additional strategic (groundwater) stocks can be useful to maintain the quantity and quality of the Dutch drinking water supply,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Remco Dijkstra. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27625-465]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u123	Let me take a look at Mr Futselaar. He also uses his second term, but he doesn't have a motion, he states. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u124	Mr. Chairman. The SP certainly has concerns about shipping, drinking water supply and so on. But when we listen to the rulers, they actually say that there are still evaluations, reports and plans coming. So we think it is a little early to table motions. I would almost say that the large number of motions that call for 'deport' is already pointing in that direction. You may wonder whether this debate is entirely timely. Having said that, there was one highlight for me. Indeed, we have found that the KNMI is seen as an authority on climate change by the PVV. As far as the SP is concerned, that's a profit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u125	Thank you. Mrs. Van Brenk for her second term. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, if this is timely... But we always like to push a little. That's why a little push towards the minister with two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in the Landelijk Opleidingboek Waterdeling (Landelijk Opleidingboek Waterdeling) the drinking water sector is not mentioned as a participant in crisisshooting in the event of extreme drought;]] [[considering the vital and national importance of the availability of sufficient drinking water;]] [[Whereas good coordination and coordination between all interested parties is of great importance;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure the involvement of the drinking water sector in crisis situations in the event of drought,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27625-466]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u127	And the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in the event of drought, the water level may be lower than usual;]] [[Whereas, in this case, the negative impact of industrial discharges on water quality is greater;]] [[calls on the Government to take the initiative to make the flow dependent on industrial discharge permits,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-27625-467]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u128	I would like to thank the two rulers for their reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u129	Thank you. I am looking at Mr Stoffer to see if he wants to make use of his second term. That is not the case. I'm looking at the rulers. How much time do they need? They're gonna need up to ten minutes, they're gonna report it. We'll start again at 10:15. I'm suspending the meeting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u130	First of all, I give the floor to the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u131	Mr President, I may begin, but to manage the expectations: I am merely doing the motion in part No. 460. This motion, tabled by Mr De Groot and Mrs Bromet, calls for talks with provinces and water boards to see what alternative policy is possible around groundwater levels. They specifically refer to the possibility of level fixation. I have just checked with colleague Van Nieuwenhuizen: she is in about a permanent state of consultation with the water boards. I have that with the provinces. On the specific subject, I have indicated that we can go several ways in the peat meadow areas. That's not about one method. That is exactly what was discussed at the climate table. Calling for consultation with these parties is not necessary anyway, because we are already doing so. On the specific question of policy on this subject, I would like to say that there is no single method and we are also having this very discussion within the framework of the climate agreement. That is why I think this motion is really superfluous, and that is why I do not recommend it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u132	The motion in part No. 460 is not recommended. There is a question from Mrs Bromet about the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u133	In any case, an expression of joy that the Minister looks so closely at it that there is not one method suitable for the peat meadow area. I'm very happy about that. The second is that we would like to keep the motion, because we are also going to have a note-taking meeting on the own-initiative paper.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u134	At the request of Mr De Groot and Mrs Bromet, I propose their motion (No. In the meantime, I would like to make a few brief comments on this matter. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u135	Fine. Can I make a comment on the method? I see that this motion does focus on one method, namely the fixing of levels. So that is just one method, let me say to Mrs Bromet. I would therefore advise her to broaden the scope of the motion, but that is a free tip.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u136	Thank you. Then I give the floor to the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State for her appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the motion in part No. 461, by Mr De Groot. It invites the government to examine ways of making decision-making in the waterboards future-proof. If it were not to take so long, I would normally have said to Mr De Groot: hold the motion until we start assessing it in the run-up to the next elections, as I promised, and start working on the committee's opinions. But holding the motion for a few more years is a bit excessive. You have heard my contribution in the first term and we will work on this in the long term, but for now the motion is really untimely. I would therefore advise against it. The motion in part No. 462, also by Mr De Groot, asks the government for the High Water Protection Programme and for integrated river management expertise on spatial integration to be brought together and used flexibly. This motion I can give my heartfelt judgment Chamber. Then I come to the motion on part No. 463 by Mrs Bromet and Mrs Kröger, whom we still wish to see well. This motion is about improving measurement and monitoring on the IJsselmeer, with the aim of an early warning for salinisation. I can take over the motion, but it's actually unnecessary. So I leave Mrs Bromet to decide whether she is prepared to accept that I am taking over the motion or that I would advise against it otherwise, because we are actually doing it already.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u138	I'll take a look at the MPs to see if there's any objection. Yes, there is an objection from Mr Dijkstra. That means that the motion will be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u139	Then I'll dissuade the motion, because we'll just do it. The same applies to the motion in part No. 464, which calls for consultations with the waterboards in order to formulate an objective on their contribution to resilience. That's just standing policy, so dissuade it. I shall now come to Mr Dijkstra's motion on item No. 465.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u140	I'm just gonna take a quick look at the motion on part number one. 464. Do you, like the motion before that, request to take over the motion or do you advise against the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u141	No. It is also said that we have to report within two months, while it is the usual system that we do so with the Delta programme. And that's just September.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u142	You're dissuading the motion in part No. 464.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u143	So I'm gonna advise him. Mr Dijkstra's motion for a resolution 465 actually has two requests. The first is that the government must consult with neighbouring countries in order to achieve coordination. We're basically already doing that. The second is to ask the government to consider whether additional strategic groundwater resources could be useful. On the basis of that second request, I would actually like to propose to Mr Dijkstra that this motion be retained, because of course this is part of the Drought Policy Table and the recommendations that will emerge from it. You can, Mr. Dijkstra, if you get that, assess whether this motion is still necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u144	I shall look at Mr Dijkstra to see if he wishes to continue his motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u145	When's that gonna be about?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u146	I promised earlier that you would at least get Water for the next general consultation. I myself hope to be able to do so much sooner.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u147	Mr Dijkstra gives me a nod.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u148	I see a question from Mr De Groot. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u149	I have another question about the second motion. The Minister is talking about an investigation that is going to take place in the run-up to the next watership elections in 2023. When would that investigation start?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u150	I can't entirely estimate that yet, but the Water Advisory Committee has already said some things about it. That's what we want to get involved in before then. I think we're gonna do that in 2021 or something. At least we are going to start it well in advance, but not in the short term. Then I come to the motion on part No. 466 by Mrs Van Brenk. This is the same as what I said to Mr Dijkstra, who is asking the government to ensure the involvement of the drinking water sector in crisis situations in the event of drought. That too is part of what is on the table at the drought policy table. I would ask you, Mrs Van Brenk, to hold on to that motion and, when you have received the recommendations and lessons from them, to see if it is still necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u151	I'm gonna take a look at Mrs. Van Brenk. She's shaking yes, so she's holding on to her motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u152	It will not surprise her that this also applies to the eighth motion in part No. 467, because that's exactly the same thing. It invites the Government to take the initiative to make flow dependent on industrial discharge permits. I see that this question is very clearly on the table, and this is also explicitly the subject of the Drought Policy Table. So we'll make sure you get a response to that. It will, I think, depend on which one that is or you the motion to. to put it to the vote or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u153	This is actually exactly what I wanted to achieve. It's on the table and the Minister's gonna give us an answer. If I'm unhappy, they'll come back on the table.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u154	At the request of Mrs Van Brenn, I propose her motion (17625, No. 467). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u155	Fine. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u156	This brings us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-13-tweedekamer-8.u157	Vote on the motions tabled will take place next Tuesday. I would like to thank the directors, the MPs, the people in the public gallery and the viewers at home.
