ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u1	We had the first term from the Chamber yesterday. Today's answer is on behalf of the government. I would, of course, like to welcome the Minister for Education, Culture and Science and the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u2	I will be the first to give the floor to the Minister for Education, Culture and Science.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank Members for their contribution yesterday. Well, before I start, maybe I'll just get a household railway book. I shall begin with an introduction, in which I will bring answers to Members' questions as much as possible. Then I have a block of higher education and research, including a block on the strategic agenda, a block on workload, a block on fundamental and unbound research, a block on the profiling fund and government grants, a block on the loan system and a block on lifelong development and flexibilisation. Then I will come to the mbo with green picking and the master title, and finally I will deal with the amendments that have been tabled. Mr. Chairman. Before I start, I would also like to wish Mr Beertem a great deal of strength from this place on behalf of Mr Slob and myself. As good as his replacement is, we do miss him in this debate. As much as I disagree with him sometimes, it's always a party to debate with him and we miss him. Mr. Chairman. Yesterday was a special day. Here in the public gallery and all over the country, teachers asked for attention to be paid to the shortage of teachers. The shortage of teachers is also our main concern, of Mr Slob, of me and of the cabinet. I would almost say "a top priority," but with double p. Because it is about the basics of education, what it all starts with: a good teacher for the class. The shortage of teachers is a complex problem with a multitude of causes that have built up over decades. And yes, to solve that, money is needed. Mr Slob will discuss the resources made available for this. But it would be naive to think that you could solve that with money on your own and also on your own. There is money for it, more than was envisaged in the coalition agreement, but money alone is not enough. The shortage of teachers calls for an approach on many fronts, and we are working hard on that. It is about training differently, working differently and organizing differently, as we did in our letter of 8 October. The whole thing, all three areas, demands our attention every day. Once again, Mr Slob will deal with this in more detail. I will now confine myself to the issues that are specifically my responsibility. Then it's all about training differently. Earlier this year the Education Council came up with an interesting advice, entitled Spacious job for teachers. At the heart of this opinion is the fact that the current system of responsibilities is breaking down and that, while maintaining quality and a good basis for everyone, greater flexibility and specialisation should be provided. Mr Slob and I have now set up a committee to put forward proposals for a whole new system of competences before the summer of 2020, with the aim of making the profession of teacher more attractive. For example, by making it easier to combine, specialise or broaden certain teaching competences so that teachers can more easily jump across the boundaries of sectors and subjects. At the same time, we take seriously the warning given by the Education Council to continue to consider the training system as a whole. We sent you a letter on this at the beginning of July and we discussed it in the AA in October. Mr. Chairman. I come now to the questions of Mr Heerema, Mr Rog, Mr Bruins and Mr Bishop on the specialization of pabo. The coalition agreement announced that we will differentiate in teacher training and that specializations will be made for the young child and the older child. After all, we all want people who are motivated to go to education not to stand in front of the gate. We've had research conducted into those specializations in teacher training. You were informed of this in January of this year. This research has shown that all pabos now have young children with specializations, that there are still many differences between these pabos and that these specializations can be strengthened. At our request, the pabos started to do so. Pabos have started a network of young children together with primary schools. That network will be able to become the centre of expertise for early childhood education. Yeah, I'm just thinking about it; it's not so neat that we do that in English. Let's just call that "education for the young child." I think that would be a better name for that centre of expertise. Many pabos also actively conduct internship policies. For example, in most cases the preschool placement has already been moved from the first year to a later year. It is sometimes also possible to shorten the internship with the young or older child. So for the short term we assume the pabo as we know it now: simple, with a broad competence, without cut but with strong specializations for among others the young child and the older child. For the longer term, the Commission will advise powers on a separate competence for the young child and the older child, whether or not next to the regular pabo as we know it now. The committee will take this into account in the broad perspective of training in a continuous learning line from 0 to 18 years. That requires careful advice. We need to look at that integrally. We don't want to go ice cream in one night, but we also want to speed things up. We have therefore asked the committee: come before the summer of 2020 with building blocks for this new system of powers. Mr. Chairman. Training and organising differently also means preventing teachers from falling out during or shortly after their studies, whether full-time students, side-intromers, men or women. I would like to nuance the image that was sketched here that there would be a lot of outages from men on the pabo. Over the past three years, perhaps because of the specializations, we have seen a significant decrease of about 10% in the fall-out and switch after the year one. Now we see that outage and switch is at the level of actually the whole HBO. It's still a big percentage, but it's similar to the rest of the HBO. By the way, it is a drop-out and switch percentage that we still have to do something about in width. This is without prejudice to the need to organise training in a different way. This can be done, for example, by increasing the number of partnerships between teacher training and schools, so that we can train together in as many places as possible. We have made additional funds available for this which the field asked for: two times 10.6 million. Mr. Chairman. In addition, we are also looking at the part-time factor. In education, a relatively large proportion of women work part-time. If the current average working week in primary education of 28 hours would be increased by half an hour over the next four years, this would yield 760 FTE. I understand very well that reality does not allow itself to be organized, but it is interesting calculations to take a look at. How could you possibly work that out for a school or an entire school board? With a number of generic measures, the cabinet tries to make more hours of work more attractive, including for teachers. We also know that not every measure fits every situation. The shortage of teachers looks different in the Randstad than in shrinking areas and there are also differences between schools. So we work on that every day. And speaking of part-time work, before Christmas, the cabinet will be responding to a wide-ranging study, the so-called ibo, on the part-time factor, in which we will look at how we can reduce this part-time factor in the broad, but certainly also in deficit sectors such as education and care. The best way to contribute to our future prosperity and well-being is by investing in education and research. This cabinet also delivers on that point. We are stepping up around 2 billion in our policy areas, most of which are in education. The Lisbon target of 2.5% of gross domestic product for research and innovation is not being met, but I assume that this cabinet has the importance of education, research and innovation in mind. Prime Minister Rutte said it last week at the General Political Reviews in the First Chamber: we want to keep an eye on this objective. In doing so, he drew a parallel with the NATO target for Defense. We want to keep an eye on this, and so is the Lisbon objective. We're now around 2%. The 2020 target is 2.5%, so there is room for growth and there is room for investment. That is why the growth letter and the fund that the cabinet is working on will focus on investment in education, knowledge and science. Even without achieving this Lisbon objective, our education is already of a high level and we should be proud of that. With average investment we achieve an above average result, and this is mainly due to all those people working very hard in education and research that day in, day out. Our economy is running well and is competitive because we have a well-educated workforce. At the same time, we are seeing changes in the world: competition between educational institutions is growing worldwide, digitisation has a major impact on our work, the workload and application pressure in higher education and research are high, too high in some places, and students sometimes experience more stress than is right for them. I am very aware of that. Our higher education has a good reputation at home and abroad. It is accessible and it is popular, so we are dealing with a persistent influx of new students. On the other hand, the scientific budget has not grown with these student numbers and there are too many incentives in the system that stand in the way of cooperation. That's what pinches, for students, for teachers and for researchers. Here again, the causes of this pressure have arisen over the years, for many reasons. I can't promise you right now that I can eliminate all these causes and solve all these problems during this cabinet period, but I can promise you that we will do what we can. That's how I decided to review the funding. In concrete terms, this means that a smaller proportion of the education budget depends on student numbers, so that the flow of funds for institutions becomes more predictable. For the research I have decided that 100 million from the second will be transferred to the first money stream. 60 million have already been filled in and for the remaining 40 million we are still waiting for the opinion of the Van Weckhuysen Committee. In addition, the VSNU and NWO are working on a new culture of recognition and rewarding of research, education and impact, so that people who are committed to the best education can also be appreciated for this and not only for research. Education and impact also deserve appreciation. VSNU and NWO are also investigating, together with the Academy, how to tackle the interplay between working pressure, matching pressure and application pressure. Those measures will come back on top of what we have done before. First of all, of course, there are also the investments from the study advance. And earlier this week, I have informed you that institutions have invested 600 million in all kinds of measures that students really like: smaller groups, better guidance, larger library times and so on. And to answer the question of the member Paternotte in advance: yes, these measures have been implemented with close involvement and in consultation with teachers and students. That was the deal we made with them. And all these investments add up to 2.3 billion dollars to the quality plan during this period. In addition, the collective agreement for higher education has agreed on more career prospects and more job security for junior teachers and young researchers. The sector plans also reduce the workload. In science and technology, 340 scientists and teachers are currently appointed. Mr. Chairman. In several ways I want to further promote this collaboration between researchers and teachers in research teams. This is done, for example, through the NWA and the Gravity Premiums, and by broadening the Spinoza Premiums to teams. I consider the workload in higher education to be one of the most important issues for the coming period. In the strategic agenda that you will receive in the coming month, we will also discuss this further. That workload is really too high in some places. Mr. Chairman. A great deal has already been said and written in the past year about the opinion of the Van Rijn Committee, and in particular about the transfer of budget to science and technology. And I would like to say once again that this transfer was only one of the opinions contained in the report. It was also an advice to solve an acute bottleneck quickly. I used the words 'quick and dirty' once, as Mrs Westerveld pointed out. I shouldn't have used those words; that was a wrong choice of words. What I was going to say is this. After years of trying to get more students to science and technology, we now had to refuse them at the gate because training could not cope with the influx, while the labour market is jumping over these students. And with this transfer, we can put an end to this mismatch. In my view, therefore, the delay in implementing Van Rijn's opinions, as Mrs van den Hul suggested, is not the issue. And we also have with additional resources from the Spring Note, 37 million, and the resources from the sector plan, another 18 million, which we are targeting for those broad universities, provided for a soft landing. In the first few years, there will be no deterioration in the institution. And institutions are all funded lump sum and are themselves responsible for the distribution of their resources. But the most important thing from Van Rijn's report was that it is about much more, such as the whole funding and removing the wrong incentives for competition in it, which encourage too much competition, to hunt for students rather than for cooperation. These are all important opinions that we need to consider. In the strategic agenda, I will indicate how I will deal with it in the future. Mr. Chairman. I come at the end of my introduction to one point that I would like to say something about, because it has disturbed me to a degree. Mr Futselaar rightly pointed out the same thing. I'm referring to the discussion about RIVM. In science, everything is always in question. That's in her nature. If you are looking for new knowledge, you must want and be able to ask everything, even if you question your own knowledge. That is the essence and power of science. And at the same time, it sometimes makes science vulnerable in the public debate. In my view, that makes it all the worse when people who abuse vulnerability and attack science purely and simply because of an outcome that does not suit them at the time. Mr. Chairman. As Minister of Science, I think I should show here that we stand as a cabinet for our scientific institutions. I would now like to move on to the cubes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u4	I would like to begin by wholeheartedly supporting the Minister in what she has just said. Science must never be called into question and must not become part of a completely different kind of discussion. Very much so. Mr. Chairman. My question concerns the following. The minister just talked about the redistribution of alpha, gamma and medical by technique and beta. I made a very concrete proposal yesterday to meet both the wishes of science and technology....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The minister himself said it's gonna hurt somewhere. Our proposal was very clear: use those soft landing devices to take a first step towards beta and technology and wait a little longer for the funding investigation. We expect that very soon; this is coming in the middle of next year, as we understand. Then look further at the longer-term consequences for alpha, gamma and medical. I have not yet heard a response from the Minister to that proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u5	A few things about that. We must be aware that this discussion has been going on since 2016. Then the wish was expressed widely from the Chamber to do more for beta and technique. A motion to that effect was almost supported by the House. Research has been carried out in the previous period. The decision was postponed. Unfortunately, I was also in favour of this task, and initially also within the existing macro framework. But I also found it very difficult to explain to society that we invest a lot of money to interest boys and girls in science and technology, and that, if they make that choice, they face a numerus fixus. At least that's not the point of calling it that. My only space was to redistribute. The Van Rijn Committee gave a prudent opinion on this. We have arranged for additional resources for a soft landing in spring. On top of that, I have made 18 million extra available from the sector plan for precisely the beta faculties of the broad universities. There is no institution going backwards in the first few years. It is true that we are funding lump sum and that it is always up to the institutions themselves whether they redistribute or not. I often explain to you that we have all kinds of wishes about how institutions spend that budget, but yes: it goes lumpsum. I understand that this is very difficult for drivers, but I think it is their job to see what they think responsible policies are for their institution. That's up to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u6	Mr President, my second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u7	Yes, this is the second question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u8	Mr President, my second question is, building on my first, because it has not yet been answered: why do we not wait for that funding study? One of Van Rijn's main conclusions was precisely that we steer in the fog and do not have sufficient insight into how the funding currently works. That funding investigation is ongoing. There are, indeed, some justified concerns. The Minister himself admitted it's gonna hurt. There are real concerns from the humanities and there are real concerns from the medical sciences: also sectors that are important in today's challenges. Let me ask you again: why not use those soft landing agents for a first boost for beta and technique and then next year, when the results of the funding study are there, look further at the distribution of budgets? Then the real concerns from the alpha, gamma and medical sciences will also be met.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u9	Because the same discussion had arisen within the general universities. If you give extra money to the technical universities and not to the broad universities for science and technology, we would like to keep up with what is happening in terms of beta and technology on the tu's and also additional resources; we would ask drivers to change. That's what universities tell me: if you do it that way, we get that same discussion internally. I understand it's very difficult. With the cost research we look at the cost and the relationship between the different fields of science. We will get the results of the research very quickly: next year. Before there is an institution that goes into the minus, that's only the case from 2022 onwards, we have the chance to look at the distribution. But I honestly thought I couldn't wait to do this surgery. Again, it's at the broad universities. I understand that it is very difficult for drivers, but it is their responsibility and their choice how to deal with the lump sum budget, which remains exactly the same as in the years before; at least when it comes to these budgets. Mr. Chairman. I come to the block of higher education and research. First of all, I would like to say something about the strategic agenda. The strategic agenda will be based on the fact that, with our system of higher education and research, we also have an excellent starting position internationally. This is also evident from all the international benchmarks that exist. At the same time, we also see that international, global competition is increasing and that we cannot sit still. We can't be satisfied with this position. If we don't do something, it might go backwards, too. In this context, Mr Wiersma wondered whether we had a good talent strategy at international level. The Netherlands is among the top when it comes to higher education and research. It also has a strong appeal to international talent. It is important to be careful about attracting and retaining that scientific talent in the science areas where international competition is fierce and our scientists from several countries receive offers. I can really follow him in that. A clear profile also helps attract talented foreign researchers. I think that is what Mr Wiersma asked: do we have a clear profile; do we know what we want to attract academic talent to? To get that clear profile, for example, we invest in sector plans and challenge sectors to come up with clear proposals about their profile. The Holland Scholarship Programme is also an instrument for working with the sectors to bring talent to the Netherlands. In addition, under the leadership of the VSNU, together with the ministries of EZK and BZK and various field parties, the program Make it in the Netherlands! set up to bring IT talent to the Netherlands. Together with EZK and Foreign Trade, we are currently working to better integrate knowledge into our international country strategy, so that we can also really improve knowledge diplomacy. If we are to maintain our international position in the long term, we need more cooperation in our system. That will really be the thread for me in the coming years. Better and more cooperation is needed in the system of higher education. At present, the system contains a number of incentives to promote unnecessary competition. Think of the large proportion of student-related funding. I mentioned that before. This leads to a very strong incentive to attract more students. So that incentive has to come out in part. Many research applications are submitted in the study, while only a small part can be met. This makes the workload of researchers unnecessarily high. In order to reduce the workload in higher education and research while remaining internationally competitive, we need to work together. There needs to be more predictability in the cost of education and undesirable incentives should be removed from the system. Against the background of more cooperation, I am committed to four ambitions for future higher education and research. In doing so, I would like to build on movements that have already started in higher education. I will come back to this later, also on the basis of the questions raised by Mr Wiersma, among others, about better integration into the labour market and society, the preservation and strengthening of our international position, and regionally anchored higher education. The strategic agenda will be published on 2 December. I assume that we will then have a detailed debate on this matter. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll get to the workload and the application pressure. As I said before, in higher education, the workload is one of the most worrying problems. With the institutions, I want to take various measures to reduce the workload. The workload of scientists is caused by a number of things. There is overtime, there are too many flexible contracts, there is application pressure, there is an increasing number of students, including international students, and there is an undervalue of educational tasks. Mr Wiersma, Mr Futselaar and Mr Paternotte drew attention to the request pressure. Mr Wiersma asked if it would help if proposals would not always have to be this big, if you could also come up with smaller proposals. It already is. For example, research proposals of a smaller size or with smaller issues can be submitted to the MBO. For example, small proposals can be submitted in more places, for example up to €50,000. We are still going to see whether we can apply that way of working, with large proposals, but also with small proposals, more broadly, because that can indeed mean that you can also move forward with small steps. One of the measures we discussed last year is the embedding guarantee. This already leads to a quarter reduction in the number of applications. This also means that fewer applications will increase the chances of payment. Another measure NWO takes is to experiment with pre-selection based on curriculum and a concise research idea. A first selection will be made on this basis. That would save the proposal from being drafted. Also ZonMw participates in a pilot. I also hope to receive this year's proposals from KNAW, NWO and VSNU on further reduction of the application pressure. Mr Wiersma asked whether the application for a lottery ticket would not also be an option. NWO has organised conferences on the application pressure, with explicit talk about drawing lots. In consultation, there was hardly any support for this. The main argument mentioned above is that the substantive selection is decreasing. Also, it is not always motivating that a draw takes place and that content is not assessed. That is why NWO decided to wait for the foreign experiences when it comes to drawing lots. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the workload. When I talk to teachers in higher education, no one cares about working hard. There's actually more than just hard work. But the combination of very hard work with an uncertain flexible contract often makes it so difficult. In order to reduce these flexible contracts, agreements have been made in the collective agreement. These are agreements about more career prospects and more job security for junior teachers and researchers. Mr Futselaar asked for this very specifically. For example, investment and sector plans can be strengthened at the base and people can be adopted on a fixed basis. The Beta and Technics Sector Plan involves 340 people. The universities have also made and are implementing work pressure plans themselves. A lot of attention is paid to solutions that fit in with one's own institution, social aspects, teamwork and working with fewer rules. The examination of an adequate macro-budget, which I am doing at the request of your Chamber, also looks at the efficiency of spending and the cost allocation. We will also look at the workload of teachers and researchers, particularly in scientific education, and thus at the scope for more permanent appointments. Mr. Chairman. I'm moving on to the block on fundamental and unbound research.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u10	Many flexible contracts create higher workloads in practice, due to uncertainty. The Minister is right to say that a great deal can be done, that measures are taken and that there are agreements in the collective agreements. It has more or less said in the written reply that a larger fixed base gives more certainty to institutions, allowing them to do more. There can be a lot, but so far not much seems to happen. Some institutions even seem to be going in the wrong direction. My specific question is: when does the Minister think 'I am not going to rely on trust anymore, but I am going to act if institutions are not moving in the right direction'?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u11	As far as flexible contracts are concerned, higher education, when compared to other sectors in the Netherlands, is not exactly the best employer. In my administrative consultations, in my discussions with the institutions and in my discussions with the supervisory boards, I put this on the agenda every time. I also really think that we could speed things up. It is often said that government funding is so uncertain. Well, this one's not so insecure that you have to take on so many flexible contracts. Because of the measures we are taking for a greater foothold, there can also be more. But you know as well as I do that I'm not a partner at the collective bargaining table. I'm not an employer. However, I think that this time and again in the administrative consultation and time and time again my visits should be on the table. We must continue to ask institutions why there are no more fixed contracts, because this is the central point in what I get back from teachers about why this workload is so experienced. If you ask me if I want to force that, then you know as well as I do that I am not an employer, but a little administrative pressure and raising in the Chamber will help.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u12	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u13	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van den Berge asked how I look at the availability of fundamental and unbound research in the Netherlands. I was happy with that question, because sometimes there are sounds like: can't it be a little less and can't we send a little more? He asked me about the possibility of providing more space for fundamental and unbound research within the current instruments, such as the National Science Agenda. With him, I believe that curiosity-driven fundamental research can always lead or lead to new insights but also to great scientific and social impact. This cabinet also invested heavily in fundamental research during the government agreement: twice 50 million in large-scale scientific infrastructure and structurally 200 million in basic research. It is financed, among other things, from the first money flow to universities and with NWO programmes such as the Talent Programme and the Open Competition. The National Science Agenda is precisely intended for a broad agenda of bottom-up, fundamental research. NWA offers researchers plenty of space, also for research that focuses on scientific breakthroughs. In the NWA the emphasis is on that fundamental research, preferably in connection with applied or practical research, but the approach route is the free, fundamental research in one of the 25 routes. Then I'll come to students. Mr Bruins and Mr Paternotte asked for attention to be paid to the signs that students in higher education experience a lot of stress and have to deal with many psychological problems. There is a lot of attention to stress among young people and students, but we also see that the causes are often difficult to identify. As you know, I have instructed RIVM to do a large, quantitative measurement of the mental health of students. We expect the results of research into the exact causes in 2020. As a result, we can see what action can be taken. In the meantime, we can see that in quality agreements there is real investment in resources that should benefit the well-being of students. The honest answer is that we see a lot of stress among students, but it is very difficult to put a finger on where the cause is. I spoke to psychologists at the university on Monday, namely at the VU. They find it very difficult to identify exactly where the cause is. It will also be a combination of causes. With students we see what we can do to set up a targeted follow-up approach. The research results are coming up next year. Then I come to the profiling fund and the board grants in the MBO and the student fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u14	On the previous point, Mr Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u15	I look forward to the results of that study, but next year may be in about six weeks or over a year. Is there anything more to explain?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u16	Around the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u17	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u18	Summer of 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u19	Yes. Then I'll get to the profiling fund. With Mr Wiersma, I believe that the awareness of the profiling fund for those entitled to it really needs to be improved. We're working on that, too. We also trained student deans to make sure they are aware of these possibilities. We also make sure they know how to advise students on this. After all, it is the student deans who are in direct contact with the students and who should point out to them these possibilities. In response to Mr Wiersma's questions, I would also like to make it clear that institutions are legally obliged to grant a benefit from the Profile Fund to any student who fulfils the conditions, even if that means that the ceiling is exceeded. The setting of a ceiling for the categories of force majeure or administrative grant is not permitted. So they can't cannibalize each other. Mr Wiersma asked for that. I would also like to look at signals about the use of dissuasive requirements in the discussions we are having to make to raise awareness of the Profiling Fund. Mr Wiersma asked about that. With him, I believe that you should welcome the fact that students engage in secondary activities that are part of their academic education and that they want, for example, a board grant. In a situation of force majeure, additional requirements certainly do not seem to me to be relevant. So, yes, I want to take a good look at that and I want to get a good picture of it: what additional demands are being made, that happens in many places and how can we talk about this in which we say that this is not really the intention and that we should be happy that students really want to take the opportunity to develop through side activities. I will inform you more about this. Mrs Westerveld asked if it was true that you should be registered for a board scholarship in higher education. That's right. With her I think it is very important that all students can gain administrative experience and I think that their support should be well arranged. It is true that the applicant must now be enrolled in higher education, but that applicant may then distribute that grant within the board. If there's someone in there with an MBO background, he or she can take advantage of it. But you actually want students from the MBO to be able to apply for that scholarship. I'm going to see if we can actually arrange for this enlargement. We'll be able to do that on two routes. This can be done through the normal government grants, but it could also be done through the MBO fund. I think Mrs Westerveld really has a point there. Side activities, board positions, we need to facilitate well for all students. We will also look into whether it is necessary to increase the number of government grants. By the way, we are now seeing an underexhaustment. That is my reason not to say yes to that right away. If there's underexhaustment, then I don't immediately tend to raise it, but we'll take another look at it and ask for it. I think the most important thing is that we also encourage MBO students to carry out administrative functions. Mr Van den Berge asked whether the EUR 10 million reserved would be sufficient for the ambitions we have with the student fund in the MBO. The assessment is indeed that it is. If I had another estimate, I would have made it higher, but we're going to follow it closely. He is absolutely right: that student fund is there for quite a number of purposes. There is now much less money being spent on these targets in the MBO, but I am going to follow that closely. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll get to the loan system. I see a couple of people shooting up right away. Mr Paternotte indicated that student organisations informed him that the factor used to weigh the student debt was still based on the idea that the interest rate was 4.2% on average and that the interest rate would be increased to the ten-year rate. That's right. Indeed, the current factor is still based on this. The weighting factor used to calculate the maximum mortgage has been reduced from 0.75 to 0.45. We have to realize that this is already very low. For example, in a consumer loan it is a factor 2, in the social loan system it is 0.45. But once again, in response to Mr Paternotte's question, when it was determined 0,45 it was true that the ten-year interest rate was taken into account. In the meantime, there are other expectations regarding structural interest rates. That could indeed be reason to ask the Nibud again to look at this opinion and reconsider assumptions about current interest rates. Mr Wiersma and Mr Bruins asked whether the current debt could not be taken as a starting point instead of the original debt. That's a recurring point. I note that there are still a lot of questions about this, so it might be good to explain it again in plenary. In calculating the maximum mortgage amount, expected monthly charges associated with a study debt should be taken into account. I think it makes perfect sense to do that. We must also prevent former students from getting into trouble because of excessive monthly expenses. The monthly amount is annuity calculated and the initial study debt is used for this purpose. It doesn't matter if the former student has just started paying back or has been working for ten or fifteen years, because this doesn't change the amount of the month. The monthly amount may change if, for example, there has been an interim additional repayment. In that case, we have agreed with the mortgage providers that they take this into account. That's what's gonna happen. This is also evident from the latest Platform mortgages. They're taking that into account, it turns out. Even if the former student can show that the remaining discharge period is only short when applying for the mortgage, the mortgage providers will take this into account. That's the deal with the mortgage providers. We also see this happening in practice. We can see that there is a good balance between responsible lending on the one hand and customisation on the other in specific circumstances. But that current debt can therefore be taken into account. We can also see that this is happening in practice. Mr. Chairman. I, too, hear various pleas to put an end to the social loan system. I would, however, like to point out that it is important for a major change in the system to take a good look at how it works in practice. We agreed to this with your Chamber when the social loan system was introduced. The Klever motion was then tabled, which said that in 2020 we are going to carry out a broad evaluation of all aspects of that lending system. A proposal for that evaluation lies with your Chamber. I'm gonna work on those lines. I do think that we should first have the facts on the table and see where the bottlenecks are. And then I say: if we see in that evaluation that there are real bottlenecks, then of course we must also have the willingness to resolve them. Otherwise, you won't have to do an evaluation. But I do want the facts on the table first. That evaluation should set out the facts for any adjustment, but at least for discussion with your Chamber. But first, I'd like to do a thorough investigation. I also fully agree with what Mr Paternotte said, and it is good to stress that what will be decided in the near future is very important that we maintain the investments made in quality agreements. I have shown you this week that there is now real investment in additional teachers, in smaller working groups, really in the quality of higher education. I'd feel like it's deadly and deadly if we were to tormented by that. I would therefore like to say that please keep an eye on these investments in higher education, because these are investments that are really in the interests of the students. Mr Rog and Mr Bruins asked whether I wanted to make it possible for students to use the study voucher to reduce their student debt. The €2,000 study voucher was intended for the students who had to deal with the social loan system before the investments in higher education, the quality agreements, had a real effect. Mr Rog went one step further. He asked whether that amount could not simply be paid in cash. The vouchers were intended to compensate students who were not yet able to benefit from the quality agreements, but those vouchers were also intended to stimulate lifelong development. That is an important point of the cabinet and also of your Chamber, when I listen to the debates in this way. I believe that these vouchers can really contribute to this, because it makes the institutions feel the urgency to develop supply. More than ever, they also want to focus on part-time education and modular education. I will come back to that later. I understand your Chamber's question as to whether there is no other way. I'd like to say a few things about that. Budgetaryly, this is still pretty complicated. Financially, it would mean that there would be a need for a proper cash drawer, of probably some 190 million; we would then have to bring these funds forward. The study voucher was based on the assumption that not everyone who was entitled to it would use it in the first year. It was assumed that it would take place gradually during the five years it could. We suspect that if you got that money in cash or if you could use it to lower your college debt, that would happen a little sooner. It's gonna take a cash drawer. I can't just promise it on my own. I do not want to take the risk that, if I move 190 million forward, I will be given the task of putting 190 million back on my own budget if we are not able to fit it in the wide under the ceiling. Because that is the guarantee that the Ministry of Finance always asks of us: if you raise money, will you tell us where you're going to put money behind it? I can imagine all kinds of means that you do not want to see pushed back. That is the first point: pay attention to what we do. In addition, if we want to do this, we will also need additional resources. We have now calculated that 50 to 100 million extra would be needed. Why is that the case? Because student numbers have increased considerably since the announcement of this measure and the budget for it has not been compensated. When the study vouchers were invented in 2014, it was thought that there should be funds for 100% of the students foreseen in 2014 that they could claim them. Since then, student numbers have grown harder. That amount is not proportionately compensated. Why not? Why didn't we want to do that right away? Because it was also assumed that not everyone would use those vouchers. I am thinking, for example, of European students who have studied with study funding here and who have since returned to their own countries. They're entitled to that money, too, if you cash out. I can easily imagine that they find it an attractive proposition to come and collect that money, but if they have a study voucher that they can use again in the Netherlands, they will not use in all cases. I should also like to point out that 26,000 right holders have already received a letter about the voucher they are entitled to. They should now, if you do not want to add 50 to 100 million, receive a letter that will actually reduce that amount. So I understand the idea behind it and I also understand what you want to do for students, but I am dealing with a number of complicated themes that I do not have an answer to right away and which are also subject to a number of risks that I would like to take into account first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u20	Were these the answers to the questions about the loan system?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u21	This was the end of this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u22	Then I give the floor to Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u23	I would like to go back to the general principle of the loan system. I'm looking at the mood in this room. I am looking at the coalition parties, of which two out of four have in any case expressed themselves very explicitly in favour of reintroducing a basic grant. Many political parties have advocated the restoration of an additional scholarship for students with low-income parents. Many political parties are in favour of reducing debt building among students. Is the Minister actually listening to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u24	Yeah, I listen to that very well. But I also like to keep my end of the bargain. And the agreement, which has also been made widely with your Chamber, is that in 2020 we are going to evaluate this loan system very well so that we can find out exactly where these bottlenecks are and what you can do about them. I always like to do it in the next order. I'd like to get the facts on the table first. What exactly are the issues? To come up with solutions from this point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u25	If only that were true! That only happened at every point, that every meeting here in the Chamber was taken into account! I did a little digging, because I expected this answer from the Minister. On December 12, 2012, it was the coalition parties VVD and PvdA that I was also part of at the time who argued not to register the student debt with the BKR. An adopted motion was widely supported by the Chamber. But what do we see seven years later? The student debt does count for the maximum mortgage amount. I ask the Minister why, in this case, the agreement made with the Chamber is not taken into account?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u26	It is good that Mr Kuzu is asking that question. I can reassure him. The agreement at that time was not registered with the When it comes to student debt, nothing is registered with the BKR. But it's a good thing you're looking at your monthly expenses when you're making a mortgage. That's also in the interests of the former student. That is also to prevent people from over-indebtedness and from getting into trouble. But no registration at the BKR, that was the deal. And that deal is like a house.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u27	We can make that motion come out. The underlying idea behind that agreement was that the BKR registration would not affect the maximum amount of mortgage that could be applied for by start-ups on the housing market. Times have changed, too. We see there's a tight spot in the housing market. We see that in the big cities and student cities in particular getting a house costs to buy a house, renting a house with real claws with money. In the meantime, therefore, the situation has got worse compared to 2012. I am very sorry that the Minister refers to past agreements when it comes to doing nothing in the short term about abolishing the loan system and reintroducing a stock exchange, which is completely different in terms of student debt. I have to say that I find that inconsistent. And there's no question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u28	Then you won't get an answer either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u29	Then I'll go to Mr Futselaar. Or was Mr. Rog first. Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u30	I don't need a minister to abolish a loan system. That is what the Chamber should do, but that is a discussion that we will continue at another time. I'm interested in those study vouchers. They were also meant for Lifelong Learning. The Minister says it's a nice idea that was put there, but I don't have the money. I'll just paraphrase it. Isn't it obvious at least to remove the limitation that the voucher can only be used between five and ten years after obtaining a diploma? Now when you graduate, you're about 22 years old. Then you are entitled to that voucher between the 27th and the 32nd, which I dare say is about the period in which people have the least need for further training in their careers. So it seems like a very strange limitation that, if you think of conspiracy theories, may have been deliberately laid down to ensure that that voucher will not be used. Isn't it pretty convenient and easy to remove that limitation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u31	I understand that question, too. This has significance for the implementation at DUO. It means you have to keep up with all that much longer-term. It also means that the budget will be in other years. I understand all your questions about that. I also understand that you are thinking: we can also decorate it in a way that might be more appropriate to the wishes of former students. I understand that very well, but I cannot, without looking very carefully at it, say: it can and cannot be done this way. Cash transfers also pose a risk to other parts of the budget. You have to look very closely at the performance by DUO and we have to look very closely at the budgets. I am prepared to take a serious look at this, if you would give me a moment, other than that I am now saying in this debate: it is possible or not. If necessary, let us set out a number of scenarios along the lines of: this choice room would be there and that means the following. I can see that in all these questions I also encounter many complex factors, with which I have the task of dealing with them carefully. For you also do not want me to say very easily now 'Oh, the cash slide, I can' and that I will have to come back to you later with: yes, that means that the work pressure devices have to go backwards. That is not something that I think we find very pleasant here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u32	I would like a little more information from the Minister, because I think the Minister is saying to us now: I already have a problem anyway. If that's the case, it might be useful if we know that. What I also want to know is: why hasn't the Minister taken into account that the cohort students who can use it actually operationalise everyone from the very first moment that voucher? If that has not been calculated, the Minister has a point. But I don't know why she organized it that way. After five years, we all have to be able to claim it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u33	This system was chosen at the time with the agreement of the Chamber. Between five and ten years, everyone can claim that. 100% of the number of students was provided for. There is a budget for this and it can be done over a period of five years. On the basis of all kinds of models, series were then calculated in the budget. Those series didn't assume that everyone in year one would immediately call on that voucher. Nor is it very realistic to assume that. I'd be happy to put some things together for you. I notice that there are always many proposals, such as: how else can that be? Those proposals are not so simple. We also need to change laws for that. It has financial consequences. It affects the room for rhythm in the budget. It has consequences for commitments that have already been made to people at the moment. If you give me the room to sort all this out and send a letter to your Chamber about it, I am very willing to do so, so that you can make a well informed choice: what about these different scenarios relative to each other? I imagine we'll send you one of those letters for Christmas.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u34	Then that's a promise too. Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u35	I would like to continue with the revision of the loan system. I also made a point of this in the first term. The Minister talks about "in the course of 2020.' Does the Minister realise that this means that nothing will be settled before 2021 and that it will be properly lifted over the elections? The next cabinet will then take this, probably with the cabinet formation. I assume that's a conscious strategy. There is a simple solution in the amendment that we have tabled in order to be able to meet the students as of next year, i.e. in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u36	The amendments will probably be discussed later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u37	Yes, but now that Mr. Bishop is asking,...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u38	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u39	...I can also give a reaction to it right away. Well, I guess we're done with that. I understand what you want with the motion, but what was so disappointing to me about the SGP was the way it was covered. You're doing something in the cover that just doesn't make that cover sound. You are mixing the revenue and expenditure framework, and I believe that yesterday was also shared in an interruption that goes against the agreements we have. So I can't go along with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u40	Here we have exactly the same logic in The Hague that everyone in the Netherlands constantly stumbles over: we have our tubes and it has to stay inside those tubes! Isn't a gambling tax just part of the general budget? Then you can say, "Okay, we'll see that"? That is exactly what the amendment is doing, because we are saying that it is being collected for this purpose. It then becomes part of the general budget and is regulated. That can't be an argument, can it? Moreover, this is not the first time anyone has made such a proposal. It has been used more often as cover and then it did not apply: yes, but it exceeds the frameworks we have agreed on. That kind of formalistic argument, Mr. President... I'm sorry to sound a little angry, but I'm just sad. We must not accept that kind of argument. You can't make a policy like that. So I urge the Minister to take a serious look at it. Let's help those students! We do not need extensive research when it comes to pressure, the feeling of burn-out states and that sort of thing. Help must come now! And that can't take three years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u41	There's nothing wrong with a little emotion, Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u42	I fear I am not going to relieve Mr Bishop of his grief today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u43	Mrs Van den Hul, it was quiet for a moment, because we had to process this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u44	I would like to come back to the issue of loan interest. The same unnecessary increase in student loans as we do is fortunate. But I would like to repeat once again the question I asked yesterday: why take the proceeds to the state treasury first? This is ultimately at the expense of education. Why can't it be from the general budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u45	I believe that Mr Nijboer has repeatedly asked for this in the General Financial Reviews. Mrs. Van den Hul is doing it here again. I gave her an answer in writing. That is simply the answer you received from the Minister of Finance. I know that Mrs Van den Hul is dissatisfied with the answer, but she is not going to get it better than that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u46	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u47	Mr. Chairman. Then I come to education and the labour market and a Lifelong Development. Education, higher education and MBO are preparing for the labour market, but at the same time we also see that developments are moving fast. For example, digitalisation is changing the labour market very quickly. Mr Wiersma expressed his concern as to whether education could keep up with developments in the labour market. He argued for greater flexibility in the provision of education. I heard him say "more flavors." I endorse his plea. Can we no longer join the demand of workers and of some young people for more tastes in the way and structure of education? I would like to say that many students also benefit from the structure of a permanent training programme, which you do on a campus with other students in an established curriculum. Let's not lose sight of that either. When I spoke recently to the student organisations, they also expressed their concerns: don't go too fast to flexibilise everywhere, because then something will also be lost. Academic formation is also done with each other. But for some students, I agree very much with Mr Wiersma: flexibility and more flexibilisation is a solution, for example for working adults, for whom the combination of work and learning is made easier. I therefore think it is very important that this flexibility should be introduced. After all, we all want a lifetime of development to become the norm. Then you must have a flexible offer and customization. Fortunately, a lot is already happening in that area. Participation in adult training in the Netherlands is above average in Europe. We are also doing a lot in this area, so much so that I sometimes think: what experiment is this again? In higher education, experiments were launched in 2016 to make part-time and dual training for workers more flexible and attractive. Mr Wiersma specifically asked about this dual training in HBO, the combination of work-learning. Can't we get some kind of bbl for HBO? This is dual training, because it is always a combination of work with a contract of employment and learning. That there can be further development and that further steps can be taken, I very much agree with him, but we already have that combination. We also work in higher education with the experiment learning outcomes. I noticed that it unleashes a lot of energy and enthusiasm. Working with learning outcomes enhances the experience of relevance, because you can really take your learning experience out of your work and look at what your further education looks like on that basis. You can make your experience in your professional practice relevant for your education. This gives a very nice interaction between theory and practice and shows that cooperation with employers needs to be intensified. The experiment has also led to a very good and positive development that fortunately the influx of adults into HBO has grown again after years of decline. We must also want that, because that is a good sign and it is urgently needed, including for the labour market and to ensure that individuals remain sustainable. In this context, Mr Wiersma also asked if I could respond to extending full-time training with training on the practical route and in distance learning. Dual learning is a form of such a practice route in HBO. That is really the bbl of higher education, an important form. We also need to strengthen it, and I very much agree with Mr Wiersma. This is also happening, for example through the SME pathway initiative in HBO. Furthermore, it is increasingly common in part-time HBO for a student's workplace to be used as part of the training and that the skills and experience acquired are also included in the training. In the experiment on learning outcomes, practical learning is also what Mr Wiersma wants to see more of. This is a standard part of the approach in these flexible training courses. He certainly has a point when he says: digitalisation offers great opportunities for distance learning. They should also be used even better in higher education in order to increase the quality of education, but also to allow for more flexible education. This requires the educational materials to be open and available online. And I also see very good moves in that area. In the acceleration plan of VSNU and the Association of Colleges, we also see that they are working on this. We would like to support that. We hope to achieve economies of scale more quickly. In fact, I would also like to say to Mr Wiersma that digitalisation is best reflected in a blended form of education, i.e. in a combination of digital learning with partial contact education, for example on campus. For example, we see very good results in teacher training. Many students attach importance to the fact that, in addition to digital distance learning, there is also contact education. Those blended forms are therefore very valuable and as far as I am concerned they get a higher flight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u48	Were you done with this part?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u49	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u50	Then Mr Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u51	There is no doubt that a lot is happening, but it is actually too little and it is also too slow. I understand that the Minister is listing what is going on here, but I do need to see some sort of monitor about where we want to go and how fast that goes. I would find it interesting if the Minister wanted to develop it. Let me give two examples. You say that we already have that bbl, that working and learning, in HBO. Can you therefore guarantee me that this will always be done with a contract of employment with a collective agreement-compliant salary? No, that can't be guaranteed. If you ask how many students do that: that's really a handful. That's in the MBO a full route, in the HBO it's not and in the wo you don't even have it. My question is whether you want to create this and see that we develop it faster and better and bring it to maturity. My second question concerns distance learning. Do you agree with me that this could be a way of offering, for example, a second education cheaper? What are you going to do to make an effort to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u52	Two things. I think it is good that we are really going to map out what is going on in the field of dual learning, because a lot is happening. Sometimes it's hard to have an overview of what that all looks like. It is perhaps a good thing that I give you an overview of what is going on in the strategic agenda, because then we can say a little more precisely what we want to speed up and where there is still room for improvement. Then we may also be able to agree on this with the partners in education. Where do we see opportunities for a further offer to develop in a lifetime and where do we see that it really can do a bit more? There is, of course, also a lot in pilots and experiments, all of which are still being evaluated. On the basis of these evaluations, we must try to anchor it in the law, so that it becomes more of a standard working method. I understand Mr Wiersma's impatience very well. I know that from other debates. He really wants to make pace with Life Long Developing. We really need more for that in higher education. Then digital distance learning and tuition fees. As an institution tuition fee, if I am right, it is also included in the Act on Language and Accessibility, which you will soon be discussing.Institutions for students in the Netherlands who do a second study should not ask the student more than what it costs. I believe that this is also the implementation of a motion by Mr Van Meenen If you have a digital offer, if it is only or to a large extent distance learning and if that is really substantially cheaper for the institution, they will have to reduce that institution tuition fee. We are going to embed this very clearly in the law, following Mr Van Meenen's motion. So you have a point. Around that institution tuition, we do two things. For the non-EEA students it may be more. We are now really going to make a distinction: for the Dutch and the EEA students there should not be more than what it costs. So if you're gonna develop a cheap variant, you're gonna need a matching tuition fee. That makes perfect sense to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u53	Thanks, but we also need to be honest. There is simply no offer of full distance learning. We have to realize that. That is not my question, but a statement. I also asked about the employment contract in the dual sections. If you want to do that seriously, you have to. So I would have liked to have answered that question. I would like to give an example, and I would like to ask a question about that. It's about flex study. That's that you pay per credit for your education. That has a big advantage. If you fill in part of the year in a different way, for example with volunteering or entrepreneurship, you don't have to pay the full pound, but only a part. Now we have an experiment for that, but that's such a typical example where it goes incredibly slow. We just have five institutions participating, even with a limited number of training courses.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u54	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u55	I would like it as much as the Minister would say: I'm going to push it, I'm going to encourage them, I'm going to grab them by the turds and drag them into getting this movement done faster there. The experiment had some moments when you could join. I can't do that anymore. Is the Minister prepared to see if we can manage to create an additional moment for institutions so that the Minister can convince them to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u56	For the record, let me just say this. We had an extra moment in 2019. Mr Wiersma is disappointed by the enthusiasm in the institutions, but it is not that I can force them to participate. And I also think that in experiments you should be a little cautious with the numbers. We can say everywhere that it has to be more and more and faster. We usually do it this way with an experiment and I think it's a sensible way of working. We do this with a number of institutions. We've agreed on a careful evaluation. And as far as I'm concerned, after that, we're gonna see how we can just anchor that in the law. But if you wanted an additional influx moment now, that would mean that it would no longer have any significance for the evaluation, which is already next year. Or it would mean that we should reverse the evaluation, and that does not seem to me to be something Mr Wiersma wants. What about the dual HBO with the employment contracts? I'll send it to you in the overview I give you. What's the usual thing to do there? I do not have that overview at the moment; I do not know what it is like with all these dual training courses. Mr. Chairman. It might have made more sense to do it earlier when we were talking about the Van Rijn Committee, but I would like to say a few words about the following. By some, what happened was understood as less appreciation for the alpha, gamma and medical sciences. Let me also say here, in this house, for my part, that that is not the meaning of that decision. I find, with many others, that the breadth of science, and the combination of all these disciplines, is so incredibly valuable. We also see that there is increasing cooperation between these disciplines. But let us not be tempted to discuss interest. I understand the temptation is when you do such a slide. That is why, for my part, we must appreciate all these disciplines with equal enthusiasm. For there is no innovation and no major transition in this country that can be achieved if we do not include behavioral scientists. And so I can go a long way further on the question of how all these disciplines are interacting with each other. Let us not be tempted to fight each other over this. I wouldn't think that would make much sense. In particular, let us see how together we can ensure that science is strengthened in a broad sense. I'm getting to the last block, over the MBO.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u57	You have a question about the previous point, Mrs Westerveld?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u58	Yes, unless the Minister goes into the Van Rijn Committee a little more extensively later, but I had the impression that these were the last comments she wanted to make on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u59	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u60	That is why I would like to ask a question about this. The minister says, "Let's make sure we don't let ourselves get played against each other." Of course, I totally agree with her. But at the same time we see that there is a shift, and we also see that this leads to great unrest and that institutions indicate that people are going to be fired. And it is precisely training where the highest student numbers are. They'll end up being the victim of that shift. The minister then says: yes, but it's about the lumpsum, so universities decide how they distribute the money. I'd like to tell her that's a pretty crazy observation after all. You give an incentive to institutions to distribute money in a different way, and then you say: yes, but they have a right to know. I would like to ask the Minister whether she can also give an idea of the effects, not only for next year, but also in the long term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u61	That is a question I think I have already addressed. With regard to the short-term impact, the following: No institution is going down on it. They decide how they distribute the money between their faculties. It was and it is. I can't give you any insight into what happens per institution. It is really up to the institutions themselves. They have their own distribution models and make their own decisions. As far as the longer term impact is concerned, we have just said that we are going to do two things for the longer term. At your request, we are conducting an investigation into the adequacy of funding, and an investigation into the costs of the various training courses: do we have a clear picture of this? This will determine the distribution of resources for the longer term. In addition, there is still the issue that now plays an important role, for example, in the humanities: what about the small courses that do not have very students, but which are so valuable to science and also to society? We will have to discuss with each other what they need to do on a permanent basis so that they do not have constant doubts about their survival. That is a discussion that we really need to have in connection with the cost investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u62	The Minister is now actually calling on the institutions not to implement something that we are asking for here. That key will be adjusted. This can indeed have little effect over the next two years, but for the long term, after the next two years, the institutions certainly expect effects. That is what the Minister himself states in the documents we get. I would like to ask again: what does this mean, not necessarily for the next two years, but really in the long term? So what are the effects for the institutions, even if you look at the finances, at the money that institutions get?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u63	I just gave that answer. I don't think it makes any sense to repeat that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u64	The third question, Mr. Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u65	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I had a talk yesterday about talent. The Minister began her speech with that, but I have a further question to ask. I gave examples of countries that have a very active strategy and take away Dutch talent. We have to do our best to get people here. The Minister actually asked himself whether we have a clear profile. I would like to ask the Minister: what is this profile and what sharp choices do we make to prevent talent from entering the rest of the world and not coming to the Netherlands? Is the Minister prepared to develop such a strategy? Finally, Mr President. I would like to give the Minister an opportunity to comment on the practical research in HBO. I kind of missed that. I would like the Minister to add a few words to that, because we think that is very important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u66	To begin with, I believe that I have also answered that question in writing. I agree with you that practical education in HBO is incredibly important, especially for many innovations in the regions, especially for the connection with regional business and especially for SMEs. We have given this an impetus as a cabinet. One of the things we also want to do in the strategic agenda is to see how we can further strengthen this practical research. Because it is extremely important for the regional embedding of higher education and for cooperation between companies and institutions. For innovation in SMEs in particular, it is so incredibly important that I see real value in this for the future. I see Mr Wiersma laughing. I feel that I have given him a satisfactory answer. Mr. Chairman. About the strategy. With our colleagues from EZK and from Foreign Trade, we are looking at how we can better integrate knowledge and science into our country strategies, taking the question of where we need people, where we want to strengthen our sectors. Take our strategy around artificial intelligence. It makes sense to look at talent in that respect. Those are clear choices you make, such as "we really want to put profile into that." Sometimes it's about attracting talent, sometimes it's also about attracting students that we want not only for the labour market but also because they can invent Dutch knowledge abroad. Look at what's happening at the University of Wageningen. It is very nice that there are many international students who are not meant to work in the Netherlands later, but that they can show in the world how fantastic new technologies are being worked on in the Netherlands in agriculture and in the production of food. They are also an extremely important factor in diplomacy for our knowledge and our business. So it is both about attracting talent for the Dutch labour market, and about attracting diplomats for our knowledge and our business abroad. My answer to Mr Wiersma is that it is therefore more than just a strategy to prevent labour shortages. It's much wider than that. Mr. Chairman. I finally come to the love of Mrs Kuik, her darling, that is what I think she said, namely secondary vocational education. It might be good to take a look at the development that the MBO has been going through in recent years. We do not think enough about it, but it is incredibly beautiful what has happened in that sector. At the MBO we see that the quality of education has greatly improved in recent years. This is reflected, for example, in the quality of the examination; the quality of the diplomas and their quality assurance. Institutions have their finances in order and pay attention to the quality of professional practice. I can go on for a while, but there we are very well aware of the fact that working together on quality really takes this sector further. It is still just a lecture, but perhaps I can say from this place that I will miss Mr Heerts in this place in the MBO very much. But that may be true of many of you. I just spoke with Mr Wiersma about the importance of cooperation between the HBO and the region. Of course, that also applies and perhaps even stronger for the MBO. There we also see very good examples, for example in the Regional Investment Fund, but also in the way in which the ROCs are committed to the position of vulnerable young people in that region. That is not an easy task, but they really do it with a lot of effort. Mr. Chairman. Then there are the specific questions. Mrs Kuik, Mr Wiersma and Mr Bruins asked for green picking. It is good to say here that we do indeed see in some places or at least suspect that students are going to work before they have completed a training course and that there is also some interest from the business community. But there are also students who, of their own accord, quit their studies and get to work, because they think they can earn a nice living, or because they've had it with school for a while. There are a lot of reasons for that. And it doesn't always have to be wrong. But I very much agree with everyone who says: it would be good if as many students as possible could obtain a starting qualification, that wonderful MBO diploma. As discussed earlier with you in the AO on early school leaving on 31 October, I'm going to ask CBS to see how big this green picking is and where we see a voluntary switch. And yes, I believe that it would be very nice if employers made as many bbl-spots as possible. I will also discuss this with VNO-NCW and the SBB. I will therefore say: make sure that happens, because we will all benefit from this later. But I also tasted in your questions that some people say that they are obliging employers to do so. That's a step I can't take. I cannot oblige employers from which students come to work from the MBO who do not have a diploma to do so. There are a lot of unskilled workers. I cannot say to those employers: you are obliged to ensure that that student obtains a diploma or to make an offer. We can stimulate it as much as we can. I'd also like to see if we can make administrative agreements on that. I would like it if this could be done and if the business community would also show that it sees this importance and that it wants to work for it, but do you realize that I cannot commit to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u67	It is indeed an effort obligation, because we see that the number of cases of green picking is increasing and we have a very nice route, the work-learning pathway, the bbl-route. Can the Minister also raise the question of whether green picking takes place, in particular, in sectors where there is no learning path? Then we can do something about that. I have also heard that the Minister wants to conclude an agreement with the employers to do something about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u68	Let's talk about the last one. We have regular administrative consultation with the SBB. That is also where the business community, which is partly responsible for these qualifications, is at the table. I will put the issue on the agenda there and I will also address them and say: make sure that happens in the various sectors. I agree with you that it is not only in the interests of the individual student, but also of the employer and of society that as many young people as possible obtain initial qualification. Mr. Chairman. Then the final point is the master's degree and the master's programme. Mrs Kuik has asked how that can be done and whether it can no longer be done. The same applies to Mr Bruins, whom I would like to thank for his report. What you're asking is: wouldn't it be nice if students who have completed a MBO course could go into further research for another year in order to practice that course even better? In a number of places we have very nice examples of this. One of them is the training of restorer, in which restaurateurs can explore their profession in such a way that they can really restore the most beautiful paintings. But I do want to make a clear distinction with the Associate Degree. That's really level five. We have decided in the Netherlands that we do this at HBO. That is also in an international qualification line. It shouldn't be there. The master companion route is not from the public funded education, but from the industry itself. The industry could develop it and say: that is excellence in our profession. It would be nice, that's how I feel about you, if we knew more of those routes. It shows that practicing a course at top level is very nice. I want to promise that I will arrange it with SBB. After all, it belongs to the branches; all these branches are located in SBB. I will deal with SBB whether there is a demand for this and whether it is possible to organise this type of deepening education in the sector. It's real education from the industry itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u69	That is in itself a nice commitment, but in the HBO and in the wo there is a master's degree. Our commitment is also to make that professional master possible at the MBO. That's what the question is about. It's not about the crafts, but it's about the master in the MBO.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u70	Then I'd like to start the conversation first to see if there's a need for that in the MBO. As a warning in advance, this does not fit in the international qualification structure. I also hope you want to see the financial consequences of such an extra master, because they are there. But I'm going to talk to you more often. I get the question about how much of this is needed by employers. I think that is very relevant, because we should not think of new training routes that are ultimately not in demand. I think it's a job of the industry to do that. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I have one amendment, because I have already discussed the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u71	Mr Van den Berge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u72	Does repeating an unanswered question also count as an interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u73	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u74	Oh, thank God. I asked yesterday in my speech about the major problem of internship discrimination and about diversity coaches. I'd like to repeat that here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u75	We answered that question in writing. I have indicated that I would like to see if a diversity coach can help each institution to avoid internship discrimination. So I'd like to get to work and see if that's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u76	Mr Wiersma also has one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u77	Also an unanswered question. The answer may be in the set, but I didn't hear the Minister say anything about entrepreneurship. I didn't hear the word either. I regret that, because this is important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u78	An unanswered question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u79	The question I'd like to ask is how we're going to help students...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u80	No? Then this one counts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u81	...to be able to combine that with a study. The Minister says in her written answers that she does not want to make any extra effort because she does not see the need for it. I referred to it as flex study, but the Minister does not see the need for it. Intellectual property is a major problem among students. They have discussions with universities and do not always know how to fight universities. My question is whether the Minister is prepared to make a plan to take entrepreneurship to a higher level.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u82	That wasn't an unanswered question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u83	Yes!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u84	No, no, no. This question has been answered in writing, but you do not agree with the answer. So you are going to have a discussion on this, and it counts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u85	Those questions were answered in writing. I can go read that whole set. Mr Wiersma may want more when it comes to entrepreneurship and education, but there is an incredible amount going on. In the MBO this is the most chosen elective. Look at what happens in HBO: a lot of students start a business during their education. That's what we see in scientific education. The other day I was allowed to sit at dinner with the student who turned the hyperloop into an enterprise. So we see it in all areas. It is one of the most popular choice parts among students. So, yes, with you, I think this is very nice. It's really taking a pretty good flight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u86	I'd like to return to the master companion's route. I hear very carefully positive words from the Minister, and I am very pleased with them, as well as with the appreciation she expresses for craftsmanship. I'm gonna go with Mrs. Kuik and see how we proceed with this. We'd like to go a little further. But I also understand the role of the industries and I respect them. That is why I specifically mentioned in my contribution the approximately twelve vocational schools for specialist craftsmanship in the Netherlands. They are at a very high level of specialism. Can the Minister also take the special role of these vocational schools into account in her discussions? Could there possibly be some sort of pilot very soon, on an experimental basis, to shape such a master route in conversation with the industries?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u87	I'd be happy to say so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u88	In the context of the unanswered questions, I missed a response in the written set to the proposal we made on the student card.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u89	That's in the written answers. The short version of that answer is that you assume that the flexible bet of 220 days a year is progress for each student, but it is not, because that is less than if you now have a weekly card. In that reply you also see that breaking the contract with the carriers can lead us to pay more for it, if you so wish, so I was not very enthusiastic about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u90	I had asked another question about the MBO teachers in relation to the function mix, the failure of the function mix and the lack of the flow of MBO teachers to higher pay scales. In fact, I'm halfway through a motion with Mr Wiersma. I'll tell you what's going on over dinner. The question is whether we should not get rid of this job mix, as with primary and secondary education, in order to immediately ensure that the money reaches generically higher teacher salaries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u91	I must continue to give Mr Kwint an answer as to what exactly is going on with the function mix in the MBO. There is indeed a critical piece of participation. Allow me to return to it in the second term. I'm guessing it's gonna be in response to a motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u92	I wanted to say that there is a risk, but if we agree, I will withdraw it with love and pleasure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u93	I am going to do my best to achieve that with Mr Kwint, but that is quite a challenge. Two more amendments. Firstly, Mr Van der Molen's amendment to make money available for the recruitment of extra students for the Dutch teacher training programmes. I myself asked for the report from the Academy, which shows that the urgency is great. We also need to look at the situation in the structural sense with regard to the training or the study. There is also a relationship with the curriculum review. I think it is a good idea to make an effort to get more students now, so this amendment is judged Chamber. As a result of the cabinet position, we will discuss it further. Then there is the amendment to item No. 30 members Westerveld and Van den Berge. Here I give the same answer as I gave Mr Bishop. I have a problem with the cover coming from another department, but that doesn't have to be a problem for you. Apart from that, it is an agreement from the coalition agreement and I do not feel free to open it on the spot. No, I don't think your cover is acceptable, so I advise against this amendment. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to the end of my reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u94	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u95	Mr. Chairman. I have actually built up my answer quite clearly, but that also has to do with yesterday's contribution to the portfolio I have. In my introduction, I will make a few brief comments. Then I have a very big block about staff shortages and how to deal with them. By the way, when I start that block, let me tell you how I built it. Then you know exactly which parts are included. And then I have another category in which I answer questions that have remained open and have not been answered in writing. I'll walk it by group. I therefore hope to have the opportunity to respond to a number of amendments tabled in my area. Mr President, my introductory remarks. I agree with the comments made by my colleague towards your colleague and my former colleague, Harm Bertema. I would also like to congratulate Mr Kops, because I know from my own experience that it is really not easy to take over a budget when you are never in that kind of debate. A nice bycatch is that we spotted a former teacher in him. We'll add it to the list. I'll come back to that later. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Members of Parliament for the input they have provided in this budget debate. And that is also very justifiable when we see what time we live in. It may be a little unusual and it did not happen in this Chamber, but I would also like to thank the children who have responded in many ways in recent days. It happens all the time. I get an envelope all the time. That is where beautiful drawings and letters come out on many different subjects that concern them. Sometimes it doesn't even have to be about my wallet. But in recent days a lot of mail has been delivered, both digitally and simply via mail delivery. I've had beautiful drawings. I notice then that the teachers use the situation very nicely for 'citizenship', that is what I call 'citizenship'. We very much like to see this broad in education, including in primary education. What also strikes me is that sometimes children can express very clearly what is happening and how they experience it themselves. 'Cause sometimes they're in the middle of it. They also have to do with it, for example when it comes to staff shortages and, in particular, the shortage of teachers. Of course, I'm not gonna read them all. I haven't been able to read them all either, because I also had to prepare for the answer. I unpacked one from a girl named Michelle. One sentence of her struck me very much. I've come across them sometimes halfway on banners, but she's made a whole, full sense of it. She says, "You may have given a lot of money, but it's not enough forever." I thought that was a very nice phrase. I also think that a lot of these children are going to go very far. At least this girl knows how to formulate very well. Mr. Chairman. That brings me to my third point. It's not enough forever. That's right. We know that we are in a situation where we are sometimes very busy dealing with "acute need." That's what I call it. "We" are just as consciously formulated, because it is of course primarily the schools that are working on it, but the surroundings of those schools may be the government, but they can also be others involved in it, trying to help them in all kinds of ways. Of course, it's important that we do, and sometimes you need paper clips. Some people use that kind of footage or tape or quick fixes. In short, in emergencies, you sometimes have to act quickly. But it is also very important that we do not lose our broad view of the future, even when it comes to education. In that respect, and in particular with regard to this section, Mrs Westerveld's contribution addressed me. She has also pointed this out, looking back at the past, but also looking forward, and not only when it comes to a subject such as staff shortages. We know that there are a lot of issues that require our attention. So it's important to keep an eye on that. It is and-and working on the current deficit, including the shortage of teachers and staff, and on future-proof education. In this budgetary procedure, therefore, I will have to concentrate on the shortage of staff, also because of your legitimate questions about this. Often you also use budgetary treatment to look ahead and to name the larger themes. You know, for example, that we are moving forward in the direction of all the questions that arise around shrinkage. We have already done a great deal about this, but we will have to do a great deal about it. You know that we are in the process of making funding really better, both primary and secondary education. That is simply extremely important, also for all those involved in the school. We will all come back to that, but these are big issues. We're also working on the curriculum. In the coming weeks, this month, you can also expect a letter from me about this. After fourteen years, we are going to see whether we can take new steps in this area, also in the interests of education, even when it comes to the enormous workload, which is also there because of a great deal of overload. I also mention education and care. You have had a letter about this recently. That is also such a subject that we will now have to park for a later moment, but it is important to have said that to each other here. It is very good that, in the short term, we should address all the problems that exist, including in the longer term, but we should keep that view on the future and on future-proof education with each other. Mr. Chairman. The fourth point I wish to make concerns the following. Education is an example of this, but we are also facing a fundamental problem at this time. At least it's gonna be very visible. That's the problem of representation, representation. If you hear, like yesterday, the many reactions of people who have given their views on how they experience education in all kinds of places in the country, then you notice that people do not always feel heard. Just think about what happened to the farmers. Think of what else we see happening in other places. Care is also a recent example. People do not always feel heard and insufficiently represented. This is not only a problem between politics on the one hand and society and civil society on the other, but also a problem in civil society itself, in which all kinds of organisations have taken a position on behalf of certain groups, for example, to make agreements with the government and ensure that they are implemented. We are not going to solve this issue with each other for a moment, but in education we have in recent years, I can even say: decades have seen the development that we have laid down a lot of responsibilities in society, among the school boards, for example. Think about financial responsibilities and the space to make choices, but also think about personnel policy. That has been a very conscious choice: the responsibility for this lies with the administrations. And you can see that at this point something is not going well at this time, even in the way in which it should be given substance in these difficult circumstances. I'll come back to that later. But that also applies to addressing where the solution should come from. And if there are solutions, is there sufficient support for that? This is not an issue on which we will have the complete answer, not even in this budget debate, but it is good to pay attention to it. This applies not only to education, but it is something broader in this society. And when it comes to education, there is also something very double in this point. Take the teachers, for example. They say they don't feel heard. They often also say that they feel unappreciated. And the other side of the story is that we are making a huge effort to further stimulate this type of profession, because that is not really what education is all about. In the pot, it's happening carefully now. At the vo you see movements now too. I will come back to that in response to Mr Van Meenen's questions. Maybe just maybe anything that happens now can have something like profit. You know that Johan Cruijff once said: every disadvantage has an advantage. Maybe that career formation will be given further impetus again. Because that is precisely an instrument to express that ownership of people: you must feel heard and you must be able to deliver your input. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the last comment in my introduction. My colleague has already had her share, but together we are defending the cabinet proposals that have landed in the 2020 budget. We have sent it to you, already with Prince's Day, and of course we stand for it. In my situation there is a speciality: Friday an erratum was added, in the form of a covenant and agreements made. I will go into what happened after Friday, because it has indeed been a bit hectic weekend. Some sort of erratum has been added to the budget. I am in favour of this, of course, but these are the cabinet proposals that we have made, and this is the debate in which we talk about this and in which the Chamber can give its opinion on what has been submitted to it. Mr. Chairman. Those were my introductory remarks. Then I'll go straight to my big block about the staff shortage.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u96	The Minister points out, as he calls it, last Friday's erratum. I already have a point about that, in anticipation of the block that follows. Yesterday, this place was full of teachers. Also the squares and the Dam were full; the minister saw that. Those teachers were really clear. They said: this is not our agreement; we have very great structural problems that call for structural solutions and not for occasional money, as has now become available with that covenant. What is the Minister's message to the teachers who laid down the work so massively yesterday?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u97	I shall come back to that, of course, in the answer. That goes without saying. I've just given you a brief description of the state-law situation. A cabinet makes suggestions. A cabinet submits proposals to the Chamber. In my situation that is something special: an erratum, which has been added. That's what we're discussing here, of course. It has also not escaped me that there has been some fuss, quite a fuss, about this covenant. I shall, of course, deal with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u98	Good. Then Mrs Van den Hul will have the opportunity to discuss this further.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u99	The first block is the staff shortage. Let me explain how my response will go within this block. I shall begin with the day of yesterday, the strike day, on which I shall make a few comments. Then I will deal with the process of concluding last Friday's covenant, the cancellation of the strike and, in particular, the establishment of the AOb, which finally got its signature from under the covenant. Questions have also been asked about this by your Chamber. Thirdly, I would like to comment on the substance of the staff shortage and how we are working on it. Through the lines of action you know, namely increasing inflow, throughput and outflow, promoting side influx, maintaining teachers for education, quiet reserve, rewarding and improving career prospects and otherwise organising innovation, I will address the questions you have asked about this. Quite recently, we have had a very extensive general discussion on this, but there are a number of new developments, including in the figures, which I will, of course, give you. Following on, I will address the initiatives organised in the cities and regions to tackle the shortage of teachers. An amendment has even been tabled on this. Finally, I will also mention in this block the support we have given to boards and the discussions we have had with them. I have already said something about this in general consultation, but after that there have been all kinds of reports in the world that I do not recognize. So I need to respond to that. You have also asked questions about it. That's what the teacher shortage block is about. Mr. Chairman. Yesterday was quite special, in the sense that November 6th is always a very special day for our home because it is our son's birthday. That continued yesterday, by the way, without me. In addition, Mr Bishop pointed out that yesterday, in Protestant Christian circles, at least in many churches, the Thanksgiving Day for Crop and Labour, as it is officially called, was celebrated. I'm from that tradition. When I have the opportunity, I always go to those kinds of services. You will understand that, in view of my portfolio, it gave a bit of a double feeling that on the Thanksday for Crop and Labour very many people went out with the message: we are not satisfied with what is happening. We have every right to do so, by the way. That gave me a bit of a double feeling, but I'm gonna have to keep that to myself. I'll tell you what, I thought it was impressive, too. Of course, I didn't see the footage until later in the day, because we were sort of trapped in this building together. With all my love, by the way, because we have had a good first term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u100	There were teachers here, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u101	There were indeed a lot of people in the bleachers. There were kids there. That was good to see, too. I've seen drivers, too. So there was a lot of stuff. But I saw, for example, those images from Rotterdam. I come from that area myself. And maybe I could have walked in on that. It is quite extraordinary that I say that, because I am a son of an SME and come from a culture where strike and so not at all. I really have a lot of understanding about this, and I am not saying that to make it as good a decoration here, but I do understand the many concerns of teachers and administrators when it comes to what is happening to them at the moment. They're people with a big heart for education. These are people who face problems and challenges in everyday practice. They usually experience that first. We discussed developments in our labour market in general on 9 October. Yesterday, questions were asked about this too. That labour market is getting tighter and tighter. I also indicated what those figures looked like at the time. I'm not going to repeat all of that now, given the time, but we're already a quarter further. In any case, new figures are known and we can see that the fall in unemployment rates and the increase in job vacancies, including in education, is still a trend that is continuing. This also means that the job vacancy rate, which looks at the number of vacancies in 1,000 employees, is rising. Of the lists given, information and communication are set out in No. 1. You have 65 vacancies per 1,000 fte. After that the catering industry followed with 58 vacancies and the construction with 57 vacancies. Well, there's something going on right now. Education is at the bottom of that list, with 18 vacancies out of 1,000 employees. Of course, those kind of lists don't really matter. You're gonna have to deal with it. That is the situation where teachers, school leaders, administrators, parents and children and everyone involved in a school are involved, and that is a lot to do in this society. This also means that we will have to continue with the approach we have agreed on with each other. I would like to stress that it is a structural approach. The word "structural" was trending topic yesterday. Already in the previous cabinet period was proposed by the VVD and the Labour Party to begin with. That has been extended by me. I will come back to that later, because it was not enough for everything. It is a structural approach in the sense that there is not a single solution to this major social issue, especially because it is a social issue that affects not only education but also society as a whole. We must therefore also do everything we can to ensure that, fortunately, there is also a great deal to be done in this respect, so that the empty spaces that fall there can be filled, that replacement can be provided and that we interest new people again in choosing this beautiful subject. In short, we must continue to do this very hard with each other. Mrs Westerveld pointed a bit to history. Always interesting; here is also a historian. It is true that in history you can also learn lessons and sometimes learn how not to and how to deal with staff shortages. I don't think the picture is entirely right that we've only let it get over us a little bit. There have actually been times not so many years ago in the last period of time that there was just excess, that there was more staff than there were jobs. I shall come back to this in detail, particularly Mr Rog's questions, for example on the WW and the super-statutory regulations. That's also the time when a lot of people went that way. Sometimes there was also room for young teachers. What I think is underestimated is, in particular, that you are not completely in control of the economic situation; when things are going well and when things are not going well. There's also a certain erraticity in it. But the ageing population could have been seen coming. You know what your teachers are. You know the dates of birth. You also know it's slipping a little. That "something to push through" and the fact that there has been quite a fall in pupils in the country may have caused people to think a bit at some point: it may not be all that bad. There were even figures in particular in the p.o. It might still be a little slippery. We are in the middle of it and we now see that that has gone a bit differently than we thought with each other. But it remains very important to keep an eye on the longer term, including the approach we have. We must learn from the moments when we may not have acted sufficiently. I will come back to the very important role that drivers play in this...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u102	You come back to a lot of things, I have the idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u103	That's right, because it's part of the next component.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u104	Yes, but I would like to know: where are you now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u105	I'm at the end of point 1 of part a. I can promise the Chamber that that is my last sentence in this section of the report that the most recent figures will be included in the December letter of Education that you will receive. That is what we have agreed. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to the process and progress towards the covenant, the aborting of the strike and the setting up of the AOb. I can put up a whole story about that, but I'll start with the General Political Reviews, which you also witnessed. You presided over it at the time. At that time, the Prime Minister to the Chamber of Parliament, in particular the group chairmen of the coalition parties who asked for it, but also from the opposition, was asked to give an undertaking that in the coming months additional money would be sought from the budget that had been submitted to the Chamber one day before. At that time, it was also very clear that this is an occasional money, because it is done within the framework of the Navy Note. The Navy's note, as we know, usually doesn't come until early December. That's late. Also because we were to discuss the budget today and yesterday, but also to clarify it, the Minister of Finance has done his best, and he has managed to clarify more precisely what kind of money would be released from the various ministries on three priority issues, which was one of them, but also the PAS. You know, I've said a little bit of a domestic thing before, you know, they're gonna collect. What hasn't been published yet? It's occasional money. That's gotta go to the treasury. He has made funds available for three priority areas. This was one of them. Before that amount was known, we had a conversation with the parties involved in the Tower, a photo of this was also published. Of course, during the period before that, there were also discussions at the national table, among other things, about the subjects that were of interest to us. Finally, last week, we had an exact view of the amount that would become available. Of course, that was also the time to see if you could reach agreements with each other. So we were allowed to bring that out, in anticipation of the Navy's note. That's what happened last week. Mr. Chairman. Then we made agreements and finally sealed them with signatures on Friday. When you talk to people who represent organisations, it goes without saying that they are not there in a personal capacity and that they sign on behalf of their organisation. It has been asked how it is possible, for example, to suggest that the person who signed on behalf of the AOb would not have complied with a mandate. During the conversations we had, we offered room, if they deemed it necessary, to speak back with their supporters. This has also been used by organisations. And of course we're not going to ask about their supporters exactly who they've been talking to. It goes without saying that you will speak to your other board members. In the end, everyone, including the AOb, signed the covenant of their own free will. With this we have been able to seal the agreements on the available money with a signature. It's a little unusual, but I did find it appropriate to the circumstances in which we were sitting to offer room in the covenant to express the expectations and wishes that one still had for the future. And that is indeed the word'structural', although we were glad that at least part of it could be documented in the covenant. Madam President. The strike has not been discussed in our discussions. That's something from the social partners. They're free to make their own choices. I have also been very clear about this and in that sense it has been discussed. I am sticking to my own text: in the very first consultation I said that I respect that. We live in a free country. If you want to express your feelings, you can do so in this country. There's got to be room for that. The choice to abandon the national strike was ultimately a conclusion that was simply made by the parties concerned who had declared that strike. Of course, I have also respected that they have brought it out. There was no pressure on my part. I read somewhere that blackmail would have been carried out, but that is not the case! Mr. Chairman. Finally. On Sunday afternoon we learned from the media that the AOb withdrew from the agreements and also called for a strike. I was just home for ten minutes, and you might know where I've been in the morning. I finally received a short note on Tuesday. In the meantime, I've heard everything from the media. I have, of course, sent a note with a request for clarification. It was actually just a for-the-good-order note and a confirmation that they were no longer behind the signature. I asked for clarification, of course, because you want to know what agreements are worth, also with a view to the future. Can we, because there was no basis, make agreements when things go this way? When I was listening to my colleague, a very brief reaction just came in. I will, of course, talk to them about that. The last thing I'm saying about this part is that I have great respect for the former chairman of the AOb. I think it is a real tragedy for her personally that things have turned out this way, because she has worked for this organisation and for education for many years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u106	We have heard the Minister say several times, now and again, that there is no structural money. Yeah, there's that 16.5 and we're very happy about that, too. But for the rest, there's only occasional money. Here's what's going on. I find that somewhat difficult to reconcile with the great stories of this cabinet about a Wiebes or a Hoekstrafonds, in which billions would be in it. I also find it difficult to reconcile with the 150 that are structurally available to the Defense Department. That money will be there. But on a subject that the Chamber is full of and for which the squares are full, the Minister says: no, we have no structural money for that. How does the Minister explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u107	The House will be further informed in the coming weeks about the fund referred to by Mrs Van den Hul. I think that you count yourself rich, Mrs van den Hul, if you think that all of this will result in structural money. But that aside, because I leave that to the govern ments concerned. When it comes to structural matters, this cabinet has made structural funds available for this cabinet period, including for the specific subject we are discussing today. I have said many times that it is a question of amounts which we can really call substantial. For the salaries, for the workload. We have also been clear: that is what we are making available structural money for this cabinet period. I did manage, also in the covenant, to make structural money available on at least one part of the agreement, namely the VSO, which was requested by the parties concerned. We have come to the conclusion that this is why those signatures have also been put..... that we can use this substantial amount, it is really a large amount, very specific, very good and targeted for 2020 and 2021. Also for the subjects that are included and for which we need more money to be able to do what education on those parts needs. So I can explain that very well. I'm very happy about it, too. In fact, it was no longer expected that this amount could be made available in addition to the large structural amount we had already had. I was glad that these organisations eventually supported this. The happiness was short-lived, because one party fell away.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u108	Mrs Van den Hul, your fifth question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u109	Those teachers yesterday, I think, were very clear. They say: there is now a covenant, but it is not enough! From the school leaders we received today a text with a number of very strong demands. They say: it is very nice what is now lying, but it is not enough. The problems are not occasional. The shortage of teachers is not occasional. You don't bridge a pay gap with occasional money. This requires structural money on the collective bargaining table. Before that, the squares were full yesterday. Their demands are very clear, and I say again: at a time when there is money for a billion-dollar fund, where extra money is structurally available to the Defense Department, why doesn't this cabinet make the choice to invest in education, where the water is on their lips?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u110	This is not the first time I have had this little debate with Mrs van den Hul. We have already done this in other places, and I have already indicated that structural money has been made available for this entire cabinet period. But even after this cabinet period there is that money, if a next cabinet does not suddenly strike a line. You know that can always happen. That money is available for the salaries. I always give them more. I can also understand why people always say that we would like to have more, but there has been no sector in the last period where an average salary increase of 9.5% has taken place. Of course, I also know that you will say: yes, but they have been at zero for years. Yes, but so did others! There have been more in the public sector that have been at zero. Here we can, no: here we can take a significant step, thanks to the coalition agreement, thanks to the supporting parties of the coalition agreement. The four of them have been responsible for this, I would like to say very emphatically. What I have done, Madam President, and it sometimes seems to be a little bit against me, but I have done it with conviction: I have made sure that that money has been put in the right place as soon as possible. Of course I could have cut it into pieces. Something every time. No, there was a big emergency. We let the money go to the right places as soon as possible. To the schools, teachers gave influence on the spending of the money. Remember that big amount for the workload. Meanwhile, €50,000 is available for the average school to make choices. In the last year 3,000 FTE have been added to primary education. In short, structural money was there. This is now for 2020 and 2021. In a new period of government, the people who are there will talk about it. But this really is not small money and I am also proud that we have succeeded in this, also with the support of the parties that have signed or still have.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u111	About those parties and those signatures, we'll never know exactly. I find it complicated to imagine that there is a time for negotiation of an agreement, a weekend for an education strike, without talking about the consequences of such an agreement on the education strike. But I am concerned about the central issue: is it occasional or is it structural? The Minister consistently answers every question about it with the fact that he does a lot. Then everyone in the Chamber says again equestrianly: indeed, something has already happened. But if the end point of that extra spending is that the teacher deficit continues to increase in the coming years... Despite the cabinet measures, the number of teachers we are looking for in the future continues to increase.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u112	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u113	The number of classes to be sent home will increase. Then the conclusion can't be different than: nice that you do it, but it's not enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u114	I have just indicated that the approach to the problem, to the shortage of staff and, in particular, to the shortage of teachers, must be very broad, because there is no single solution. If it were, it would have been a lot simpler. Let's say it was really the case that I'll just call it as you always call it... the closing of that gap between p.o. And if the solution were to be, it would have been able to put the money from the workload into it. If there had not also been a gap in the budget and that money had been available, we could have just closed that gap. Would we have had the situation now that there had been no shortage of teachers? I have just outlined to you: I have had to do it briefly, because I see the President's compelling view of the labour market at the moment. That's not exclusive to education. That is very broad and that does not make it any easier or less easy. It's just a big problem. Those salaries are one part of the approach. That is where we were able to take these steps, but we also very much want to have those other people there. We have great results with that. I dare say that out loud. Look at how the inflow and flow rate has been the first part of our approach over the past few years. In 2018, there was an 11% growth in the number of pabo students. This year, another 7.5% will be added. Then the side-inflow. This year the numerator stands at almost 2,000, of which a whole part is in primary education. We're really scoring, I'd say, when it comes to switching on these parts. Does that help? No, and we can see that. It is a big problem, but can we also be a little pleased with the results we are achieving on that front? Then let's get these people under control, or they'll be gone in no time. Part of the covenant money is also meant to do so. So it's not just structural money. It is also with occasional money for doing good things now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u115	So this is what happens every time. I ask a question about what doesn't happen and I get an exposé on what does happen. I'll say it again: fine that it will. My point remains that we are now seeing that the problem is increasing. At a time when we all see the economy as such an impenetrable circumstance that we can do little about it, perhaps we should call it "the approach to the shortage of teachers'. That thing is called "approach teacher shortage" and I fully agree with the Minister. That's right. That is a good ambition and I wholeheartedly support it. But if we still see that the deficit is increasing, the end point cannot be: the conditions, the difficult labour market and we are already doing so much? That's all I'm asking. Then that can't be the end of the line, can it? Then we have to say that there really has to be something structural, because we simply can't make it this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u116	I notice that it is really difficult to reach each other on this subject. We also had that in general consultation. I am trying to answer with all my heart and conscience, and of course you are doing the same from your point of view. I have just made a comment about the impression that with a great deal of structural money we are going to solve the problem which is now so hard on our labour market and also on education which is also very visible, much more visible than in other sectors of education. I said, if only. Of course, that helps, but I also indicated to Mr O'Brien that I have never heard you react to that, and I have never heard you say that the fact that we have made extra money available, but also that those other parts are switching to get people into education, is very successful. This means that people are very keen to work in primary education. When I first started as a ruler, I talked a lot with the boys........................................................................................................................................................... They're men with families. They have done special work. I even talked to them before I was officially sworn in as a minister. It was very important for me to have that conversation with them, because I had seen, when I was not yet a ruler, what they had accomplished in that education. They then indicated that they had enormous concerns that there would be an outflow of the p.o. If those salaries didn't go up... That was a real concern of them. I've been monitoring and following this section over the past two years. Luckily, there hasn't been a very large outflow. And what do we see now? That through the approach we have had, we have managed to increase those salaries further. One of the former leaders of PO in action also indicated at his farewell interview that he hopes that the next steps will be taken in the new election programmes. I can send you a link to that interview, because I listened to it again recently; I had a memory of it. We have been able to raise salaries through our approach, but we have also made sure that, in politics with the influx, with the side-inflow and with new students, a huge amount of people now move towards primary education. If the thesis had knocked that the salary would be a hindrance and that people would leave, then this would not have happened. This is without prejudice to the fact that you can always look further at what you can do, including about salaries. But sometimes you also have to bet your money widely, even when it comes to the approach you have. That's why we've made these choices now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u117	My question concerns the same point. I hear what the Minister says. Perhaps we should give the minister, the ministry, the government the credit for it, so that this discussion about "we're already doing a lot of things" is simply confirmed. At the same time, we must note that it is not enough, at least for teachers. Then perhaps the Minister can take over. My first question is whether the Minister can make it clear to teachers what these actions are. Could that help? He doesn't have to do that now, but maybe in a writing, or call it a crisis plan. That way the teachers could say: well, indeed, the minister is right, it will be fine. I'm asking because the whole country's on strike. We need to be sure that things can work out. Could the Minister have such a crisis plan...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u118	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u119	We've done that again recently. We did so at the beginning of this cabinet period. We have also made clear through our social media channels what the approach looks like, on which parts of money has been invested and what the results are. And that's what we're going through with. But I think we should also be very real with each other. These must also be my colleagues who are concerned or other areas. You're really doing what you can, but you can never guarantee that you'll solve all this. I also think that this is a problem that will pass for a while. Even when challenged by Mrs Westerveld's question about the historical perspective, we know that there have been times in the past when it was very difficult. And we also know that three or four years later, the labour market suddenly looked different and that the problem of education suddenly came back into a completely different one. I am an example of that myself. Why did I end up in the east of the country from the west? Because I couldn't find a job in my living environment. Those days are over. I could have chosen a few years, so to speak. Moreover, I am very glad that I ended up in the east, with all due respect for the West. But this indicates what can happen suddenly and what consequences that has, also for choices that need to be made.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u120	If I listen carefully to the Minister, he says that the crisis plan is there and we are constantly working on it. However, I predict this Minister that with this attitude the number of strikes will only increase. So what he's saying here won't be enough. I'm just looking with him for an answer that we can give, so those people don't go on strike, they just keep on working. And that's not gonna happen right now. Does the Minister agree with me that this is probably not going to happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u121	We'll see. I have just said that it is the choice of those involved themselves whether or not they want to strike. I really stay away from that; that's not my place. But I'm not doing all this alone. There's a huge group of people around me. Not only at national level, but also in the regions, these people are working on this. With each other, we need to make it clear what our approach is. And we need to make people feel included in that. This is also about the problem that I was talking about at the time of my introduction. People must feel appreciated. And we also need to make them realise that sometimes there are limits to what we can do, including in the financial sense. In short, we will have to keep talking about this constantly. If new opportunities are created, we must of course use them; we have now had such an opportunity for the next two years. If extra money becomes available, we must make sure that we can invest it in the right places with all the parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u122	There are, of course, a number of things that are happening. It is, of course, nice that more people are coming to teacher training and that the side influx is also increasing. At the same time, we know that it is too late and that it is not happening enough. That's what I said in my argument yesterday: the government reacts a number of times, but it's actually very often too late over the years. I would like to ask the Minister the following. We both know it's not enough. We also know with each other that with occasional money you cannot, of course, increase wages structurally, as the employers also point out. Then where is the resistance to indicate that we want this incidental money structurally?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u123	This has to do with our constitutional relations, but also with the time periods in which you can make choices as a cabinet. At a time when we are making structural funds available for salaries and for the workload, this is also reflected in the multiannual budgets after this cabinet period, as I have just indicated. We have that substantial sum of 700 million. We were really at the top of the investment list. Even if it wasn't enough, we were at the top. We have done that and that will of course continue to work. At the moment when you don't have structural money but occasionally money, and indicate that we can do a few very good things with that money in the period when we are still in the cabinet for about a year and a half, assuming that we can make it to the finish line, which are also very important for today's problems, isn't that very pleasant? If there is no structural increase in salaries, that is indeed a problem. I get that, if you want to put it in salaries. On the other hand, last year, in addition to structural money, occasional money was made available. I know that, in addition to the fact that salaries could be increased structurally, there have also been occasional allowances. People who worked full-time even received an extra €750 at the end of the year. I did not hear anyone say: we do not want that money, because it is not structural. It can also be an appreciation for the people, also for what they do. Because we all know that this time is so difficult for them. They get extra work, a colleague falls out, and they have to take over a class. In short, continue with everything that is happening. That's a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u124	I still have a question about that. I am not a financial spokesman on behalf of our group, otherwise I might have understood. Some of the priorities show that structural money can also be added during this period of government. My sincere question is therefore: why can't this happen in education? We see together that it is too little to solve the shortage of teachers. More importantly, we hear it from the field itself. Employers say they can't raise wages. There is also a fear that some of the money will be returned to the school's financial reserve. We don't want any of that. The question is: where is the resistance? Who doesn't want this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u125	I don't think that's the right question. The good question is: from what position... I'm sorry to put it this way, but I'm gonna take a look at it from my own point of view. What was my starting position with this portfolio and with this subject? It wasn't like I didn't get anything. In fact, next to me is my colleague, the minister of OCW, who has higher education and other fields. Priority has been given very consciously to the problem of primary education. Secondary education has even indicated to the public: we understand that. There was a substantial, really substantial, amount structurally available for primary education, with the clear agreement: that is it for this cabinet period, in particular in order to increase salaries. There is now additional, but still occasional money. I'm very happy about that, because we could really use it. But you also need to see at some point your limitations on what can be spent on money in a cabinet period, knowing what there is also about in other areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u126	I would like to thank the Minister for clarifying how the AOb was doing, because that was really unclear. It is good to hear that this has now been clarified. I am glad that the Minister and I share the optimism about the plus points and the positive points we also see in the situation we are now in, but I have one more question. It is about the occasional resources, the 150 million for primary education and the 150 million for secondary education. In my contribution, I indicated that I can only imagine that this would land with the teachers. My question was: how can we ensure that it doesn't end up in the school board's bank account somehow, but that it ends up in the teachers' wallet, so that they get appreciation? The Minister hasn't taken that up yet. I would like to invite the Minister to say something about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u127	Of the 300 million in the package, 150 million go directly through the administrations to those who conclude the collective agreement. There the choices are made for the people who work in education. I would like to stress that this also means that school leaders and support staff can enjoy this; let us also mention them. We have already mentioned school leaders, but not yet the support staff. They too stood aside last year when that big leap was made. I hope they can communicate in that. But that's what they have to decide at the collective bargaining table. In the case of education, it actually goes a bit in the form of the work pressure system towards the schools. This means that there is also ownership of the teachers when it comes to the choices that can be made about the use of money for their problems.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u128	It is very good that the Minister points out that this is also about educational support staff and school leaders. Of course, we have had the function mixers and we have the performance box resources: resources that are somehow not being used as we would like. As far as I am concerned, it would be really crazy if these funds, which we have said should be placed with the staff, were eventually placed in a bank account. That would reduce my confidence in the field of education.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u129	Everyone understands that. The commitment is, of course, to allow it to land in that good place as soon as possible. I can tell you that I have already instructed DUO this week to get the money to the schools as soon as possible. That is still to be done this calendar year. I have to say to the Chamber that what is happening now is a little unusual, because that would mean that it will be paid into the schools' or teachers' accounts this month and made available through the collective agreement, but you have not yet officially adopted your budgets. I hope that you will give room for this in this situation, because the sooner, the better at this time of trouble. Of course, I had to point that in your direction, but I think you are aware of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u130	The Minister just mentioned the word "valor" a number of times. We've heard that word a lot from teachers lately. They say: we lack appreciation. Two years ago, we stood here with the minister's predecessor. At that time, however, the president had to calm people even when the minister's predecessor expressed an understanding of the difference in pay between p.o. and vo. To our surprise, that statement was recently repeated by our Prime Minister. That leads me to the following question to this Minister: he acknowledges that the difference in pay between p.o. And is undesirable and unfair?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u131	That's not just a question you answer yes or no, but I'll try to be brief. I understand very well that there is a desire for these two different forms of education and the people who work there to grow towards each other. I can even imagine that someday one collective agreement might come. They are, of course, different now, as you know. I cannot comment on our cabinet period, but you have noticed that the contribution made by this cabinet represents a huge leap towards equalising the differences in pay. It is up to the next Cabinets to continue in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u132	That's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u133	I strongly disagree with the Minister on this point. The question I just asked isn't complicated at all. It is simply a very fundamental question: does the Minister, like us, like all those teachers, like a lot of administrators and like a very large part of this Chamber, think it is unfair that there is a difference? I mentioned two examples of Tom and Leila yesterday. It's a big difference. Does the Minister find it unfair, like us, that this gap amounts to up to €600 a month in the higher scales?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u134	Then you'll have to look at how those scales are built up. You have three bowls in the p.o. And you also have three in the vo. I sent the figures for the week to the Chamber, and that had happened before. I note that almost three quarters of the teachers in the p.o. is in the lowest scale. That's a choice drivers make. If you're going to compare it to the vo, it's always good to look at questions like "how old is someone?', "When did he start teaching?" And "how did he grow?" And then I notice that the starting salaries are very close together. Mr Bishop asked what it would take to make it all the same. Let me take that question right away. That is quite difficult to calculate, because you don't know exactly how many people are in there, but of course it takes a few tens of millions to smooth it all the way from the beginning. But only in the course of time, as people get older, do you see that these differences are going to increase. This also has to do with the fact that you cannot continue to grow if you stay in scale 10. If you're in scale 11, you can. If you get the opportunity to go to scale 12, then of course you have many more options. Then of course you are also at a much fairer level that is much more comparable to that of your colleagues in the vo than if you only stay in scale 10.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u135	I will give you the floor in a moment, Mrs Van den Hul. The Minister still has a lot of questions to answer. Here's what I want to say to the Minister. We have a list of subjects here. They're also interrupting. The interruptions also concern the subjects on which they are based. I would therefore take that into account in the reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u136	I am, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u137	Okay. So that's not gonna happen again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u138	It's gonna be real quick. Don't worry about it. I understand your concern. Can I say one thing in your direction? I really hope you'll give me some time to explain things. There's so much commotion about this. There are so many questions asked about it. If I have to take one sentence off, I do not do justice to the subject and to the people who might also be listening. It is important that we do this very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u139	I couldn't agree more. You will also be given that space, but it is also really intended to address the questions of the Members of Parliament. General introductions are fine. You have made extensive use of this, but at some point certain questions must also be answered. But I also understand that you need it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u140	I have heard a lot from the Minister, but I have not heard an answer to my very simple question as to whether he agrees with us that this pay gap is unfair. I've heard a minister turn away from that. I have also heard a minister explaining the responsibility for this. I understand very well that teachers, educators and parents are saying, above all, let us not forget: it has to be done now. We can't do it in two years. That lack of teachers is now and is now asking for solutions, including to bridge that pay gap.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u141	So here again the suggestion is raised that if we close the pay gap in order to take over that word, the problem is solved, but that is simply not true. I wish it were that simple. What we are doing is taking great steps. In the end, it is the social parties, the employers and the workers, who have in the past decided in their wisdom to make two collective agreements, with a structure. It is the employers who make the adjustments to these collective agreements and who make them into wage scales. I have always said that I find the wish very legitimate to ensure that in the end there is a single collective agreement and that there are sufficient resources to make p.o. and to reward you equally. For this cabinet period, that alone will not succeed with the money available, even though that is a lot of money. However, we can take a huge step already. In your direction, of course, I indicated that I was committed to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u142	No one really claims that solving that gap, that one thing, is enough to solve the problem. I don't like it when the Minister says that, because that's not what anyone says. The Minister mentioned that he constantly plans and shares with the sector on how the problems are addressed. We were just talking about the crisis plan. That's what the Minister's working on. I wonder if it is possible to help the sector and to meet it by talking about structural money now. Of course, we have a salmon standard, but it's deserted. When it comes to finding solutions to this structural problem with funding, I note that the government itself has chosen to abandon the salmon standard. So there's really room to do that. That brings me back to what Mrs Westerveld said. Where's the hesitation? Perhaps I should ask the question even more simply: is it a political choice not to? That's legitimate. Then we'll be done very quickly, because it's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u143	When budgets are submitted to the Chamber, it is obviously a matter of political decisions by a cabinet. The cabinet says: this is our budget, so these are our proposals. A further 460 million has been added in this situation. Partly that's a bit of prioritisation here is the problem and that's what we're going to bet the money for, but part of it's also new money. That's what you need to decide. This is what we propose.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u144	Then I guess at least I can draw my conclusion. It's possible to find extra money. I'm thinking salmon standard. The cabinet itself has chosen to let go of it. We could do the same. The government could also opt for this in the context of education. It does not, and that is a political choice. That's a clear answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u145	My question builds on that too. The minister told us at the beginning that at the end there is, as it were, a collection van going around to see where money is left. Do I understand that this money is, under the budgetary rules, occasional money, but that we could choose as a policy to make it structural for the next few years? Do I understand the example of the collection van correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u146	The example of collecting money from other ministries that they have not been able to spend and which otherwise goes back to the treasury is the example of collecting, as I called it domestic. That's occasional money. You have also seen in the covenant that this is for 2020 and 2021. For the next two years, we will use that money for the purposes set out in the covenant. As regards what will happen after that period, I have already indicated that you yourself said something about it yesterday, as did Mr Van Meenen and others. But it's not up to the Cabinet to interfere. We really must confine ourselves to our own position in this cabinet period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u147	Your sixth question, Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u148	That's hard, Mr. Chairman. But, of course, this subject is very much a matter for the Minister, who is right in saying that he is asking us a number of questions. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister whether it is true that it was not chosen to make a proposal to the Chamber to make it structural. Is it true that this is really a political choice?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u149	I have been told by the Minister of Finance what amount was available to me. This is also the money I have discussed with the parties on the table with additional resources. How can we best use it to the benefit of the major problem we are facing? These are the choices we made in there. I stand for that, too, because I think these are very good subjects. Apart from that, you can always think of other things that are important and sometimes require structural money.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u150	Mr. Chairman. I still have all my interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u151	Yes, I've missed you for the last hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u152	Yeah, but you're gonna be fine today. I would like to dedicate one to Liesbeth Verheggen, no longer president of the AOb. I know her as a very involved woman from education, who has long been in front of the classroom, a very experienced trade union woman. I said yesterday that I cannot imagine that she, without consulting her administration and its central administration, who had given an impression, said on her own initiative that she was going to sign the covenant and that she was going to withdraw that strike. I understand that the Minister has given the opportunity to discuss matters. I would like to ask him if he would like to go into that further, because we also need to get on with each other. We need to know what's good for each other. I think it's important to understand what happened there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u153	I don't think it's appropriate to talk very extensively about something you discuss with each other in confidence. I think I've been very clear. As a person, you don't make an individual assessment to put a signature. She was there as chairman of the largest educational union, so she represented her organization. There may be moments in a negotiation, that happens politically sometimes, that you want to have a backseat with your constituents before you can agree to anything. That room's gone. Others have taken advantage of this. In the end, there's a moment when you say we're gonna do this, yes or no. You saw that her signature was underneath it, and that's it, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u154	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u155	I can skip a few things because I've already had them. Mr Rog has asked questions about the WW and the super-statutory or subsequent benefits, as we call them in the jargon, on which I have also sent him additional information. We see that there have been many people in the past. We have already noted that we need to do something about this, especially those super-statutory benefits, but that is very difficult for the public authorities, because it is a responsibility of the social partners, when they conclude the collective agreement, to make choices. When we made 270 million available, that was stuck to it. We are now seeing in the figures I will give in December, so they are not yet fully official, but I would like to say something about the fact that in all six sectors of education the use of WW benefits is falling. In primary education this is even quite spectacular. There is a difference with last year, i.e. a decrease of about 30% in people who benefit from WW benefits. Well, there's still a rise in the super-statutory benefits. This has to do with the fact that a number of years ago, when it was a better time, people ended up in it. When the WW period is over, you'll be in that benefit, as you know. That's why the numbers are getting a little up. The effect of collective agreements is likely to lead to a fall in those numbers in the near future; that is, of course, our approach. It is very important that the influx into the WW is falling, and we see that happening. An exception is that we see just before the summer that suddenly a thousand people end up in the WW. That's incomprehensible. It is less than in other summers, but still. These are issues that we really need to talk to the drivers about, because we really need to avoid that. We could use anyone. Finally, I would like to add one more point: these super-statutory benefits include, in particular, 55-plussers, some of whom we know can't really come back. As you know, we have 700 of those who can come back in position. The Replacement Fund will continue to do so, because there are indeed opportunities to get people back into class.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u156	Of course, we are all looking for opportunities to raise salaries in primary education. Some left-wing parties want to increase taxes or make other shifts. I'm looking within the budget. Those super-statutory benefits were once conceived when they seemed like a means of making room for new staff. Now there's another time. We need everyone. My question is whether the Minister intends to talk to the sector to further reduce these arrangements.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u157	I just indicated the position. It is indeed the social partners themselves who make choices. But this is, of course, the subject of conversation. We took a good step in this, also last year in the collective agreement. If there is to be a new collective agreement, I hope that will happen this month, then it will have to be taken into account that there will have to be a normalization, including for public education. Special education and public education are the same, even when it comes to these schemes and their austerity. But I think the message is clear, including among the parties involved. This is where we need to get rid of it. Mr. Chairman. We've been asked about the silent reserves. I just need to get my paper. Mrs Westerveld asked that question and I think Mr Kops asked a question about it. We've been asked how we can get these people back into position. We know that in primary education 31,000 people belong to the silent reserve. By the way, a large part of them, 17,000, have a different job. Between 14,000 and 14,000, there are also a lot of people who are disabled. They can't just go back. In secondary education, we also have such numbers. Of course, we try to interest people wherever possible in going back. We're also trying to make it attractive to them. It is not just possible to say: you get a return guarantee. At this time, with this very tight labour market, it is simply very difficult for employers, even for a government as an employer. However, we believe that the attractiveness of the profession should be given people with a competence to move back. Signing up just like that also gives us some privacy issues. We've discussed this before. Now I have seen with a slanted eye that this seems to be possible in the care. We're talking about that, but we're also talking to the Personal Data Authority right now to really get absolute clarity. In the letter of December, I will mention the outcome. Then we have absolute clarity. Should VWS have seen a hole, we also like to crawl in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u158	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u159	Mr. Chairman. By the way, at national level, we are not doing so much about this, but when I count them in this Chamber, I see six or seven people with authority. I think we can help a school with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u160	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u161	Mr. Chairman. I've said a lot about the rewards. I'm just gonna take a quick look at the full-time bonus. If you want to make it structural, it is not legally possible, because then there will be a ban on working time. This concerns not even national legislation, but also international labour law. I do know that a motion was passed at VWS to investigate it further. That doesn't mean it can be done, because there are really limitations to it. What can be very good and what is happening is that people do get an extra financial rating through bonuses, but I am not talking about structural funds, for example, if they are going to work longer. Or if they work longer, because it would be a bit strange if someone who does three days now and chooses to stand in front of the class five days a week would suddenly be rewarded, while the person who has always had five days would not benefit from it. But that has to be done at school level. We can do that now. This could also be agreed in the collective agreement. Mr. Chairman. Then the appreciation in the vso. I think it's a good thing that teachers in the vso are usually in scale L11. You have seen this in the figures. Then it's 85%. The same applies to special education, so they also receive a higher reward. But the desire to reward, in particular, the teachers who are in the diploma-oriented stream, sounded through the covenant. You have seen that money is being spent on this. It is not enough to do so in the collective agreement as well. But I would like to make it clear that such a collective agreement story is really quite complicated. That can't just be one-two-three. There aren't always separate vso-schools anyway. Sometimes it's a combination. Then there's a department. Those teachers are also widely deployed. There is also a business observation, namely that the diploma requirement for the vso is also just pabo and not first degree or second degree. But with this money, with that 16.5 million, we can take a very nice step to further increase those salaries. That's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u162	Have you had all the questions relating to remuneration and so on?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u163	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u164	Okay. Then Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u165	A question about the vso. It will be largely true for special education that pabo is the occupational requirement. But in practice you see, especially in those schools for special education where, for example, you are trained to have a diploma or a diploma, that you simply cannot do that. You do not learn at the pabo to learn at a havo 5 student physics or English. And that's a good thing, because you have to learn other important things on the pabo. This is what the agreement has chosen for this purpose. I'm really happy about that, by the way, because if there's one group of teachers... Well, you know my opinion: I'd like a few more bowls up. But we must at least start in special education to get those people to the level of the collective agreement of secondary education. It is a relatively small amount for the whole budget. Why, then, was it not chosen, either in the budget or in the subsequent agreement, to go just that bit further? Why not just take out the extra 20 million, so that these teachers can simply participate directly at the level of the teachers in secondary education? And in terms of technical execution, I'm fine with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u166	In the end, we managed to get this amount of money back on a structural basis and to include it in the agreement. Here too, of course, as for other amounts, there are always wishes for more money to be added. You say 20 million extra structuralally, can't that be found? Well, I can tell you that it's been quite an art to get this amount available. But I'm proud of it, because I think it's a very nice addition to the covenant.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u167	Is this what you're talking about, Mr. Kwint?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u168	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u169	Okay, go on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u170	Mr. Chairman. Then organize it differently. I will leave that for a moment, because not many questions have been asked about it either. It's very crucial. There is also a world to be won. With regard to the regional approach and the urban approach, a great deal has happened at that level in the past year. A lot of cooperation has been established. I am truly very pleased with that, because it really has to be done in those cities and in those regions. It is also intended that the cooperation and guidance of side-intromers can take place. Many of you have rightly asked for this. That guidance really needs to be in order. You can do that together. We also see such movements in the country. It happens. But there are also worlds to be won in many regions, when it comes to cooperation and to ensuring that you are each other's feet, even in difficult times. I've already informed the Chamber about the appointments I made with the G5 before. We also discussed this during the general consultation. I can tell you that I was somewhat uncomfortablely surprised that a picture was created in the newspapers as if there was room in the conversations with those municipalities to put parents in the classroom instead of teachers. I say to you in very bad Dutch: no way! Education is a profession. That's what you need people trained to do. Sometimes it doesn't work for trained people. That's why sometimes unauthorized people are deployed. Then it's about people who are studying. They are sometimes brought in in emergency situations, under the responsibility of a competent person. That is a situation that we sometimes have to accept. Such a situation is not intended for the long term either. We have also said: you indicate all kinds of things you would like to do, but that is very unfocused, very general. The situation is simply different, also by city and sometimes even by district. Come up with targeted plans, then the inspection will monitor them adaptively. That means she's not keeping you to the impossible, but we're trying to guard the quality with each other, even at this difficult time. The impression has been created that, as a responsible ruler, I feel that parents should be placed in the classroom. That's out of the question. That's what I'm gonna say here again, because that's what really hit me. Parents are allowed for class, but with authority. If parents do not have the authority, they can sometimes be deployed, even with parenting participation, but not for this important task. Let there be no doubt about that, as I say to Mr Van Meenen, who has asked questions about it. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the answers per group. Mr Kops spoke of political neutrality. We have often had this discussion with those you replace, Mr Beertema. I take with me the answer to Mr Van Raan's questions about teaching methods and what happens in schools. I think it is very important that the school is the first exit if there is criticism. We organized participation in the school. If there are objections to what a teacher does or to the methods chosen, they should be addressed in the school. By the way, I have a little knowledge of teaching methods; they looked good in terms of design and construction. There are also appeals if you don't get out, even to a higher level. When it comes to methods, I say to Mr Van Raan, you can look again in the article on freedom of education. The word "method" is even used for special education. There is also freedom of establishment in schools. There are choices to be made. If parents don't agree, I'd say talk to the schools. Mr. Chairman. Then Islamic education. Mr Kops made a few comments on this. That too is a discussion that we are constantly having with each other. There is freedom of education, but there is also a responsibility, no matter who you are and what your background is. If you don't fulfil that responsibility properly, you're not worth that freedom. Then we act through the instruments made available from the law. Mr Heerema, including through amendments, has called for attention to be paid to sport, to LOOT and to offer some more space as schools would like, not as a general principle for the whole of the Netherlands, but quite specifically. I have also seen your coverage, and I can give these amendments a ruling Chamber. This also applies to your amendment relating to staff policy. That's another thing I'm judging Chamber. It is very nice to have some space next year with regard to the side-intromers who can come back to it. I have, however, indicated that we are more or less guaranteeing that I may not use the word'structural' for this, which is our commitment to requests to honour them. This has been achieved in the last two years, although the budgets were insufficient. Mr Heerema also made comments on the European School. You have seen in the answers that there is progress in this area. The three cities are strongly involved in this. Mrs Westerveld's questions mainly concerned staff shortages.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u171	Before you proceed, Mr. Heerema has an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u172	I had also asked questions about education for highly gifted students. We have adopted a motion on this in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u173	The minister's gonna come up with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u174	I'll do that right now. That's right. I had just overlooked the question about highly gifted students. You can't rule out students. You know what the rule is. If it does, we'll take a look at that. I've told MPs before, give us the numbers. It's not allowed. We have another discussion under an initiative law, which will also cover this issue. The Chamber has already had its first term. Perhaps there will be an initial deadline for the proposers, to which I may be a consultant. Of course, what is missing is a very clear legal title in order to be able to supervise properly, but it simply cannot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u175	Despite this answer, my question remains exactly the same. We've had an AO. We then had a VAO and a statement from the Chamber that we do not want this. The Minister has been firm in answering the factual questions that it should not. In the reply I saw this afternoon, it says: it is not allowed. That's what the Minister says. But it does happen. I gave you the numbers of a number of schools. We can give you more. But I really just want to hear the statement that the moment this happens, a sanction can be imposed. Apparently, school boards and partnerships are watching. And all they see is that the Chamber barks but doesn't bite. And it just can't be, because these children sometimes have to pay hundreds of euros for something that is innate, that they can't do anything about and that really puts them at a disadvantage.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u176	I would very much like to continue this debate if there is a law, because we do indeed lack a legal title to act, including in the supervision, and to be able to impose sanctions if necessary. After all, you need a legal title for that. So at the moment we have to do it with agreements with the sectoral councils that we do not want this. They have their covenants and they also speak with their boards. And that is an unsatisfactory situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u177	This is completely unrelated to that law for me. Because that law is much broader, which is also about choices that children or parents make when something is not innate. And that really is a broadening of the sanctions I am asking for. If the Minister responds to this, I will come back to it in the second term. I have another question about the European School. The Minister also made a comment on this. I'd like to hear a deadline. I want to know when the three municipalities, including Alkmaar, will find out from the Ministry that they can get to work. Because 12 September seems recently, but in the period of time it is almost three months ago. So that really needs to be set in motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u178	We're working on that last one. We are indeed in the process of making sure that a decision will be taken. I do not have an exact date, I do not know if a deadline has been set, but of course we want the final choice of location to take place in 2020. Let's talk about your own parenting contribution. It's really the way I say it here. There is no legal capacity to act in supervision in such a way that you can also impose sanctions. You're gonna need a legal title for that. There isn't one. That is why the debate on the law is relevant. Then there are some other shadowy sides, which you mentioned in your first term, which we will have to discuss further. Mr. Chairman. Mr Rog's amendment on summer schools is a matter for the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u179	What number does the amendment have?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u180	I'll get it for you. That is the amendment to item No. 8. I would also like to say a few words about Amendment No 2. 26, on personnel policy, I'm judging Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u181	That's also Mr. Rog's.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u182	That amendment on summer schools also has a relationship with our approach to staying in and the effects it has. As far as GVO and HVO are concerned, there is still a discussion with at least the centre about whether everything has been properly passed on in relation to what they believe I am entitled to use that word, also on the basis of the agreements. We have finally made a calculation in which the standardized human burden (GPL) has also been passed on. Because it's not a school, we have to do it some other way. We have also allowed them to benefit from the increase in salaries that have been given. So that too has gone towards these people. What remains to be done is this. That is what they are getting from the agreement of 1 November on working conditions in the current collective agreement negotiations. Once they will also receive amounts per pupil. This will be awarded to them in 2019. That's an amount of €173,000. Mr. Chairman. Mr Kwint has asked questions about special education. That is a discussion we have had before. I was under the impression that there were a few things running through each other. When it comes to the scope for specific attention within mainstream schools, there are no legal obstacles to this. We simply have the opportunity to do so. There is also money going from the partnership. There is also an additional budget for the light support that should be given. So that's what they get the money for. On the basis of the media reports of a week or so ago, we have been working very specifically to find out exactly what is going on with those waiting lists. Once the choice was made not to keep that central, because the file was very polluted. People were sometimes double-registered. It did not give a good picture and was a very administrative burden on the schools. But in the meantime, there have been talks in three places in the country. The PO Council is also involved. This problem has also been discussed with special education and special further education. I will report on this further in the December letter, the teacher's letter, because we take that very seriously. Mr Kwint has often asked for the moratorium to be lifted. I've already indicated we're not doing that. It is also something that will require a change of law. In short, it can't just be one-two-three. We will, of course, have the debate as part of the wide-ranging review of the law, and then you will undoubtedly have another moment to come back to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u183	That it can't be one-two-three, I noticed, because I've already asked for it three times. My question is precisely why. We're seeing waiting lists increasing. When visiting special education we hear people say: we see the weight of the population increase because children end up on waiting lists in regular education. When I hear that, I assume the Minister will hear that, too. Only late, because of these waiting lists or because of the choice of the partnership, will they end up in special education or special primary education. Kids have problems with that. Kids aren't as good at that school as they should be. You can't start schools for special primary education right now. Surely it is a relatively small effort to say that we are removing such a moratorium? It is still up to people to see if they want to set up such a school or not, but at least we won't ban it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u184	To remove the moratorium, the law must be amended. So that also requires a bit of an integral discussion, because once the reason for introducing that moratorium was also related to the introduction of appropriate education. Weather Together To school was over. We have also respected that not every child could go to regular education, but that it was intended that there would be more room for them in those schools. That is why special primary education has simply remained in place, but has not been given room to set up new establishments or schools everywhere. If we want that to be different, I think it is very important to discuss it in the integrated legal process. At the time, the choice was made to discuss the evaluation with each other. This is coming very quickly; we are going to talk about this in the spring.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u185	The moratorium on special primary education dates back to the 1990s and perhaps even before. That's 15 years of appropriate education for the implementation of the Law. I don't think we can tie those two things together. It's about the political choice: do you want to make it possible to reopen the schools? Of course, there is consistency with appropriate education, but it has not been the appropriate education law in which this is regulated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u186	It started after Weather Together went to school. That's when the choice was made. Of course, after the follow-up discussions on where we would like the children to go, there was also the great wish that they could go to mainstream education and go further in the legislation that came after that. We do not yet see any reason to lift the moratorium. We are also concerned about the signs that these are recent signals, because they were not there last year in this way about the waiting lists. I have indicated to you that I will report on this very soon. Let us then continue this debate with each other. That's what's in the December letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u187	I do not include comments or questions on amendments in the interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u188	We also replied in writing to Mr Van Meenen's question on experimental space. I think I have stressed the importance of professional training. I also saw that the first movement was made. The conditions must be met, but we will continue to monitor how they are implemented in the coming weeks. We have some confidence that people there too, as in the p.o. will be able to take a next step.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u189	That is good to hear, because professional formation is very important, more important than ever perhaps. We've seen that again in the last few days. The Minister mentioned it in his introduction. Does this also mean, I would ask for the listeners at home and those who do not see the written answer, that the Minister is also prepared to contribute to this training, as he has done in primary education?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u190	There is also some room for that, because there was already money available. It is a small amount, but one simply has to meet the conditions. Let's start by showing it, because it's hard enough. Mr. Chairman. I forgot Mr Kwint's amendment to No. 16. It will not surprise him, I think, that I am betraying this amendment, given the choices made by the cabinet. Mrs Van den Hul has asked questions about equality of opportunity. We have already given her a written reply on the subject of SER education. We hope it will be there in the spring. As far as private education is concerned, I think it is good to draw her's attention to the fact that the figures we gave to the Chamber last October. At the beginning of the week there was a lot of fuss about the growth of private education. In particular, the NOS mentioned this, but they were not new figures. We have also had a general discussion on it. In the end, some 6,000 pupils are involved in basic education in private education. Of those 6,000, 700 come from primary school. There's a slight growth, but it's not like it's suddenly really growing. We'll keep an eye on that, of course. The total number of pupils is 0.25%. It is something to keep an eye on, but it is not the case that suddenly very disturbing things are happening in relation to the situation that has just been there in recent years. Then there are Mrs van den Hul's amendments. The amendment in part No. 20, I don't recommend. The same goes for the amendment on item No. 6, which I missed the cover of. There was no cover in it, and it was a very large amount, EUR 560 million structuralally. I'm missing cover. I do not know if that is a conscious choice, but it is then quite difficult to move along with it, as far as possible. Mr Van Raan asked questions about the teaching material and about the covenant. I have sent you the latest evaluation with the prospect that we will soon give a policy response to it. Of course, through the channels available, we will pay attention to the fact that these are the agreements, so that people know and also know that they have to work with them. That's what we're gonna do. You also asked a question, Mr Van Raan, about a magazine and whether we want to ban it. I hope I don't have to take that very seriously, even if it was the question. You understand, of course, that we're not going to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u191	The Minister is talking about covering our amendment to finally bridge the pay gap. I still don't understand why the Minister didn't arrange that on Princess Day, because that's when you could do that. But we do have some suggestions for cover. You can do this, for example, by not reducing the tax on profits for multinationals or by not lowering the top rate for the highest incomes. These are a few suggestions that are obvious in our view, but we are very happy to take part in other suggestions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u192	I have, of course, seen the counter-budget, in which quite a large number of sectors are mentioned. It was pretty unfocused, but in the CPB transfer, I've seen that out of that 2 billion is 1.2 billion for care. This means that there is still a residual amount, but that money also had to go to the police and also to the social lawyer and also to education. We were not entirely clear on exactly how that was done, but apart from that we remain in favour of the proposals we have made. It is ultimately up to the Chamber to decide. Madam President. Then...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u193	Before you proceed, there is a question from Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u194	I'd be happy to wait for the Minister to finish with Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u195	I think I've had Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u196	Well, then Mr Van Raan can ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u197	But it's still there, and I suspect there's still a question left.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u198	Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Mr President, I would like to ask three or four remaining questions. I just want to straighten something out first. We did not ask the Minister to ban a magazine. I may not have made it quite clear, but we have asked the Minister to take it offline because it contains incorrect information. It even contains disgusting information, but that could be a personal qualification. That's the request, but I understand he's not going to. Then the question might be more relevant as to whether the Minister is prepared to at least point out to the schools that this particular online magazine really contains errors. That is the first question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u199	Mr. Chairman. I literally wrote down yesterday that you asked if that magazine couldn't be banned, but let's just say that for what it is. I don't think it's my responsibility from my position to send out all kinds of warnings about magazines. It is your right to raise it. I think people are just listening in too, so I'm sure that message will come through. In this way, I think you have made up for your point. I even saw on social media that the magazine was just being brought to people's attention because you mentioned it here. You should also be careful that it is not counterproductive, but well: it has been mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u200	No, the Minister doesn't have to be afraid of that. The more that comes to mind, the better.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u201	Then it's gonna work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u202	And then it works, that's fine, too. The other question we had asked was whether the Minister saw the possibility of transposing the content of that covenant into legislation, in order to give it a little bit more teeth.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u203	I am going to respond to the evaluation and propose that this reaction be used to debate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u204	Then I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u205	I'm almost done, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u206	Maybe you are going to go into the amendment to item No. 18 from Mrs Westerveld?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u207	Yeah, I'd advise against that. We don't see room for that. Then Mr Bishop asked a number of questions, including about reserves. You have received a letter on this and I have indicated in the written reply that we will discuss it further. The investigation must, of course, be conducted in an orderly manner. It also seems important to me that people who have had to deal with this and who do not experience it so should address those who carry out the research. Around the Education Council and making proposals, you received very clear answers from us in the written reply. Mr. Chairman. Then I answered the questions. I have had all the amendments, so I am out of my league.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u208	I have another question about an answer given in writing by the Minister on the link between education and youth care. I also said yesterday that as a spokesperson for youth care, I am very much aware of how these sectors are interrelated and how problems from home sometimes end up in class. In short, we can see that things are not going well in this sector. Now the Minister describes that a coalition is in the process of identifying these bottlenecks. But of course that coalition has no structural resources to see where those bottlenecks are and how we can solve them. I would therefore ask the Minister to come back to that now or at a later date, I understand that it may not be possible to go into more detail immediately. How can we better support education in dealing with children who are not doing well in education?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u209	Mr. Chairman. We have sent a letter to the House recently on education and care, and when I say 'we', I am referring to Mr De Jong and myself. I assume that the Chamber will also want a debate on this. In fact, I understand that perhaps this calendar year is going to happen. That seems to me to be the appropriate time to discuss this subject further. Well, then you'll have us both there. It'll talk a little easier. Then we can assume that from our own responsibilities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u210	Compliments on the way in which the written reply was made. A few times the answer remains too much on the surface, for example when it comes to people who claim the right to exemption from compulsory education. Then it is said: parents are not supposed to be put under pressure. But the problem is that we get regular signals that parents who make the choice for home education are being put under pressure. The question I asked in my contribution was whether the Minister is willing to take active action in it and also to point out to the municipalities and Ingrado: this is not the intention, you stick to the law. Of course, there is a law in the making that will hopefully make it all a lot clearer, but the law currently in force is to be followed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u211	Mr. Chairman. If I can get the numbers from Mr Bishop, as I just said, I will take them with me in my consultation with Ingrado. I'll tell him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u212	We will examine, in consultation with those concerned, whether this is possible or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u213	Of course. We know the limitations the law has, but it's important that you know exactly. It's probably cities, too. There is also a responsibility of the government there. If you have representatives there, there's something you can do. We must not allow this to go unpunished, so that is why we are making this commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u214	Then Mr. Rudmer Heerema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u215	I would like to come back to something from some time ago in the debate. I've had the Minister's answer settled. I think we should talk a little bit and talk about the same thing. The Minister refers to the initiative law of Mr Kwint and Mrs Westerveld on the voluntary own contribution. I think the Minister is wrong, because it is not a choice for which you can ask for a voluntary contribution. You have to see it in the context of appropriate education, making the comparison with children with autism, dyslexia or physical disabilities. No contributions are requested for this, and this is done in the case of high-skills. When we see it in the light of appropriate education, because that's where it belongs, aren't there just funding sanctions possible? We do this in all kinds of fields of education, so why shouldn't we? I do not understand that and I would like us to let go of the link to the initiative law, because it really is in a different perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u216	I have indicated that education is freely accessible. This means, indeed, that you must have an offer for all pupils that is accessible to all pupils, even if specific additional things are needed that relate to the child. In the situation you're sketching, that's the child's gift. Schools have the space to ask for their own contribution. Moreover, the co-determination council must agree to this, including its level. What you want now is for us to act at the time when our own contributions are requested. But it's okay. The participation council at that school probably agreed to it. If children are excluded, I hate it. You know my point of view. I really hate it when that happens. That is also the reason why I myself indicated that I would like to go further in this respect first by means of agreements with the Councils. So that was not entirely possible, although it is better in a lot of situations. What we're missing is a legal ground. The inspection needs it in order to be able to act when it is persistent in doing something that should not be done. That is why I made that link to that law, not because it is an initiative law. So we're missing something in our instruments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u217	Finally, Mr. Lordema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u218	I really disagree with the Minister here, because it concerns the provision of appropriate education. It is not a question of asking for a voluntary contribution. It is about the appropriate education, which is not provided to highly gifted people and which is then asked for its own contribution. That can't be in my eyes, so we really need to take a step further than we are doing now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u219	I fully agree with Mr Heerema that it is not possible, that it is not allowed and that it is very bad that it still occurs. So we need to look for ways of combating that. However, I have indicated my legal limitations in monitoring them, and that is a problem. I can't make it prettier.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u220	Then Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u221	There is now at least hope that Mr Heerema has an additional argument for voting in favour of such a good initiative law. I waited until the end, because I thought it might come back to answering someone else's questions because several people had asked for them. Yesterday, in my term, I specifically asked the Minister to respond to a publication in NRC in which it was said that there was actually a kind of political poker game during the negotiations this summer, in which the various coalition parties looked into each other's eyes and thought that someone else would ask for education and that there was therefore no structural money added. I have not yet heard a reply from the Minister and I was curious to hear that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u222	This question has already been raised by Mr Kwint in general consultation, and I have already addressed it. To give the same answer every time, even if we have a lot of other questions, seems a bit exaggerated to me, but it is asked very specifically. I have indicated that there are fixed times when choices are made. Then a cabinet comes up with its proposals and we defend them. I am glad that additional money has become available in addition to the APB and we have talked today about how we want to spend that money.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u223	Finally, Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u224	That's not an answer to my question. And indeed, I have asked this question before. And because I didn't get an answer then either, I thought, "I'm gonna ask you again." The question is very specific whether there has been talk this summer about the possibility of adding additional structural money to the education budget or whether the story in NRC is true that the four parties were watching each other from: ask it, because then perhaps I can ask something else. Has there been talk of extra structural money in the budget or has it not been on the table at all?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u225	Mr. Chairman. I have had discussions with my colleagues in the cabinet on budgets. You know those reports from the Council of Ministers didn't go to you then. I don't think they'll be public for another 20 years. We finally set the budgets. They have been presented to the Chamber and I will answer for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u226	I'm looking around. Have all the questions asked in the first period been answered? I see that's the case. Then I would like to thank both ministers for their response in the first term. I shall suspend the sitting until 8.30 p.m. After the suspension, we'll continue with the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u227	We have arrived at the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Kops on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u228	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Many thanks also to the rulers for the answer. I have a number of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that around 94,000 teachers in basic education have an appointment of 0.8 fte or less;]] [[Whereas the shortage of teachers will continue to increase in the coming years;]] [[calls on the government to actively move parttimers in primary and secondary education to teach more hours,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kops and Mr Beertema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u229	A very informative question. Yesterday we talked about the reasons why teachers work part-time, also in relation to workload. Just for my appreciation of the motion: when it comes to actively promoting full-time work, does this include reducing the workload?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u230	Yeah, absolutely. Of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u231	Okay, great.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u232	I have the same question in that sphere, because a full-time job in secondary education, for example, often means a working week of 55 hours. 'Cause it's gonna be okay. Is the motion that we continue to hunt teachers about the blade of what is still reasonable?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u233	No, I'm not. This motion calls for people to move to teach more hours. That's what the motion says. No more than that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the shortage of teachers in basic education will increase considerably in the coming years;]] [[noting that around 94,000 teachers in basic education have an appointment of 0.8 fte or less;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the cost of a full-time bonus of 5% per quarter and how this could be implemented,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is the primary task of education to transfer knowledge, develop talents, elevate and train pupils and students to become critical citizens who make independent and independent assessments;]] [[considers that the expression of any political preference is contrary to the neutrality of teachership;]] [[calls on the government to add political neutrality as a component of teacher training,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that intelligence services warn against theft of research results in Dutch knowledge institutions by China and Iran;]] [[Whereas, according to the General Intelligence and Security Service, theft of research findings takes place within legal partnerships of academic knowledge institutions;]] [[noting that universities do not have the knowledge and capacity to screen foreign students and scientists from countries at risk;]] [[calls on the Government to have visa applications from Chinese and Iranian students in sensitive technologies assessed by STUDY,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Islam is a totalitarian ideology;]] [[Whereas pupils from schools should not be exposed to visits to ideological institutions which promote standards and values incompatible with our democratic rule of law;]] [[noting that these visits encounter considerable resistance from parents throughout the country;]] [[calls on the government to end school visits to mosques,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kops and Mr Beertema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-33]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kops and Mr Beertema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-34]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kops, Mr Beertema and Mr De Roon. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-35]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kops, Mr Beertema and Mr De Graaf. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-36]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u234	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u235	Thank you, Mr. Kops. I now give the floor to Mr Rudmer Heerema on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u236	Mr President, thank you. I would like to thank the Ministers for their first reply. Good thing we had the debate on the 2020 budget. I have a number of motions with which I would like to give course and on which I hope to get 'judge chamber'. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that more than half of teachers work part-time in primary education and a further 15% work less than 20 hours a week;]] [[also noting that the teacher shortage can be fully resolved if more parttime workers start to work less parttime;]] [[Whereas there are financial thresholds to attract teachers to work more;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine how to make it pay for parttimers in primary and secondary education to work more hours and identify possible financial obstacles;]] [[calls on the Government to include in the investigation the position of pensioners who wish to continue working longer,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Rudmer Heerema and Mr Rog. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-37]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u237	I was curious to see what financial obstacles there would be. I can imagine that there are transition points, for example in relation to childcare allowances and so on, which means that the advantage is rather limited if you go to work more. But then Mr Heerema cannot propose to solve this problem only for education. We can't make an exception to our tax rules for teachers, can we? I do know an exception: that would be the salary. You're gonna get a really weird guy, right? Or am I missing something?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u238	We understand that from people who want to work longer in themselves. Yesterday someone at the Square spoke to me on that. He said: "I want to work longer, but that helps so little in my financial situation. Tax is levied, so I end up with little left of what my salary would be. So I'm not going to work." That's one part of the operative part. The second part concerns the following. Indeed, it is the childcare allowance, but I can imagine that there may be other obstacles. I want that mapped out. It's a research motion. I honestly don't know what other things might be going on. If it's too restrictive and we can't arrange something for education alone, then that's just a shame. But I would very much like that if those barriers are there, we can take that road.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u239	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u240	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are generally tough age limits in basic education both in primary education and in the transition to secondary education;]] [[noting that the educational system can become more effective and challenging for the learner if more account is taken of the best time of influx and transit for the child;]] [[Considers that it is valuable to know what a foundational education system might look like as a departure from the current tough transition moments, both outside the current framework of school building and traditional classes;]] [[calls on the Government to launch a pilot in which a number of school authorities with both primary and secondary education within their administration are given the freedom to deal as flexibly as possible with the influx into primary education and the flow into secondary education, taking into account the individual level and speed of the pupil,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Rudmer Heerema and Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u241	Next move. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that there are around 3,000 indicated top sports talent students who, for various reasons, are unable or unwilling to avail themselves of the facilities that a top sports talent school can offer under the LOOT policy rule;]] [[Whereas it should not matter where you live or what school advice you have in order to do the best possible combination of education and top sports;]] [[believes that any indicated top sports talent should have the same opportunity to get the best out of itself;]] [[Calls on the Government to open up the facilities under the LOOT policy rule to those regular schools where individual indicated top sports talents, together with the relevant willing school under the supervision of the LOOT Foundation, can conclude a contract, allowing both school and top sports talent to work together to maximise support in the combination of education and top sport;]] [[invites the Government to ask the LOOT Foundation to act as a centre of expertise for those schools with which individual indicated top sports talents conclude a contract,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Rudmer Heerema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u242	Two more motions, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that talented athletes in primary or secondary education in a family with an income on or below the social minimum have difficulty in combining education and top sports due to financial constraints at home;]] [[Considers that any indicated top sports talent, including from families with poverty, should have the same opportunity to get the best out of themselves;]] [[calls on the Government to establish a financial provision through NOC*NSF, with appropriate partners. This provision is intended to support indicated talented athletes with a limited financial home situation due to an income on or below the social minimum, with a contribution in e.g. travel expenses, contributions or materials,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Rudmer Heerema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u243	Mr. Chairman. My last motion is about gifted people. I have already had an interrupting debate with the Minister twice on the issue of talent. That is very close to my heart. I don't think we're that far apart at all. I would therefore like to table the next motion to see if we can reach agreement. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that a large number of schools and partnerships for highly gifted children still require an additional contribution of often many hundreds of euros per month to parents;]] [[noting that children with, for example, dyslexia, autism or physical disabilities do not have to pay any additional contribution;]] [[having regard to the fact that gift is not a choice, but a congenital one;]] [[Whereas partnerships should be aimed at all children with a need for support and therefore also at children with high abilities;]] [[calls on the Government to impose appropriate financial or other sanctions on school boards and partnerships that require their own contributions because children are highly gifted;]] [[calls again on the Government to inform all school boards and partnerships explicitly that it is prohibited to ask for its own contributions to the appropriate education of highly gifted children,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Rudmer Heerema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u244	Thank you. I think my colleague Wiersma will be happy when he hears that he will have an extra one minute of 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u245	Mr Wiersma loves that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u246	He needs it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u247	Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u248	Yes, you're looking forward to it, Mr. Chairman. Mr Heerema and I had an exchange of views yesterday - let me put it this way - on whether it would be wise to make a decision on the structuralisation of the funds from the covenant in the long term. On 3 November, we, also Mr Heerema, received a letter from the PO Council, the VO Council, CNV Education, the Federation of Educational Trade Unions and the General Association of School Leaders. Those are all the organizations that signed the covenant, except the Aob. They ask us to vote here in a motion to make an effort to do so, and then to add the consequence that these resources can also be used in a structural manner from now on. My question to Mr Heerema is: why would he not want to do that? Why isn't he in?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u249	I think we have been very clear about this in the first period. I understand that Mr Van Meenen simply wants to try again to make it to Nieuwsuur. We can try. He's watching his clock. It's 10:00, so we've got about 45 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u250	I could tell you to tell the honest story.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u251	That could be for example. I find it really unwise to make statements in a motion about resources in a subsequent cabinet period and then to say in this Chamber that schools should interpret it as if it were already structural. I think that's unwise, and I think it's false. You just shouldn't, for the simple reason that we might be in a whole different situation later and you can't keep that promise. In addition, I assume that any cover within the budget will have to be found. Are you going to take half a billion from culture, or half a billion from the media? If you want to look outside that budget, are you going to take away half a billion dollars from care or from Social Affairs? Are you taking 10% of the defense budget, the security of our country?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u252	Yes...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u253	Yes, chairman, I'm being challenged by Mr. Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u254	Yeah, I hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u255	But this is what this is about. I therefore think it would be unwise to table such a motion on a subsequent cabinet period, when there is no cover and Mr Van Meenen makes very generous choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u256	What I think is not so relevant is whether or not governance is going to make structural use of these resources. The relevant thing is what those boards themselves say. They say that they only need one thing to be able to do so, namely that commitment. I can do that quietly, because I know that next time my party will want to use a lot of resources, structuralally. The debate on where these resources should come from will be resumed by then. But the question is whether you want to make an effort. That's what we'll do with that motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u257	Mr Heerema replied yesterday and today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u258	I think so too, Mr. Chairman. It is interesting that the Democrats '66 do not even present such a decision to their supporters, who will also be able to decide on an election programme, but that they simply say: we are doing this as a parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u259	Thank you, Mr. Lordema. Mr. Wiersma, you have four minutes left. Mr. Wiersma on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u260	Something more, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u261	Plus two minutes. So you have six minutes. We're gonna sit all over it. Mr. Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u262	Madam President, thank you very much. First of all, thanks to the rulers and, above all, to all those behind the rulers, both visible and, above all, invisible. I've seen images where that became visible. I was deeply, deeply impressed by that. So also thanks to them. Mr. Chairman. I have something for everyone: five motions. The first one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that student monitors show limited satisfaction with the connection between study and the labour market;]] [[Whereas greater flexibility in the supply of training is a priority of the Cabinet and can help students to better fulfil their learning needs;]] [[Whereas both distance learning and learning combined with a contract of employment can meet the needs of students;]] [[invites the Government to further explore, in facilitating flexibilisation throughout higher education, in cooperation with both social partners and the broad field of education, how to offer scope for both a practical pathway including contract of employment (inspired on blb) and a distance route, which offers students from young to old more options for fulfilling their learning needs, and to inform the Chamber of the upcoming strategic agenda on concrete opportunities and actions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Wiersma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-42]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u263	Mr. Chairman. My next motion is about entrepreneurship. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas valorisation is the third core task of universities in addition to education and research;]] [[Whereas more and more students choose to start their own business as a career path;]] [[noting that universities deal differently with the application and transfer of intellectual property to students who have made an invention during their studies with which they wish to start a business;]] [[Whereas greater clarity on whose intellectual property is in what situation is desirable;]] [[Whereas universities have issued an ambitious Valorisation agenda, which includes a line of action on intellectual property and contracts;]] [[calls on the government to ask the VSNU to draw up, in the implementation of its valorisation agenda with relevant parties, a clear directive for students wishing to start a business with intellectual property of their or university, which should be based on "maximum success rate of the business to be started";]] [[calls on the Government also to report on how the resources for knowledge utilisation entrepreneurship are deployed by the NWA's approved consortia,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wiersma and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-43]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u264	Mr. Chairman. Then I have another motion, which is about flex study. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas flex study by means of a system of pay per credit, conduct a management year, undertake or carry out any other extracurricular activity encourages and facilitates better;]] [[Whereas flex students who spend longer on their studies due to chronic illness or other force majeure can provide a financial advantage because they pay per degree of study;]] [[noting that student organisations would like to see more opportunities to pay per credit;]] [[noting that at present no new institutions can be admitted to the pilot and only a very limited number of institutions are involved;]] [[calls on the Government to allow an additional moment to allow more institutions to enter the pilot project and to urge institutions to take advantage of this opportunity,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wiersma and Mr Van den Hul. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-44]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u265	Then I have a motion on the profiling fund. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the performance of extracurricular activities, such as entrepreneurship, a management year or top sport should be encouraged at all times;]] [[noting that there are students who, due to a disability, illness or otherwise, require additional support for their studies;]] [[whereas institutions set up a profiling fund for both extracurricular activities and force majeure situations, but there is a great diversity in both their fame and their decentralisation;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with student organisations and institutions, to adopt a more detailed approach to the profiling fund and to include how awareness is increased, how additional dissuasive requirements are avoided, how adequacy is ensured on a decentralised basis and whether competition between categories of force majeure and non-force majeure is identified and to inform the Court of this approach by the summer of 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Wiersma, Mr Van der Molen, Mr Bruins, Mr Paternotte, Mr Westerveld and Mr Van den Hul.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u266	Mr. Chairman. Then I have another motion on talent and talent strategy. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the ability of the Netherlands to earn is dependent on attracting the best talents in the world;]] [[Whereas the number of foreign students is increasing, including in the case of courses and studies in which there is limited demand on the Dutch labour market;]] [[Considering the increasing international competition in higher education and research;]] [[Whereas Dutch higher education needs more instruments to regulate the influx of foreign students;]] [[Calls on the Minister of Education, in cooperation with the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Affairs, to formulate policies focusing, in particular, on a desired influx of foreign students and researchers, including guidance tools for influxes, on the basis of macro-efficiency and our future earnability;]] [[calls on the Minister of Education, together with the Secretary of State for Justice and Security, to present an offensive and competitive international talent strategy for Dutch higher education, which also addresses the improvement of procedures, chances and concrete economic prospects,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wiersma and Mr Van der Molen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-46]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u267	Mr. Chairman. That leaves me with the point made by Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u268	You have one minute and 30 seconds left.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u269	Then I'm gonna wait for him to interrupt me and then I'm gonna say something else first. Mr. Chairman. I saw tonight that two Dutch incubators are in the top ten of global organisations that help students fill in their entrepreneurship: YES!Delft and UtrechtInc. That is incredibly handsome, and that indicates that we have great initiatives to help students. That deserves only encouragement, so from this point on, congratulations to those organizations. I suppose I can do that on behalf of the entire Chamber, a nice compliment to them. I just expect the minister to send them a flower or something. That would be worth it, Mr. Chairman. Finally. Maybe I'll get another interruption from Mr Kwint. The function mix in the MBO has been requested. I have looked it up and I understand that in 2008 agreements were made with OCW and the trade unions and the MBO Council on the career perspective, that there is no such thing as a job mix, but that agreements were made at that time. The control, including the formation, lies with the works council and the school board, i.e. with the parties at the table. We, as politicians, have first and foremost to exercise restraint in this regard. That is how we look at it, but perhaps Mr Kwint has some new suggestions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u270	You have seven seconds left.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u271	I was already done, so you can save those seven seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u272	That was all part of the Learning Power Action Plan. Function mix is what it's been called a little homely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u273	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u274	We had to deal with this in the first instance, but, as you said yourself, these agreements are from 2008, so we have been fairly cautious for 11 years. New calculations show that time and time again it is not possible to get teachers to that higher salary scale.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u275	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u276	In the meantime, after 11 years, does Mr Wiersma agree with me that the moment of first restraint is over?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u277	A brief response, Mr Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u278	I would say that what we are exchanging here should at least be a warm encouragement to ask the parties at the table, the school boards, the works councils, the trade unions, who have made agreements, to respond seriously. Perhaps it will help to tell the Minister so that the Minister can let us know what they think about it and how they discussed it. That's fine with me to get along.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u279	Thank you, Mr. Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u280	I've got seven seconds left, Mr. Chairman! And then I want to thank you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u281	Thank you. That's nice, too. I call Mrs Westerveld on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u282	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We had a debate yesterday on an exciting day. Teachers were on a massive strike and there was a lot of unrest in the country. I'll get back to you in a minute. Yesterday in the debate, of course, we talked a great deal about basic education, primary education and secondary education. But we have also consciously chosen to devote a large part of our debate to the MBO, because we are proud of our professionals who study and work in the MBO. We welcome a number of commitments made by the Minister in this regard. I would like to mention a commitment to my colleague Mr Van den Berge on the diversity coach. We are convinced that such a coach can help in the fight against internship discrimination. We also welcome the Minister's commitment to supporting youth organisations. We fully agree with her when she says that it would be good if we could also involve young people from practical education in doing administrative work. I would like to ask her one more question. I would ask her to agree to this with youth organisations themselves. Mr. Chairman. We are in favour of more structural investment in education. I have tabled an amendment to that effect with Mrs van den Hul, among other things. In that we say: make 423 million structurally free, because employers also indicate that they cannot carry on a structural increase with occasional money. At the same time, we believe that it would be a good idea for us here in the Chamber to make a ruling on the structural making of money. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it is essential for the future of our children to have sufficient teachers;]] [[noting that the size of the teacher shortage is worrying;]] [[having noted that the Cabinet is making additional funds available in the short term;]] [[whereas this is a step in the right direction, but new structural investments are needed for the coming years because the shortage of teachers is a structural problem;]] [[calls for further steps to close the pay gap between primary and secondary education in the next government period and to provide sufficient additional resources to combat the workload in basic education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Westerveld, Mr Van Meenen and Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-47]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u283	Mr. Chairman. I also have a motion on higher education.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u284	About the previous motion, Mr. Lordema?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u285	I think the motion went over the next period. As I said during the debate with Mr Van Meenen during the interruption, money must be found somewhere for everything you promise for a further period, even if it is an effort. Where does GroenLinks then make choices, so that extra money can be made available for education? Where would that come from? "The budget" is of course a big one, but you have to make choices somewhere. How do you do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u286	What the motion asks is for different political parties to speak out, to make money that is now occasional, structural. For example, in the previous period we also made very different choices than the VVD. In the previous period, GroenLinks said it wants an extra 3.5 billion for education. At the VVD, that was $100 million. There's quite a difference. In this motion, we ask political parties to speak out and say that this money is not a one-off and that we should use it in a structural manner. Hopefully, on this basis, employers will have sufficient confidence to take on, for example, people now or to continue a wage increase.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u287	Finally, Mr Heerema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u288	Yes, Chairman, finally. I think you agree that this is not even the beginning of an answer. My question was very simple. Nor am I concerned with what is in that motion; I know that. Mrs Westerveld has already read it and she has also sent it to me. So I know what's in there. Where does GroenLinks make choices? That's the question. Because it's so easy to promise free money for another period, even if it's an effort obligation. Yes, I know you wanted to invest more than the VVD in education. That's all true, but where do you make choices? Where doesn't money go anymore? That is the question before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u289	In our entire election program we make different choices than the VVD. We'll have our election program passed on, just like the VVD. Isn't that what makes the choices very clear? We did that last time. We always do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u290	Mrs Westerveld does give the impression that she wants to hang up the garlands, but does not yet know how to pay them. I don't get it. Look, at least we now know from the counter-budget of the left-wing parties that teachers are going to pay €265 a year more taxes, including to pay structural additional investments. We don't know how much next year's gonna be. I just find that very complicated. The last time such a promise was made, namely by the PvdA, EUR 600 million structurally, it then became zero. What kind of signal do you give to the field?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u291	It is the same question as Mr Heerema's.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u292	I do not follow Mr Rog's math example. What we do, of course, do in the whole of the tax system, for example in the previous period, is make very different choices, which we then, and I said just now, just let pass on, like most of the other parties here. So that's not crazy at all. We make very different choices, for example by proposing a different tax system than... Moreover, I do not know the CDA's electoral programme by heart, but I am sure that we will make other choices. For example, we deal differently with large companies. For example, we say that people who pollute a lot must pay more. In that you can see that we are on the main lines...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u293	You just said you'd make other choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u294	The chairman finishes, but he does: make other choices. But that is true in all respects. We also make other choices in the area of care.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u295	Mr President, I would like to ask you to forgive me if I have paid some attention to this during my studies. The VVD has long been in favour of us going to 2% of GDP on defence expenditure, or NATO standard.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u296	To whom is this question addressed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u297	That's where we need to go. That's gonna be in the election program. Do you know how exactly the VVD is going to cover that and where that money is going to come from?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u298	No, Mr. Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u299	Well, no more than I know the CDA's election program...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u300	I had such a hunch, because Mr Van Meenen is under that motion. I thought he was from the same group. Anyway, proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u301	If we say here that we make that choice for education, you can be sure that we do. That is what I say to Mr Rog and Mr Heerema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u302	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u303	I wanted to move on to a motion on higher education. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the coming years tens of millions are being redistributed from the alpha, gamma and medical faculties to science and technology;]] [[Whereas the workload at these faculties is still high, which means that the scientific staff is hardly entitled to carry out research;]] [[believes that alpha, gamma and medical sciences make an unprecedented contribution to Dutch society;]] [[calls on the government to explicitly include these areas of science in the exploration of the announced investment fund,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the increase in study rates was stranded in the First Chamber due to lack of political support;]] [[noting that more than 100,000 people have signed a petition against the increase in student interest rates;]] [[having noted that the EUR 226 million that this measure was intended to deliver from 2026 onwards has been included in the budget as a future education saving;]] [[Whereas the proceeds of the increase in study rates were not intended for education but for general funds;]] [[expresses the need not to allow this future austerity to be at the expense of the education budget in the next period of government,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Westerveld and Mr Paternotte. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-48]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Westerveld and Mr Van den Berge. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-49]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u304	And the final motion is about the silent reserve. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are at least 83 000 people with educational qualifications who do not work in education;]] [[Whereas two thirds of this "silent reserve" indicated that they are considering returning;]] [[Whereas part of this would be too big a step to abandon their current job if the transition were to be disappointing;]] [[noting that there is an acute shortage of teachers in education;]] [[Calls on the Government to consider whether it can agree with social partners on a return guarantee for officials with a competence to work in education;]] [[calls on the Government to engage with employers in business with the aim of guaranteeing the return of workers with a competence to work in education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Westerveld. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-50]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u305	Mr. Chairman. I would, of course, like to thank the rulers for the reply and the debate we have had. I'm gonna start reading my motions. I'll see how much time I have left for that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there is an increasing shortage of teachers;]] [[noting that in 2018 there was nevertheless in the sector p.o. more than 4,200 teachers and nearly 1,300 teachers in the sector receive a super-statutory unemployment benefit;]] [[further noted that, on top of the regular unemployment benefit, the social partners from the education benefit have agreed on a large amount of over-statutory benefits in the case of unemployment, with a total value of 134 million euros in the p.o. in 2018. and EUR 45 million in vo;]] [[Whereas additional incidental resources for education have now become available and it is important that this money should reach the teacher in the classroom as much as possible;]] [[calls on the Government to make concrete agreements with the social partners on the significant reduction of the excess unemployment benefits and to make every effort to get unemployed teachers back to work in the classroom,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the experienced workload of many teachers in the Netherlands is high;]] [[noting that the number of hours taught by students and the number of hours taught by teachers in the p.o. and are substantially higher in the Netherlands compared to the OECD average;]] [[also noted that a relatively high proportion of these teachers work part-time, a relatively large number of teachers leave the field within five years and a relatively high percentage of teachers face burn-out;]] [[Notes that the Second Chamber requests the Education Council to carry out research into the teaching time of pupils and teachers in the foundational education, and that it would like to be informed of the results of this research before the summer of 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is a teacher shortage in primary education that is continuing to develop in the coming years and that it is therefore necessary to increase the influx into the pabo in the coming years;]] [[noting that for prospective pabo students there is no profile on the HAVO with which they have been able to take final exams in the fields of geography, history and nature and technique in order to start with the pabo without admission tests;]] [[calls on the government to step up the support of upcoming pabo students by enriching the self-study material on the site "Well prepared for the pabo," so that each upcoming pabo student can prepare for influx into the pabo;]] [[calls on the Government to open the steam courses in preparation for the admission tests for the pabo to all habo-graduates who want to go to the pabo and to all MBO-graduates who have not followed the "influx pabo" option,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the first group of students under the loan scheme can claim a €2,000 study voucher five to ten years after graduation;]] [[noting that, where appropriate, these students suffer from the failure of institutions to make the promised pre-investments;]] [[having noted that several motions were adopted in the Chamber on the amendment of the study voucher rules, so that these students benefit more from this and that the relevant motions were not carried out partly because of implementation problems at DUO;]] [[believes that it is important for students to pay off their student debt as quickly as possible, which contributes, inter alia, to broadening the possibilities of taking out a mortgage;]] [[calls on the government to adapt the current rules so that students who were already entitled to a voucher no longer receive a voucher, but instead that five years after graduation their debt is reduced by €2,000 and, if former students do not have a debt of €2,000, a cash payment is made,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Rog, Mr Rudmer Heerema, Mr Van Meenen and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-51]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Rog and Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-52]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Rog and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-53]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Rog, Mr Van der Molen, Mr Futselaar and Mr Westerveld. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-54]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u306	I've got another one. They're tall, aren't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u307	I'm so sorry!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u308	Well, one more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u309	The amount is large, but so is the length. But none of that matters.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u310	I'll give it to you. This is gonna be different next time. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas an impact of the agreement in the government agreement on differentiations at the primary education school (pabo), aimed at the young child and the older child, is still pending;]] [[noting that the admission tests do not allow potential kindergarten teachers to join the pabo, whereas these tests are not related to the curriculum applicable to pre-school education;]] [[noting that a high percentage of students fail during the training because they wish to teach the older child, but because of the attention paid to the young child during the training and/or the pre-school period;]] [[also noted that a high percentage of students fail during the training because they want to teach the young child, but rather because of the attention paid to the older child and/or internship during the training;]] [[calls on the Government to make it possible for students to choose, in addition to the current pabo, a specialised pabo for the young child or a specialized pabo for the older child and to adapt any admission requirements and competence requirements, in the course of drawing up the agreement on differentiation on pabo,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Rog and Mr Rudmer Heerema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-55]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u311	Haha, delicious!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u312	Mr. Wiersma, you remembered it all?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u313	I'm gonna go check him out. I was just curious about the first sentence in that... No. I have a question about the previous motion, about the cash is king motion, the ATM motion of the CDA, which calls for money to be paid out. I have heard many objections in replying to the Minister. Now I know the CDA as a very good party, who thinks carefully about the execution and doesn't send people out with things that aren't feasible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u314	So much for the compliment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u315	Sure. That's an expectation. I would like to ask Mr Rog if he is sure that this is feasible. How does he imagine that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u316	I think it is a very good and important point from Mr Wiersma. So I will also listen very carefully to the Minister's appreciation of this motion. But this is where we want to go. Perhaps you have also read that we have already adjusted the motion slightly, in the sense that the primacy really lies in reducing the debt rather than in the 'cash is king' story. So I would like to give that to Mr Wiersma. I hope he will listen with me to the Minister's appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u317	Finally, Mr Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u318	The CDA isn't worth a snipe either! Then they come up with a strong story in the first term...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u319	You started so well!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u320	...and then they're gonna back out here. No, I'm glad to hear that. I'm curious to hear the Minister's answers. Perhaps the motion could be further modified. Then maybe it'll be executable. I'm curious.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u321	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u322	Mr. Chairman. I want to make one more point. First of all... I have talked about religious education and humanistic education. We have received some answers. I am not convinced yet, but leave the option open to come up with an amendment on this. The second point I would like to make is that Mr Van Meenen will be explaining on my behalf an amendment on Teachers' Development Fund. We have talked about this now, but that is an important point. We tabled a motion on this during the previous budget debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u323	Thank you, Mr. Rog. I see that Mrs Westerveld wants to ask another question. Mrs. Westerveld, did you get a quick read?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u324	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Rog just asked me: what are you going to pay for it? He actually accused me of giving away free money. But I now have a motion in front of me, a motion for which the CDA has voted, calling on the government to give priority, in accordance with the NATO standard and in line with the Dijkgraaf motion adopted, to an early impact with a view to Defence beyond 2020. I would like to ask Mr Rog: what is the difference between voting for such a motion and the question I have just asked the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u325	I don't have that motion in front of me, so that does make us in different positions. So I find it difficult to respond to that. I don't know if there's any cover for that either. What I do know is that in our electoral programme, that is, an established electoral programme, we worked towards it. So that is at least a different situation from what is happening now, which I have addressed primarily Mr Van Meenen, but indeed also Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u326	I understand that Mr Rog does not have this text in front of him and that it will therefore be difficult to respond. But I'm sure I can tell him that this is also about money and a perspective after 2020. Only then it's about Defense, and what I did was ask for perspective for people who work in education.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u327	Thank you, Mr. Rog. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u328	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the directors for their comprehensive response. I have two motions, starting with a motion on the green picking. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that shortages in the labour market are pulling young people out of school by companies;]] [[noting that the number of early school leavers is increasing and green picking appears to be one of the causes of this;]] [[noting that the bbl-working learning route for the company provides an employee with training and that the student can also obtain his or her diploma, this is a route in which both interests come together;]] [[Whereas Wiersma and Others motion, which calls on the government to put in place a start-up qualification and to work out how employers implement it, did not deliver sufficient concrete agreements;]] [[Considers that companies have an obligation to help these young people still have a start-up qualification;]] [[Calls on the Government to consult with SMEs the Netherlands and VNO-NCW to conclude an agreement on how these young people can still obtain a labour market qualification, within six years of the date, for example via a bbl-route;]] [[also invites the Government to inform the Chamber before 1 April 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuik and Mr Smals. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-56]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u329	Then there is the motion on master's training, which I have tabled together with Mr Bruins of the Christian Union. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting the importance of craftsmanship and the crucial role of MBO training in training professionals;]] [[noting that studying after an MBO course often means that you are more general and theoretical, whereas specialisation and deepening in craftsmanship can certainly be so useful and important;]] [[noting that this deepening, whether after some work experience or not, should be offered via the master and companion route by MBO institutions, in cooperation with branches and companies and in the event of successful completion of the master's degree;]] [[calls on the Government to identify what is needed, both financially and legally, to introduce master training in the funded education system, to discuss this with branches and the MBO Council and to submit it to the Chamber before the summer of 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kuik and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-57]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u330	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. "Thankfulness," that seemed to be a fairly central term in the cabinet's response today. 'Cause there's so much going on. Couldn't we have thought about that a little longer? "I could have walked with you myself." That's what the minister said about the education strike yesterday. I don't think that's necessarily necessary. I'd say avoid it next time. Make sure that teachers don't have to go on the streets again. It is the third time this cabinet period that education has shut down the work, and we have a while to go. Education, which does not like to cease at all. I said yesterday, a lot of teachers don't feel heard. I'm afraid it's gonna stay that way. I spoke to some of the teachers I mentioned yesterday in my story at dinner break, and at least I couldn't convince them to sing it out until the second term. To be honest, I didn't try very hard to do that either, because I didn't think I was going to be able to convince them. During that break I also saw that PO in action spread a message from a group 3, in which today there were 47 students. 47 students in one group 3. I already have my hands full with one child of one and a half! All these signals do not match the attitude I hear from this cabinet today. Yes, of course everything happens, but if the end result is that the teacher shortage is increasing, then you have to conclude that it is not enough. You hear caricatures coming by from the shortage and also from the attitude of the Chamber against that deficit, which I think: sorry, that just does not do justice to the situation. Let me give you a few examples. One. The minister says, with an extra half hour, you've solved three-quarters of the shortage of teachers. The average teacher has been working unpaidly for seven hours now! The average teacher who works for four days does that because he wants to be finished after five days of work. Then you can say "with an extra half hour we have solved the shortage of teachers," but it is because of failing government policies that those people do not work that half hour extra. The Minister also said: it is naive to think that you will only solve this problem with money. That's right. There is really no one in this Chamber who has said: the moment you pull a bag of money out of the closet tomorrow, the teacher shortage will be resolved. Nobody! We also understand that it is more complicated, but one thing I know for sure: without that bag of money, it is not going to work. That is why there are two proposals. The first is about secondary special education. We've talked about this before. I will come back to the discussion we had on the salary. There's something wrong with that. Everyone wants to get rid of that unequal reward, but it doesn't happen. The Minister then says: that is complicated; that has grown historically. The strange thing is that teachers in practical education, for example, are paid according to the collective agreement of secondary education. Practical education came from special secondary education, but for that group it was possible, and rightly so, in my opinion. Then it must be possible for this group to arrange as well. I am going to vote firmly in favour of the PvdA's amendment on that point. The creation of new schools for special education. The Minister says he will come back to this in the evaluation of appropriate education. I think that is simply too long. There are now waiting lists and there are now children who are stuck in regular education unnecessarily long. A little bit off the charts, which are worse than they should be in special education. We can't do that to children. We should not do this to children and therefore the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the number of pupils in special education and special primary education is increasing again and that there are considerable waiting lists in the meantime;]] [[noting that the establishment of new schools for special education and special primary education is virtually impossible;]] [[Considers that special education for a specific group of pupils with a care or support question is an excellent place to receive appropriate education;]] [[calls on the Government to remove the current legal barriers and restrictions to the establishment of special education schools and special primary education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kwint. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-58]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u331	Short was that motion, wasn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u332	Yes, very briefly. But Mr Kops makes them even shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u333	Yes. But he also had six, Mr President! I only have two. Then about the MBO and the function mix. We will come back to it in a moment, because I still have a reply from the Minister. In order to prevent this motion from being rejected on formal grounds, I have written function mix in the motion between quotes. I hope the Minister understands that this is about the agreements made on the transfer of wages. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the objectives of the "function mix" have not been achieved in the MBO;]] [[noting that the "function mix" in primary education was abolished in 2018;]] [[Whereas an increasing number of teachers on the MBO have been scaled down in the lower wage scales;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to abolish the "function mix" in the MBO and to make these funds available directly for higher salaries of teachers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kwint. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-59]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u334	Then thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u335	Thank you, Mr. Kwint. I now give the floor to Mr Futselaar on behalf of the SP. Mr. Futselaar, are you also a silent reserve?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u336	No, I consider myself a rather noisy reserve, Mr. Chairman. It is not my custom to contradict my colleague, Mr Kwint, but if he says that the cabinet is still there for a while, I find him very optimistic. Mr. Chairman. Two motions from the SP. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that students with disabilities are significantly more delayed than other students due to the additional costs they incur for this purpose;]] [[Considering that students with a disability prior to the introduction of the loan scheme were entitled to an additional year of basic grant of around €3,400 and that this was replaced by a waiver of €1,200 on their student debt with the introduction of the loan scheme;]] [[Whereas this has led to a deterioration in students with disabilities;]] [[Whereas students with disabilities find other target-specific financial provisions such as the profiling fund very difficult;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to raise the waiver to €3,400 to accommodate students in the delay due to their disability,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-60]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u337	Mr. Chairman. The second motion is very long, but there is a reason, which I will explain. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the implementation of the Van Rijn report by the Minister of Engelshoven will mean, among other things, that financial resources will be transferred from gamma, alpha and medical sciences to science and technology universities and the Dutch economy can be characterised as being a knowledge-based economy;]] [[Whereas the implementation of the Van Rijn report is likely to increase the workload for university staff;]] [[Whereas the implementation of the Van Rijn report will have a negative impact on the financial stability of university faculties;]] [[Whereas the implementation of the Van Rijn report threatens to reverse the positive effects on the improvement of the quality of education resulting from the means of study;]] [[Whereas studies at technical faculties of classical universities are disadvantaged compared to studies at technical and beta universities in the implementation of the Van Rijn report;]] [[Whereas current social problems call for an interdisciplinary approach to problems, including the realisation of the energy transition, which means that investment in education and research is necessary across the board;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to declare that the redistribution of financial resources or funds playing university faculties against each other is undesirable, at a time when it calls for a multidisciplinary approach to problems;]] [[calls on the Cabinet not to carry out the redistribution of funds as described in the Van Rijn report,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-61]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u338	Mr. Chairman. The reason that motion was so broad-minded is that I did not write it, but that that Saturday at the D66 Congress will be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u339	Okay. And now for the truly silent reserve: Mr Van Meenen on behalf of D66. Yeah, what are you gonna say?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u340	Mr. Chairman. I'll get to that first. I could have been a quiet spare. I could have been home for ten years with a generous, gold-plated scheme, but I chose to stand here in the Chamber and fight for education. You got it. That's nice work. Just like math teacher is good work. Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the directors for their answers and also for their commitments, for example for the crystal clear language that the Minister has spoken about parents' unwelcomeness for the classroom. Mind you, unauthorized parents and grandparents, I'd like to add. We have already said a great deal about what I refer to briefly as the motion I was able to table with Mrs Westerveld on the future. What are we going to do in the next cabinet period? It is a pity that I am not asked what we could afford to pay for it, because then I could either make a joke and say 'from the weed tax' or I could say: 'We had an election programme of 3.8 billion last time. Only half of that has been realized, so there is still room; I am confident about it." But it is important that with as many parties as possible in this Chamber we give the confidence to do whatever the parties in the field ask us to do. Mr. Chairman. One more thing. I have not been able to table an amendment because Bureau Legislation, which always serves us day and night, has already gone home today. Fine, I'd like to give it to them. But that is an amendment that I, along with Mr Rog, if he has just said, and which makes it possible to launch and maintain the only successful part of the education corporation and the teacher register, namely the Teacher Development Fund. We want to withdraw from three budgets an amount of €333,000, bringing you to almost EUR 1 million in order to do so. So that amendment is coming up. Mr. Chairman. Then two motions. The first is as follows. The Chamber, heard the debate...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u341	Before you go any further. The Legislative Bureau works day and night, especially in the budget debates. From the non-verbal statements in the Chamber, I take the view that the amendment has actually already been distributed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u342	Oh, I don't know. That's good. Well, then it worked. It's also a fantastic desk. We can say that again. Is that what Mr Kwint wanted to say? I suppose he's just supporting it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u343	I just saw it on his face.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u344	Thank you very much. I'd already started the motion, but I'm gonna start over. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting the need for institutions to ensure full, effective and effective participation of students;]] [[Whereas there is a great deal of difference between MBO institutions in the extent to which they involve students in quality agreements;]] [[Whereas participation of students improves the quality of education and promotes the successful elaboration of agreements;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with JOB and the MBO Council, to agree on the facilitation of student councils, e.g. with national hourly standards,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there is currently a hard line between childcare and primary school through separate legislation and regulation;]] [[noting that this is not in line with the practice where many schools play a broad role as Integral Child Centre, Window School or Broad School;]] [[Whereas these initiatives deserve scope to be renewed in providing tailor-made solutions in the interests of the child's development;]] [[calls on the government, through an experimental article, to provide wide-ranging schools to form toddler/pre-school groups,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Meenen, Mr Van den Berge and Mr Smals. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-62]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Meenen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-63]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u345	Mr President, it was my pleasure to serve with you again. I hope I behaved nicely today, just like yesterday.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u346	Nice. And it's mutual. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u347	Okay. Have a nice day.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u348	I'll see you, too. Thank you, Mr. Van Meenen. I now give the floor to Mr Paternotte on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u349	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much for leading this wonderful budget handling of the most important budget known to the Empire. Many thanks to the directors for their answers and, of course, to officials who have been working hard on the answers to all the questions raised by the Chamber. Of course also thanks to the team education of D66, those two people in the back of the room who make it possible for Paul van Meenen and I to do our work here. Analysis does everything, I hear Mr. Heerema say. But Tariq also does a lot, I just wanted to report it. Mr. Chairman. I have three motions and then a few more questions. The first motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that when taking out a mortgage study loans from the new loan scheme with a weighting of 0.45%, the former student's mortgage space is limited;]] [[whereas the weighting is based on an interest rate of 4.2% while the low interest rate on the sovereign debt is a structural phenomenon according to the CPB;]] [[calls on the Government to ask the Nibud for advice on the weighting of student loans in the case of mortgages where assumptions on interest rates are reconsidered and to amend the existing advice on the weighting of student loans where appropriate,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that through the loan system universities and colleges have to spend up to EUR 574 million more in 2024;]] [[noting that universities and colleges of higher education have made or are making agreements with students and teachers on the investment of these resources in the quality of education;]] [[expresses the view that, in the event of a future adjustment of the loan system, the budget invested in education should not be affected,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Paternotte and Mr Wiersma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-64]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Paternotte and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-65]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u350	My third motion, Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that, last year, only 17 research proposals of the 325 pre-proposals and the 89 detailed proposals were finally accepted by the National Science Agenda;]] [[Whereas it is a great deal of work for researchers to set up consortia;]] [[invites the Government, in consultation with NWO, to examine whether the two-yearly extension of the application for research by consortia in the NWA contributes to the improvement of the remuneration rates,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Paternotte and Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-66]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u351	This will make this the Paternotte/Bisschop motion. And if you turned that around, it would probably be the most Catholic motion in the history of parliament. But she was still presented by two Protestant boys, I can just testify. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to say the following. Yesterday I had an interesting, brief debate with Mr Wiersma on the Central Planning Office. I asked about the VVD's election program. That's happened before here tonight. In my view, Mr Wiersma was quite right to point out that it is complicated that the CPB is passing on the financial and economic effects of our programmes, and that everything that you invest in education actually seems to cost money. Now, of course, money is not the reason we invest in education. For D66, education is important because we want to give people opportunities. We want everyone to get the best out of themselves. You need to be able to develop your talents, discover fire and get the inspiration from all those teachers who do this work to lead your life. But, of course, that education also provides us with money. It would be good if the CPB could map out something about that. The CPB has now indicated that it is not possible to calculate the sustainable earning capacity and the extent to which education can increase it. However, it would be desirable if it were to be clear which measures in the fields of education, research and innovation contribute to structural growth. That is why I would ask the government to ask the CPB to do a study on what is now a promising productivity policy from the perspective of education, research and innovation, because that can influence our considerations here. Let me just say: for D66, it does not mean that we base our investments on that, because, like other parties like GroenLinks, we have already proposed billions of investment in education. But we hope, of course, that such a study will also help society to see that education provides more than just development opportunities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u352	Thank you, Mr. Paternotte. I now give the floor to Mrs Van den Hul on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u353	Mr. Chairman. Yesterday, when the gallery was a lot fuller than it is today, I said: this debate feels like a surreal debate. By the way, I would like to thank the people who are still here in the gallery. Throughout the country tens of thousands of teachers laid down their work yesterday. And this cabinet certainly insists that it should choose in scarcity. Of course, that is bullshit; this cabinet makes choices in abundance. And those choices are clearly not in favour of the so-called top priority "double education'. The cabinet does not choose to close the pay gap, which both teachers and school administrators and parents clearly ask for, as part of the solution to the shortage of teachers. I would like to make that clear once again to Mr Slob. The best thing the strikers get is a soft promise that some of the current coalition parties will be willing to invest structuralally in the next formation, in two years' time, if there are more than 4,000 vacancies. Our children, teachers, school leaders and parents can not wait two years, two years in which classes are sent home, in which four-day school weeks are introduced, and in which vulnerable children also suffer from this shortage of teachers. For them, I will break another lance per motion. Since teachers, children, school leaders and parents cannot wait another two years, I also table a number of amendments. Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the first of my three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government is currently identifying the problems caused by the shortage of teachers in practice;]] [[noting that the Education Inspectorate warns that the lack of teachers is conducive to inequality of opportunity, inter alia because it is uneven;]] [[calls on the government to follow up the implementation of the Quint c.s. motion. (35000-VIII, No 192) to clarify the effects on equality of opportunity resulting from the shortage of teachers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Hul, Mr Kwint and Mr Westerveld. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-67]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u354	Mr. Chairman. Two more motions to prevent this cabinet, in addition to refusing to tackle the shortage of teachers seriously, from financing our higher education. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the Association of Collaborative Dutch Universities indicates that the transfer of the funds proposed by the Van Rijn Committee from medical, alpha and gamma studies to science and technology studies leads to a reduction in the former studies which can reach EUR 100 million;]] [[Whereas the effects of this reduction are not clear but are likely to lead to the loss of hundreds of jobs and an increase in the already high workload;]] [[noting that, nevertheless, science and technology studies need financial impetus;]] [[Calls on the Government not to shorten the medical, alpha and gamma studies before the completion of the study on the adequacy and effectiveness of higher education funding and thus the consequences for alpha, gamma and medical studies are fully understood;]] [[calls on the government to use the EUR 37 million soft landing for alpha, gamma and medical studies provided for in the current plans for the science and technology studies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that as a result of the repeal of the legislative proposal Amendment of the Study Finance Act 2000 in connection with a change in the interest rate rate for the Higher Education Loan, EUR 226 million has been technically entered into the education budget;]] [[noting that the proceeds of this unintroduced legislative amendment would have benefited the Treasury;]] [[calls on the government to include this austerity in the state-wide remit and not to put it at the expense of the primary process in higher education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Hul. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-68]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van den Hul, Mr Futselaar and Mr Westerveld. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-69]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u355	Thank you very much, Mrs Van den Hul. I now give the floor to Mr Bruins on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u356	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both ministers very much for their clear response. We have dealt with a lot of issues. Yesterday was also a beautiful day, with full stands. There are a few other things I would like to highlight. First of all, I am pleased that I was able to present the craftsmanship action plan here during the budget debate, and that we were also able to talk immediately about the idea of a master route for specialist craftsmanship. You have seen that I have tabled a motion on this subject with Mrs Kuik. I also make the Minister's cautious positive response to that point. I can't wait to see what happens next. I would also like to thank him for the commitment to include the vocational schools in discussions on such a exploration. I have an amendment to part No. 28 on extra money for the regional approach teacher shortage, as well as some motions with colleagues here in the Chamber. I have one motion left of my own. That is a real Coalition-Y motion, drawn up together with the young people of Coalition-Y, whom I spoke here yesterday morning in the House of Representatives. The motion was also signed by all coalition-Y political parties, so I have eight signatures underneath it. That motion sounds like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that since 2015 students are no longer included in the purchasing power calculations of the Nibud;]] [[noting that we are losing sight of the financial situation and behaviour of students;]] [[Whereas it is important to have a structural understanding of the financial situation and behaviour of both MBO, HBO and WO students in order to have a transparent debate on this group;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that students are included in the annual purchasing power calculations of the Nibud and that the biennial student research is carried out structurally, by the Nibud or otherwise by another party,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Bruins, Mr Van den Hul, Mr Van Raan, Mr Westerveld, Mr Futselaar, Mr Bishop, Mr Sazias and Mr Kuzu.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-70]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u357	Thank you, Mr President. We have indeed co-signed a motion because we have signed the Coalition-Y manifesto. Although I must say that it gives me some thought if students have to worry about purchasing power cards. But we'd like to talk to these students about that one time. Mr. Chairman. The debate on the education budget: understanding, but not additional structural money. That is actually one of the main conclusions of this debate. We have four motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that several companies influence young children through sponsorship, guest classes and technical festivals;]] [[calls on the Government to consider, in parallel with the exploration of informal training, whether and how the Education Inspection can have a supervisory role on those elements of education organised by companies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Hunters' Association promotes pleasure hunting and drift hunting in its teaching material for primary school children;]] [[noting that drift hunting is partly prohibited in the Netherlands;]] [[considers that there should be no need to promote the killing of animals;]] [[calls on the government to warn schools about hunting material,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting the widespread desire in science and society to reduce animal testing on monkeys;]] [[Observed the widely adopted motion to reduce the number of experiments on non-human primates in the BPRC to zero, without affecting research into the control of life-threatening diseases and infectious diseases that threaten public health;]] [[Whereas this phasing-out can be accelerated by transferring part of the budget for animal research to animal-free research on an annual basis;]] [[calls on the Government to consider an increasing proportion of the research budget for the BPRC as money earmarked for animal-free research and test methods,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government has presented a circular agricultural vision, in which it rightly notes that the current way of food production is not sustainable;]] [[noting that the shift to circular agriculture is now taking place;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the extent to which the current organisation of agricultural education is in line with the shift to circular agriculture,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-71]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-72]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan and Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-73]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-74]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u358	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u359	Thank you, Mr. Van Raan. I thought I was the only one who had trouble speaking the word "circle-loop-agriculture," but you do, Mr. Van Raan. That's okay. Mr Bishop, on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u360	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the directors for their reply to the questions and for their written reply. My thanks to the official support are included. I am not saying that I am somewhat disappointed by the response to our amendment to do something in the short term for students under the loan system, to prevent generations of students, thousands of students, from getting into trouble, from getting under pressure and so on over the next few years. I'm maintaining that amendment. I'm hoping for a good rash. I'm filing two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that teachers who are competent in terms of content for working with the young child are unable to work as competent because they do not meet the requirements developed for the upper secondary level of primary education;]] [[Whereas the draft new system of powers will not be available until the end of 2020;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how more tailor-made work can be offered in the short term with regard to the powers of working with the young child,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas it is still unclear when a possible change of law on home education will come into force;]] [[noting that compulsory education officials in different municipalities threaten to report to Safe Home when parents apply for the statutory exemption for conscientious objection, while the law only provides for criminal enforcement;]] [[noting that the law and case law do not lead to the conclusion that parents have to express their objections for each school in the wide perimeter of their home, since this is sometimes the practice that is required but that it must be clear what their objections consist of;]] [[calls on the Government, together with the Association of compulsory education officials (Ingrado) and the Association of Dutch Municipalities (VNG), to work to improve information on the position of parents and children in the exemption on grounds of conscientious objection,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop and Mr Rog. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-75]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bishop, Mr Bruins and Mr Rog. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-76]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u361	And I would also like to thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u362	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Kuzu on behalf of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u363	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Ministers for answering the questions and, of course, I would also like to thank them for their support. In the written answer of the set I missed the answers to the questions about the student card, but I received the answers. The Minister has responded, but I would like to stress here that flexibility is important. I have mentioned about 220 days as an example, but if the Minister says that there can be 250, I am of course fine with that. I'll be the last one to stop that. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that studying costs a lot of money;]] [[Considering that costs have increased further since the introduction of the social loan system in 2015;]] [[Whereas the increasing costs on the housing market and the further flexibilisation of the labour market already make it difficult for young people;]] [[invites the government to explore whether the student's annual card can be made flexible by not restricting its choice to a weekly card or a weekend card, but by allowing it to be valid for example 220 days a year at the student's choice,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-77]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u364	Mr. Chairman. My second motion concerns the social loan system. I would like to announce in advance that we, as DENK, have really not done so for a very long time that I would like to ask for a roll-call vote on this subject. In the Chamber there is a narrow minority, a very narrow minority at the moment for changing the system. I'm really looking forward to seeing the CDA's colleagues. You can make a difference. Perhaps I look even more eagerly at the colleagues of the Christian Union. You can make a difference to tens of thousands of students on this subject. So also on behalf of all those students, it is not necessarily all DENK'ers who appeal to you. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the social loan system has been in existence for four years;]] [[Whereas this is an unnecessary financial disadvantage for young people and unnecessarily exposed to debt stress;]] [[calls on the government to start work as soon as possible on a system whereby students receive a decent basic grant, students with low-income parents receive an adequate supplementary grant and as far as possible avoid debt building for students,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-78]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u365	Of course, I am also trying to be consistent, because here too we have made an appointment with the lovers of the loan system for this period of government. We cannot change that at this time. What we are going to do is to work with other parties to find a solution. That is what we are trying to prepare for after this reign.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u366	I think that when you're in the media and you're really getting over this, you can also be big in the House of Representatives. I see that the colleagues of the VVD support me in that. Good. A coalition fit on this subject. It's worth it, I think. But I really stick to my urgent appeal to the CDA and certainly to the Christian Union. My final motion concerns gender diversity. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in primary education 85% of teachers are women and only 15% are men;]] [[Whereas gender diversity has a positive impact on the development of children;]] [[calls on the Government to set a gender diversity target in primary education, and to inform the Court in spring 2020, together with proposals on how these objectives are to be achieved,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-79]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u367	Thank goodness, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u368	Thank you, Mr. Kuzu. That also brings us to the end of the second term of office. Oh, Mr Futselaar has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u369	No, Mr. Chairman. I want to make a point of order.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u370	Tell me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u371	A lot of motions have been tabled, including quite a bit by coalition parties. You could explain that as a form of mistrust, but we're not gonna do that here. I would like to remind the directors that we have the agreement that if things are part of existing policies or have already been promised, motions should be given the advice "dissuade." I would ask you, Mr President, to pay close attention to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u372	Yeah, you're absolutely right. If a motion is policy support, then the motion is dissuaded. That is indeed the assessment framework. I think the rulers know that, too, don't they? Otherwise, I have a copy here for you. Yeah? Thank you. How long do you think you'll need to prepare the answer? Oh, you can answer right away. I appreciate that very much. I shall first give the floor to the Minister for Education, Culture and Science. 48 motions have been tabled. Maybe you could start by telling me which motions you're taking on?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u373	Mr. Chairman. That's a whole list. I must honestly say that after the General Political Reviews, where something was said about restraint with motions, I had expected that we would have a lot less than last year. During the evening I became a little more pessimistic about that, but I lost my bet with Mr Slob. I thought we were going to add the same number last year, namely 50. That didn't happen. We just stayed under it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u374	Nevertheless...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u375	Nevertheless, there are quite a lot of them. If you would first like to have the list of motions I am going to comment on, I can say that if I have kept up my records well, this is the motions on pieces Nos. 32, 35, 37, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 48, 49, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 59, 60, 61, 62, 64, 65, 67, 68, 69, 72, 73, 76 and 77 are.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u376	In short, everything. Bingo!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u377	And Mr. Slob will do the rest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u378	Good. Maybe if you call the number equal, we can watch.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u379	I'm gonna try to get through it as staccato as possible, without failing anyone. The movement Kops/Beertema in part No. 32 is a call to reduce the part-time factor. It is given by our Court of Justice, on the understanding that we continue to assume that this must be a choice of people. The motion-Kops c.s. in piece No. 35, on visa applications from Chinese and Iranian students, is not recommended. In the written reply we indicated exactly why. The motion by Mr Rudmer Heerema and Mr Rog to item No. 37 is also about the part-time factor and about pensioners. We'll pass judgment on that Chamber. We are launching a study of the practical obstacles in teachers and will also partly return to the part-time part-time part-time part-time part-time part-time part-time part-time part-time part-time part-time part-time part-time part-session in the policy response to ibo.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u380	You may also take over motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u381	The motion gets judgment Chamber. Then there is the Wiersma motion on part No. 42 on the practical route and distance learning. I would ask Mr Wiersma to hold this motion. I also discussed with him in the debate that I will give him an overview of what is going on with these practical routes and distance learning and where we can further promote it. We are going to continue that discussion on the strategic agenda, so I would like him to continue the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u382	Mr. Wiersma, are you holding the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u383	I have a question for you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u384	I have a question, too. If Mr Wiersma does not hold the motion, what is the verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u385	Then I advise against the motion, because I find it really premature now. First, I want to give you some insight into how that happens. I really think it is something for the strategic agenda, which comes on 2 December. Then let's get back to it. That's why I find this really premature.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u386	A quick question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u387	The motion calls for this overview to be given when we discuss the strategic agenda, I believe, in February, so that is precisely to give you the opportunity to give that overview. Then I can use it for that. That's the motion. If the Minister does not do so, I simply have to submit it, because I do need that information in order to be able to involve it in the strategic agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u388	All right, then the motion will be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u389	I think the motion went a little further than that, and that is also apparent from the text. Let me put it this way: if I can interpret the motion in such a way that it is really about that inventory, without us actually indicating what needs to be done now, but that it is really about where it is going and then a discussion on the strategic agenda, then this judgment will be given to the Chamber. Then I come to the Wiersma/Bruins motion on part No. 43 on valorisation. He's gonna get judgment, Room. The Wiersma/Van den Hul motion in part No. 44 on flex-studies we advise against. I made it clear in the debate why.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u390	What number was that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u391	The motion in part No. 44. Then the Wiersma c.s. motion. in piece No. 45, about the profiling fund. He's gonna get judgment, Room. Then there is the Wiersma/Van der Molen motion on part No. 46 on internationalisation. In part, I understand what Mr Wiersma wants, but the motion is formulated in such a way that it gives the impression that we want to stimulate one thing, but specifically limit the other. Mr Paternotte also mentioned a very good example of where we can benefit from internationalisation. Suppose many international students come to study international law as former alderman I say: preferably in The Hague. They will therefore learn how international law, conceived in the Netherlands, is anchored with democratic values and the importance of multilateral cooperation. Then it is not students who come here primarily to increase Dutch earning capacity, but to spread a number of values that we as a country consider important internationally. I would say that I do not want to put a brake on that in favour of other students. I really think you should look wide. I think that the motion as it has now been formulated is too much 'we want to steer one and we want to limit the other'. That's why I'm betraying her. The motion in part No. 48 from Mrs Westerveld gets judgment Chamber. I believe that this is in line with what I have said here before. The motion in part No. 49 is a "spoken" of the Chamber, so I do not judge it, although I do. That's up to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 53 of Mr Rog and Mr Bruins on the support of upcoming pabo-students is judged Chamber. It's a sympathetic proposal. We're gonna see how we can make that happen. The motion in part No. 54 on the study advance vouchers. I'd like to ask you to hold that motion for a moment. I indicated in the debate that there are still a few problems. I really want to map it out for you, so that you can really make a sound decision. Mr Wiersma has already given some encouragement to this. So hold her until we can provide you with more information. If you don't, I'll have to dissuade her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u392	If the Minister is going to work with enthusiasm to indicate this with a positive attitude in that letter, then I am going to keep it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u393	You can always count on my enthusiasm for requests you make to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u394	At the request of Mr Rog, I propose his motion (35300-VIII, No. 54). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u395	Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 55 on the differentiation in the pabo I don't recommend. I have made it clear how these specializations are being worked and how we intend to do so carefully in the coming year in line with the opinion of the Education Council. This means that we do not want to make a cut in the pabo as of the coming academic year. I think that is an irresponsible, too quick step. So I'm gonna dissuade that motion. The motion in part No. 56 by Mrs Kuik and Mr Smals on the green picking will be judged Chamber. I am convinced with you that employers also see this importance. I'll talk to them and see if we can come to an agreement. I hope so, too. Then the motion to part No. 57, about master's training. He's gonna get judgment, Room. I will indeed investigate how that is possible. If you want to do that in public funded education, it's not free. Mrs Kuik knows that I indicated that. I would like to say to Mr Kwint that I have his motion in part. 59 about the function mix in the mbo currently wants to dissuade. We are really still talking to the sector about the function mix in the MBO. I will soon be discussing this with the Platform for Participation, which you have probably provided the necessary information. Exactly: the whole package. I'd like to talk to them about that first. We will also evaluate the agreement made in 2020. I really want to take a good look at that before we reach a verdict. Perhaps it is a suggestion to hold the motion until then, so that we can discuss it further as a result of the evaluation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u396	Does the minister have any indication when that would be?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u397	For the summer? Around the summer of 2020. At least for the next budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u398	Look! Okay. In that case, I'll hold her for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u399	At the request of Mr Kwint, I propose his motion (35300-VIII, No. 59). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u400	Then the motion to part No. 60 by Mr Futselaar. I understand very well what Mr Futselaar is asking. I should also like to ask him: please hold this motion. We are currently working on the policy review of study funding and the evaluation of the study advance. You know that. In this we investigate whether the system creates barriers for groups of students, including students with disabilities. I hope that research will also contain building blocks to determine where we can do very targeted repairs. I really think this is a useful category to look at, so hold the motion until we have the investigation on Mr Klaver's motion. Then we can see which barriers are specific to this group, so that we can see what is possible, if necessary, of repairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u401	I'm just gonna sleep a little bit longer about whether or not I'm gonna hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u402	It's okay. You can think about that until Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u403	Then the motion to part No. 61. I'd advise against it. Then the motion to part No. 62, on facilitating student councils. He gets "judge chamber." Then there is the motion on the weighting factor for student debt. That motion is asking me to have another look at it. He gets "judge chamber." That concerns the motion in part No. 64. The motion in part No. 65 is a "spoken" motion. There is no request from the cabinet for an opinion on this. The motion in part No. 66 I had by mistake, I hope you didn't notice! Not mentioned in the list of motions I would judge, but they get "judge chamber." We're gonna find out if that works. In the meantime, a question from Mr Paternotte: does the cabinet want to ask the CPB if the CPB can look at the impact of education and develop lifelong on collectivity, and does the CPB want to include it in the growth models? That's what we'll ask the CPB. I think it's good to do that. Then the motion to part No. 68 by Mrs Van den Hul. It will not surprise you after the debate: it is not recommended. As regards the motion in part No. Mrs van den Hul's 69 will not surprise you either: it is being dissuaded. The same applies to the motion in part No. 70 by Mr Bruins and others. Look, this has been discussed with the Nibud before. There's a very good reason they don't do that anymore. With the introduction of the loan system... I hear someone saying outside the microphone: the numbers got too bad. No, the numbers didn't get too bad, but the basic grant was a lump sum. We don't know how many students borrow, when your purchasing power depends very much on how much you borrow. So that gives very difficult questions in the purchasing power picture. Nibud himself has indicated that they do not want to do this anymore, also because the situation of students changes too often. They don't think they can provide reliable data for that. If Nibud really says they don't want to do that, then I don't think it makes much sense to tell you that we're asking you again. So I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u404	For your explanation. There is indeed a need to borrow more nowadays, but in the old situation with the basic grant there was also borrowed. So I can imagine that the figures would show a somewhat broader point cloud when it comes to purchasing power calculations, but I still think it is possible. But we still have the biennial student research. This was done in 2015 and in 2017. I would like to see this structuralally, including in 2019 and 2021. I would at least expect the Nibud to be able to continue. So I would appreciate it if the Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u405	... judging Room?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u406	... again to enter into the conversation with the Nibud about this. I am going to put the motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u407	Yeah, you're free to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u408	Look, the part of the two-year student research I'd like to discuss with Nibud. Perhaps it is an idea to amend your motion so that the section on purchasing power figures comes out, but you only ask for the biennial examination. I think it makes sense to have that conversation with the Nibud. We'd still be able to find each other there. Mr Van Raan's motion for a resolution 73, about the BPRC, we advise against. That will be no surprise after the previous debates on this subject. In the motion in part No. 74 the government is invited to examine how green education is compatible with circular agriculture. I advise against this motion. We are not, of course, talking about the curriculum in the whole of education. When it comes to vocational education, the sector and education are discussed, for example, about the qualification structure, so that they take what the sector is going to into the curriculum. But the qualification structure in vocational education is determined primarily there and not by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u409	We are not asking for the Minister to establish a curriculum, as she claims. That's not true. The top sectors are being looked at in conjunction with business; there is coordination and government guidance on what should be done. So I'm a little surprised about this weird treatment. Perhaps the Minister could explain this again, because it is doing so in this area and it is not doing so in this area. That's weird. Maybe she can explain it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u410	Maybe I can interpret "research" in such a way that I bring your request to the attention of the SBB. After all, it looks at the qualification structure and agreements are made between education and industry. Then I can say: see if green education prepares for circular construction in a good way. If I may interpret your request in this way, I'll give the motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u411	Thank you for that interpretation. If there is a feedback, we can find each other completely, because it would be nice to know what comes out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u412	We have previously talked about circularity in the qualification structure, so in a subsequent progress report on the MBO, when there is a logical time to talk about qualification structures, I will tell the Chamber how the sector looks at this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u413	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u414	The Bishop/Rog motion in part No. 75 on working with the young child I advise against. We are basically looking at the structure of powers. We'll get back to you then. We want to do this in a more integrated way. Then there is the Kuzu motion in part No. 77. I understand what you're trying to do, but the motion is still being dissuaded. We don't see exactly what you're trying to solve with this. It will also generate costs by breaking the contract with the transport companies. I'm not inclined to break that contract right now. Then there is the Kuzu motion in part No. 78. You won't be surprised that it's not recommended. The Kuzu motion in part No. 79 on gender diversity we also advise against.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u415	Everyone's quiet. Suddenly it's quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u416	Why are we dissuading this motion? Because this motion really calls for a quantitative target. Given the challenge we face in primary education, I think: let us first and foremost ensure that there are enough teachers. This is without prejudice to the fact that, like you, I believe that the HRM policy of schools should take a close look at diversity. We encourage the school authorities to pursue a good HRM policy. But the real purpose of setting a quantitative target in this area is not the highest priority in discussions with school authorities at the moment. Mr. Chairman. Those were the motions that had to be provided for my judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u417	Mr. Van Raan, you have another question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u418	I have a short question. The motion in part No. 74 was about circular agriculture. Then the Minister said about the motion in part No. 75: I also advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u419	But it's not yours.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u420	I get that. But since you said "also," I got the impression that you might have the motion in part no. 74...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u421	No, I was just trying to speed things up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u422	Okay. So the motion in part No. 74 will be judged by the Chamber, after the interpretation we have agreed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u423	You just don't believe it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u424	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u425	My interruption concerns the motion on the flexibility of the annual card. The Minister asked me what problem this would solve. Flexibility! There are plenty of students who indicate that they do not want to be limited to a week or a weekend, but that they want to make their own choice. I understand the argument that contracts should be broken open. That's why the motion is asking for a reconnaissance. In any case, I would like to be informed about the costs involved in opening up contracts, so that we can consider them. If the Minister states that she is prepared to do so, I would be happy to hold the motion for the time being.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u426	It's hard to estimate the cost of breaking a contract. We just don't know. Each assessment is a blow in the air. At the moment when in such an O/V contract everything comes up for discussion again, and that comes up for discussion if you really make such a fundamental change in the contract I don't know where that ends. In my view, I would rather have the task of making the public transport card cheaper than running the risk of making it more expensive. I don't want to take that chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u427	Finally, Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u428	Since I do not know that risk, I regret to have to put the motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u429	Okay. Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u430	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the motion in part No. 33 by Mr Kops. If I may first of all consider whether it can actually be done legally, and I shall inform the Chamber very quickly, because that can already be done in the December letter, then I would like to give that motion a ruling on the Chamber. That's parallel to what happened at VWS. We'll be able to look at that together soon. I have serious doubts as to whether it's possible, but I'd like to find out. 'Cause if there's a mouse hole, we're gonna crawl in. Then the motion to part No. 34. I'd advise against it. We've talked about this before. The motion in part No. 36 of Mr Kops, Mr Bertema and Mr De Graaf I also advise against. This debate has also been held extensively once. The motion in part No. 38 of Mr Heerema and Mr Van Meenen actually say: can we not even look at a more flexible flow? You know there are two pilots running right now. If I can use the results of those pilots to make a next step, but then we have to go through these pilots in the next year, so I can give the motion judgment Chamber. I see the proposers nodding. Then the motion to part No. 39 by Mr Heerema. I shall give it, also in the light of the amendment, to the Court of Justice. The same applies to the motion in part No. 40, because it is also part of the amendment. Then the motion to part No. 41. Mr Heerema and I had a discussion about this. We talked a little bit past each other. I have indicated in general terms that if a school comes with an offer, it must also be accessible to everyone. So if parents can't afford it, then children should be able to participate. There there is no legal basis to be able to perform really well, also sanctioning. But you are also right, and sometimes life can do so when very specific support for children is needed. If a child really needs education support, it also needs to be delivered. Not only by the school itself, but also possibly in cooperation with the partnership. If that does not happen, there is indeed something serious going on. For that reason, I can give this motion judgment Chamber. Special: both worlds can be in this case, but you specifically mentioned a child who is entitled to education support. Then you can't refuse. I'm sorry that in the discussion was a bit of a coincidence, because I think that was my fault. The Westerveld motion. c.s. in piece No. 47 is a "spoken" motion, so it is up to the Chamber to decide. Then there is the Westerveld motion on part No. 50. It says "to be seen." I am prepared to see what is possible, first of all when it comes to officials. You ask a lot at once. If I get the room to put some energy in there first and to inform you about it, perhaps this calendar year too, I will give this motion judgment Chamber. Just before the report, I see a nodding head. Otherwise, I'll have to deal with it later, because I wouldn't have carried out the motion entirely. In the operative part of the motion-Rog c.s. in piece No. 51 on the super-statutory benefits states very clearly that we must make concrete agreements. I think the proposers also know how things are legally laid down in relation to responsibilities. But if I can understand this motion in such a way that we will bring it to the attention of those who have to make agreements at the collective bargaining table, I can give it its judgment Chamber, because then it will also fall within the legal framework.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u431	This is a point we've been talking about for a long time. I wasn't gonna ask you again, "God, call me again, it's important." The Minister is responsible for the system. We are talking about 40 billion in tax money for education. We want agreements to be made on this element, so more than 'bringing them to the fore', because that has happened often enough. I really don't think that's enough. I expect the Minister to have a real dialogue with the social partners, with the aim of reaching concrete agreements, for example, to make this shift from super-statutory to salary. I am not talking about the outcome here, but about the Minister's commitment to reaching concrete agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u432	However, for the sake of clarity, it is also about the position of the public authorities in the framework of agreements to be made at collective bargaining tables. I have to respect that, so I'm sticking to my point. I would like to bring it to the fore, as we did last time. That's what worked out at the time. If one insists on the operative part, I advise against the motion. If this motion is adopted, I shall proceed with it in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u433	Well, I don't know. If the motion is passed, then it is...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u434	But, Mr. Chairman, I can't go against the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u435	This is a point that we consider important and which we have drawn attention to several times. More taxpayers' money has now gone to education. We ask the Minister to commit himself to making concrete agreements. That goes beyond "bringing it to the attention of the public." If the Chamber adopts this motion, I expect the Minister to do his utmost to ensure that there is a reversal. That's what the Chamber's asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u436	We are in complete agreement on the objective, no doubt whatsoever. But we also have to respect the positions we have under laws and regulations. This goes even beyond labour law in the Netherlands. Here agreements are made at collective bargaining tables between the parties. I've indicated how I feel about it. Let's keep our eyes on the ball. Who knows that we will discuss this subject at a later date. For the motion-Kwint in part No. 58 I need a little more words, because we are talking about special education as well as special primary education. Those are a bit different positions, aren't they? I have also tried to make that clear in my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u437	There is also the motion on part No. 52.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u438	That's a "spoken" move. In addition, my colleague has already dealt with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u439	That's "spoken." That's true. It is true that you do not have to judge it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u440	Mr. Chairman. I take it back that the appropriate education is provided for in the Act as I indicated in the first period of my reply. It has something to do with it, but it is true that it is not explicitly regulated. Mr Kwint has a point there. It is also true that he indicated that the freezing of the planning procedure, both for so and for sbo, took place in '98. That's what we've changed before. In the case of special education and secondary special education, this does indeed mean that new schools cannot be set up unless there is a school situated in an area where there is an exceptional increase in population. This is regulated by the WEC, because that is the law in which it is laid down. So there's room, but it's bound by rules. It is also possible to set up a subsidiary in the so and vso. Since the adoption of the appropriate education law........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In case of an application for a branch before 1 February, it can even start on 1 August. So if it's necessary, it's going very fast. However, permission is required from the municipality and the association in the municipality where that subsidiary has to be established. I have indicated to you that we are having discussions on the waiting lists, including with LESCO. I want to wait and see if this is really the case. That's one part of the motion. The second part of the motion. I'm doing this very carefully because I know people in the country might be listening. They do that with everything, but this is a very specific one. It is true that special education is also subject to the freezing of the planning procedure. I have already indicated in the first term that this has finally come to school as a result of Weather Together. The schools for special education, the lom and the mug, were then dissolved and merged into the sbo, practical education and the lwoo. Under very specific conditions, as provided for in Article 87 of the Primary Education Act, an exception may be made. At the moment, I do not see any reason to change the law on that point. For that reason, I advise against the motion in part No. 58. They are two very different systems and also very different agreements in the law, which affect each other a bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u441	I know, 'cause in order to unravel those whole sucks, I had to dig into it until it made me miserable myself. If the Minister says he's taking it to the meeting to see if this is a problem and if this adjustment would help, and he'll come back to it after that, I'd better hold the motion. But in the second half of his answer, he seems to suggest a little bit more that it goes too far for him to change the law now and therefore he doesn't want it. If that's the case, I'll put him to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u442	That's the second part of the motion. So and sbo are just different and different agreements have been made. But you do ask in one motion to amend both. I have indicated to you that I am talking about the first issue to see if there are any real problems with the waiting lists and whether we should do something there. That is still very much the question. As far as the second part is concerned, I have indeed indicated that we do not see any reason to change the law on that point for the sco. Therefore, I strongly dissuade the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u443	Finally, Mr Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u444	You have only indicated in the second part that you see no reason to do so. I can see that reason, for example, the waiting lists. What is the reason why the cabinet does not see reason to change the rules on special primary education?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u445	That second part does, however, affect the whole development of appropriate education. In the appropriate education, we have developed the idea that we would like to see children with specific care needs created in schools. Some of this has been achieved and some of it may not have been done, but that will have to be demonstrated by the evaluation. We have allowed the sbo, the special primary education, to exist. There is also room for expansion under certain restrictions. As long as we have not yet had the evaluation and its completion, I see no reason to change this section in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u446	Mr. Kwint: either hold or put to the vote. What are you gonna do?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u447	No, I see a lot of reason for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u448	Okay, then the motion will be put to the vote. Mr. Rudmer Heerema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u449	Mr. Chairman. Because I need it for my voting advice that I have to turn in to my group tomorrow. I would also very much like to take a step or move here. Special education and special primary education are now in one motion. If this motion is not adopted and you say that you are talking to special education, can we expect this Minister to take steps as soon as possible? Because it's just necessary that these kids get a suitable place in education.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u450	No doubt at all. That is what we are working on right now, together with all kinds of organisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u451	Then proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u452	Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Meenen's amendment...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u453	Sorry, one more question, also because there are comments on this in the coalition agreement. Schools can be founded, set up. That could be a regular school or a school of special education or a special primary school. Does this motion have any financial consequences?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u454	If there is much more room for the establishment of schools, then of course it will cost money, and that will have to be financed in one way or another. But I think that's a little ahead of schedule. I would simply like to put at the heart of what Mr Kwint is doing, the problem that children may not be in the right place and whether it is necessary to create space for them. We're really keeping an eye on that. I will work on that and inform you on a regular basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u455	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u456	Mr. Chairman. The amendment on TeachersDevelopingFunds LOF came a bit out of the sky for me, because it did not come up in the first period. I think it's a little early, too, in a way. We're going to evaluate LOF in spring, in the first quarter of 2020. That evaluation must therefore determine whether or not it has promoted the objectives we had before. I don't know yet. The applicant has already drawn a conclusion on this. Maybe it's true. It is not a very large amount of money either, but to do so now and then again from the lump sum, I do not think that it is very chic towards these three sectors. To be honest, I think that is premature too, so I would advise against the amendment, but I will tell you this. If the evaluation shows that it is really a success and that more money is needed, I will make an effort to see if we can arrange it in the current year. Mr. Chairman. Then the motion to part No. 63 by Mr Van Meenen on an experimental article on broad schools. I advise against this motion. Wide schools can mix toddlers and toddlers as part of an activity. The Childcare Act currently excludes the permanent or structural merging of toddlers and toddlers into one group. In the Wko, as you know, there are requirements for the professional/child ratio and an offer in one tribal group, as it is so beautifully called. This is the responsibility of my colleague from Social Affairs. It is therefore not within my competence to give just a moment's space for this. What I can do, because I am also involved in this, is to work with the Education and Social Affairs Inspectorate to see what schools can do within the current legal framework in their offerings for toddlers and toddlers. We can also further facilitate schools to create space for that. I'd like to pick that up. We are also discussing this subject with each other, so I do not rule out any further steps in the future. But right now, an experimental article is going a little too fast for me. I therefore advise against the motion in part No. 63. Then Mrs Van den Hul has the motion in part No. 67. I don't recommend that motion. In any case, we are still working on Mr Kwint's motion. It's really powerfully complicated to see if we can do it properly. This motion is complicated and perhaps even impossible to implement. The subject itself is very important and we are working on it in many ways. You know that. We had a discussion on this about an own-initiative paper not so long ago and we are trying in all kinds of ways to support schools in it. I'm deceiving the motion in part No. 67.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u457	I hear what the Minister says. It is complicated, but we have also talked more often with the Minister about tailor-made solutions that should remove the concerns that are indeed there. The Youth Education Fund writes about it and the Education Inspectorate writes about it. Teachers report it from their own practice. The most vulnerable children are hit hardest by the shortage of teachers. If we do not know at which schools vulnerable children will experience what effects, it will make these tailor-made solutions very difficult. Then how are we gonna hand over that customization?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u458	That's a good question. We're already in the process of the Equal Opportunities Alliance. There will be a larger group of municipalities to deal with this together with them. We will be able to welcome a new group of municipalities in not too long, so that it becomes a larger mass and much more information becomes available to do so. Of course, this is all part of it, completely. But that is different from the fact that we now really have to carry out generic research that may even be impossible, even though we want that knowledge of course. We're gonna try to collect it through that Equal Opportunities Alliance. President. - The next item is the motion for a resolution (Doc. 71. I'd advise against it. I have already said something about this in my first term. The same applies to the motion in part No. 72. Mr Bishop's motion, Mr Bruins and Mr Rog's motion for a resolution 76 I'm judging Chamber. I would add that the legislative proposal will focus on providing good information on this issue. Mr President, I think I have had the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u459	Yes. Mr Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u460	I thought I'd let the minister finish. I would like to come back to the motion on the experimental article on childcare and primary school.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u461	Do you remember which number it had?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u462	That's the motion in part No. 63.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u463	Yes, it is. That's the motion in part No. 63. The Minister explains why he can't or why he betrays her, namely because there are different regulations. There is indeed different regulations for childcare and schools, and that is exactly what gets in the way of children and why we need to look at such an experimental article, because 4-year-olds are a completely random moment. One child may be ready to stay in kindergarten a little longer and the other can move on. It'd be nice if you'd give us room for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u464	I am well aware that this is a discussion that is being held and that, perhaps also in anticipation of the future, one would like to see experiments. You know that we are doing a lot of experiments in all kinds of ways. It's got to be executable, too. But this also has very specific responsibilities with regard to childcare, which my colleague from Social Affairs and Employment has in her portfolio. I do not feel entitled to do so, and I therefore advise against this motion to judge it in this way at this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u465	Finally, Mr. Van Meenen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u466	I understand that, and that's what makes it complicated. Perhaps then it will be possible for me to keep her and for the Minister, after consulting his colleague, to inform us of what the possibilities are now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u467	I'd be happy to. Without you right now having the illusion that the judgment might be different, I am prepared to discuss it with her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u468	At the request of Mr Van Meenen, I propose his motion (35300-VIII, No. 63). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u469	This brings us to the end of the debate on the budget for Education, Culture and Science.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-07-tweedekamer-10.u470	I thank the directors and thank the Members of Parliament. We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I would like to thank everyone, especially the people in education who have followed this debate and for whom this debate is very important. Of course, I would also like to thank the officials and the staff.
