ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-17.u1	We shall proceed immediately with a further debate. That is a general consultation report on the Dutch Food and Consumer Authority. Once again, Mrs Ouwehand is the first speaker on behalf of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-17.u2	Mr. Chairman. Things don't go well with the NVWA and then I express myself very carefully. We have had a debate following the investigation that the Minister had launched after the situation in the northern slaughterhouses had brought a little ball to bear. The sad thing is that the ball says so much about what we have known for a very long time. The investigation has shown that there are NVWA people who want to maintain, but there are also people who do not want to maintain at all. They seem a bit the boss. There is no reason to believe that this is only the case in the slaughterhouses examined. The Animal Party is seriously concerned about monitoring in other parts of the livestock chain. Also, the slaughter continues, while we have black-and-white that it is not properly maintained. That is why we have a number of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the investigation into NVWA's action in northern slaughterhouses revealed structural and serious deficiencies in the establishment and implementation of animal welfare and food safety monitoring;]] [[Whereas previous investigations carried out by, inter alia, the Security Research Council show that this situation has been continuing for years;]] [[Whereas there are unacceptable risks to animal welfare and food safety;]] [[calls on the Government to cease the slaughter of animals in the absence of proper supervision,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that staff members from the teams appointed to maintain in heavy animal welfare matters now appear to be distributed among other teams with broader task packages so that they can redirect colleagues in order to raise the level of enforcement;]] [[Whereas it is the responsibility of management to ensure uniform enforcement and that staff who are not well-functioning are managed, adjusted or removed;]] [[Whereas the animal welfare teams have proven to be of great value to the organisation in their current form, including when acting in northern slaughterhouses;]] [[calls on the government to maintain the current animal welfare teams of the NVWA and to instruct management to take responsibility for guiding and directing employees,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33835-132]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ouwehand and Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33835-133]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-17.u3	Mr Graus cannot be here today, but has also been hard on that point. That's why he's signing the motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-17.u4	Thank you. The next speaker on the side of the Chamber is Mr Moorlag, on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-17.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Normally I have the rule that a motion should not count more than 100 words, but in this motion I try to express some nuance. The motion reads as follows: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that there are compelling signals from society, including from the judicial chain, that there is insufficient pressure for enforcement and supervision of public interests, such as food safety and animal welfare, and for maintaining trust in the rule of law;]] [[Whereas, while efforts are being made to improve the organisation of NVWA, an Advisory Council has been set up to advise the Minister and the Management Board on the rethinking of NVWA, the outcomes and an implementation strategy;]] [[Whereas it is also desirable to identify in an independent, expert and authoritative manner for society and the Chamber the level of supervisory and enforcement pressure needed to safeguard public interests and to include views from the judicial chain,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33835-134]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-17.u6	Mr President, let me briefly explain. The NVWA has been facing persistent problems for years. There are shortcomings in the organisation and ICT. I have the impression that employees work hard, but the problem is persistent. The Advisory Board operates mainly at organisational level, but I think that monitoring and enforcement really needs to be looked at at system level. This must also be done independently and expertly by something or someone with the content of a Remkes committee or a Sorgblader committee, because the signals, which also sound from the judicial chain, are not wrong. There has been a conference and there have been publications saying that the credibility of supervision and enforcement is at stake. I think the Minister should take a serious look at that. In fact, she really needs someone who is authoritative, independent and competent to look at it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-17.u7	Thank you. I call Mr Futselaar on behalf of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-17.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The committee for LNV is usually a politically rather divided committee, but if something gives us agreement, it is the collective sigh that we sigh when something is wrong with the NVWA again. And there's a lot wrong with the NVWA. Despite the hard work done by many staff, there are structural problems, which may well be institutional ones. It's very tempting for us as a Chamber to micromanage, to say things about management layers that need to be removed, I've done that before, or about which teams should or shouldn't stay or be active or expanded. I chose not to. I shall not table a motion either, but I shall put one to the vote that I have held. It's a motion from October. I'll read the operative part. That's very useful. "calls on the Minister to appoint an external independent party to examine the actions or financial resources needed to equip the NVWA sufficiently for its tasks, and proceed to the order of the day." The only thing we are really talking about is the NVWA's finances. I really want someone to take a look outside and see if they're gonna be okay, because there's just too many signals that they're not gonna be okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-17.u9	You want the sustained motion 35300-XIV, no. Put to the vote 25. Do you remember the verdict on this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-17.u10	I was asked to apprehend her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-17.u11	Very good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-17.u12	I'm ready, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-17.u13	I have a question for Mr Futselaar, but not until I fully underline the introduction to his speech. That is also why I will not ask for the floor during this VAO. It has been a while since we had the debate. I have just asked at the procedural meeting to start an actual round of questions on the letter we received from the Minister on NVWA, so that we can talk about it again. My question to Mr Futselaar was whether he remembered the judgment on this motion, but that question was already on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-17.u14	May I explain for a moment, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-17.u15	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-17.u16	At that moment she said: "I am looking at NVWA again. We're in the process. Just wait for the outcome of that before you file the motion." At the moment, I have no confidence that the answer to the question I have, namely whether it is sufficient, will come from the NVWA itself. That is why I have tabled this motion and I shall put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-17.u17	Thank you. Then we will continue with Mr De Groot on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-17.u18	Thank you, Mr President. It is indeed very tempting to say something about the NVWA, but I think there have been enough external investigations now. After all, the Minister has indicated that she herself is in charge of the improvement process. Mr. Chairman. I do have a motion on the mobile killing unit. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas MDU cattle which are not transportable but for whom transport as a live animal is not possible or desirable may be killed at their own site after inspection by the veterinarian;]] [[Whereas the 2Solve report has identified serious shortcomings, such as the retention of the necessary care, and therefore the MDU pilot presents unacceptable risks to public health and animal welfare;]] [[Whereas, in order to avoid these risks, the inspection and enforcement of slaughterhouses and the MDU should be improved;]] [[calls on the government to adapt the pilot and to report the MDU massacres on the holding either as a death report or as a different category, so that it becomes clear how many MDU massacres take place per holding,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr De Groot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-33835-135]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-17.u19	Mr. Chairman. I realize that pilot is still in progress and is being evaluated. With this motion, I am concerned at the fact that very many non-transportable animals are ultimately killed on the farm. The previous discussion with the Minister showed that it is not really clear where these animals come from. Because some farms can take good care of their animals and others can't. And especially those fat farmers, where those cattle go when they're milked out and a little cleaned up for slaughter, the problem lies. They did not appear to be sufficient in the eyes of the Minister and NVWA. That motion therefore calls for a proper examination of where these animals come from. So you can also take targeted measures and visit these farmers for a good conversation why they don't take better care of their animals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-17.u20	Thank you. I'll take a look at Mrs. Lodders. I think you said, in the event of interruption, that you do not need to speak. Fine. This brings us to the end of the Chamber's input. The Minister can answer directly. That is also very nice; that saves time. I shall then give the floor to the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality and give her judgment on the four motions tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-17.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the motion in part No. 132 the request for the slaughter of animals to be stopped until proper monitoring is carried out. With the 2Solve research, we have looked closely at where the shortcomings lie. We have also obtained information from other reports. We know how to do a number of things better there; that is what we are doing now. The NVWA supervises. The way in which, of course, differs from slaughter to slaughter. At the medium or large abattoirs there is now permanent supervision. I said that we also go to camera surveillance at the smaller abattoirs, so that we also have a better view of what is happening there. As a result of 2Solve I also indicated exactly what further steps are being taken. In the short term, I will let you know what the state of play is. But that's no reason to stop the slaughter, so I advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 133 on animal welfare teams. We have talked about it many times, including Mr Graus, whom I wish to see improved. I understand he's sick. I already had an exchange of views with your Chamber during the AO on 15 October on what an effective design of the teams at NVWA is. It is precisely so important to ensure uniformity in these teams. Of course, that is also one of the points in the 2Solve study. I also said that the knowledge of the animal welfare teams is so much needed to raise enforcement to a higher level, precisely because they have so much knowledge and because they work so well. I would like to give the NVWA the opportunity, in consultation with the works council of the NVWA and those directly involved, to learn from the insights that will follow from the rethinking, to see what is the most effective and sustainable way to bring that enforcement to a higher level in animal welfare. This motion doesn't actually give me that space and that's why I have to discourage her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-17.u22	If it were just "learning," there would be something to say for it. But we have learned from the research that there are people in the NVWA who have to supervise but who literally say: I have never maintained and I am not going to. You can't solve that collegially, can you? Then it's management's move to do something else with the people who just don't want to do anything else? So I understand that the Minister says, "I want to give the NVWA the room." However, in order to preserve that animal welfare team for the work they are very good at, we must prevent them from being disposed of in structures where they should not end up; we must not be faced with colleagues who do not really want to. I'd like to urge the Minister to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-17.u23	Let me stress that I agree with Mrs Ouwehand that it is not up to colleagues to tell other colleagues how to do their job if they are not in a relationship with each other. That's what management is for. That's also something that comes out of 2Solve's report. I also have the conversation with the NVWA about how we should ensure that, because I agree that you do not solve that by shifting people to another place. No, this is precisely about increasing the overall level of animal welfare, with the knowledge that is present. Again, I really think it is up to the NVWA to decide what is the best method for this. They also do this in consultation with, for example, the works council and those involved. I'd really like to leave that space to the NVWA. However, it is not a question of the people in the animal welfare teams going to have to lecture other people. It really isn't. If that's necessary, you do it in a management structure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-17.u24	Finally. Another signal that has been confirmed by the research is that there is also a lot of unrest among employees and little confidence in the leadership. That's what we talked about in the AO. So I'm a little hesitant. In a normal situation you would follow the minister: you have to give the NVWA the room for that. But there is a culture of fear and people are afraid that the work they have fought hard for will simply disappear. I think it is up to us to make sure that that fear disappears from people and to hit a few picket posts here and say: this and at least that is not going to happen. Does the Minister understand that point, the concerns of those employees?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-17.u25	If there is a culture of fear, that is something that needs to be solved in that organisation. We cannot allow that to happen in this Chamber. In fact, I really think that's something you should do in an organization yourself. We also really have a lot of research in which we have gotten people's experiences and insights upstairs. During the AO I told them that I spoke to employees myself. We are, of course, also rethinking the whole process. The works council is closely involved. So I think it is really important that we also look closely at what culture is in the organisation and how it is handled, but it really is too far to go about doing something here as a Chamber to limit the culture of fear, if there is one. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to Mr Moorlag's motion on item No. 134. Mr Moorlag also pointed out during the AO that it was important to also look at the level of supervisory and enforcement pressure. He said that independent experts should be involved. So I'm working on the NVWA's rethinking. It is true that we have also appointed an advisory board. Those are real externals. These are people from outside the organisation with a specific expertise, who can look at the organisation with a kind of fresh perspective. In addition, I have conducted an investigation, which is an external investigation, not even from the organisation, about the tasks of the NVWA in relation to the resources we have reserved for the NVWA. It also looks at the level of supervisory and enforcement pressure. The Advisory Board shall take into account the results of that external examination of the tasks and resources in its advice on the follow-up approach. I believe that the involvement of these external experts is already well secured. Around the end of February, I will send the Chamber a final report on this rethink. I think that would be the time to include what the motion requires. I would therefore like to ask whether this motion can be held until we send the report on rethinking and the independent investigations to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-17.u26	The actions which the Minister now appoints focus in particular on the level of organisation. I am also focusing on the system level, so on our legislation. For example, we have legislation to monitor and enforce the use of pesticides. Then it appears that the head of North Holland has shown that there are incidents and that in fact there can only be supervision and enforcement if there is a red tape. I have asked a whole battery of questions about the problems of inshore fishing and the signals from the Public Prosecutor's Office. But I'd like to honor the Minister's request to hold the motion. My question to the Minister is whether she also wants to talk to the judicial chain to see how the system of supervision and enforcement is experienced, because from that angle there is, to my taste, very well-founded criticism. I'm optimistic. Criticism is free advice. My advice to the Minister is therefore to take this criticism to heart and to consider it as free advice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-17.u27	I'll take it as free advice. I will also look at the tasks and resources. If that does not happen already, because the advisory board already has external expertise and it already looks from different sides and angles at the rethinking. So we look at these tasks and resources. That is actually the structural debate that Mr Moorlag is asking for. But I will pass on the request to those who are now working on it to see what the experiences in the judicial chain are and to valuable insights that come from them. Then, I think, this motion has been held.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-17.u28	At the request of Mr Moorlag, I propose his motion (33835, No. 134). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-17.u29	Then I have Mr De Groot's motion. There is also Mr Futselaar's motion. I don't have it here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-17.u30	Maybe he's got it by himself. Yes. For the sake of time, I will allow him to hand you the motion himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-17.u31	That motion is a little along the lines of what I have just discussed with Mr Moorlag. It asks "to appoint an external independent party to examine what actions or financial resources are needed to equip the NVWA sufficiently for its tasks." We are now conducting this external investigation into the tasks and resources of the NVWA. I already announced after 2Solve that we really need to see how they stand in relation to each other. So I'm actually already implementing this motion. With that, I could also give her "judge chamber." The committee's already working on it. I can't make it so much different than I'm not gonna put another committee next to it if we do it already. We're looking at exactly that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-17.u32	Here's what I'll do. I'm gonna keep the motion on and I'm gonna see what the result is. By then, I will consider whether I think it is necessary for an external party to look at it. We're gonna go on for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-17.u33	At the request of Mr Futselaar, I propose his motion (35300-XIV, No. 25). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-17.u34	Finally, Mr De Groot's motion for a resolution on item No. 135. It already anticipates the results of the evaluation that I am currently carrying out. I said I'd inform the Chamber about this after the turn of the year. This evaluation also looks at whether there are farms that regularly offer animals to the MDU. This does not have to be an expression of carelessness. We just want to know what exactly are the reasons behind that. That is exactly what we are looking at in the evaluation. And the point that there may be a lack of care for animals offered to the mobile killing unit is already in the evaluation. This motion is in fact superfluous. So I'd like to dissuade her, too. But yeah, we're doing it. It's always a bit of a question if you're gonna dissuade something you're already doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-17.u35	I'll hold the motion. But the question is also whether extra attention can then be paid in the evaluation to the possible additional recording of where, at which companies this MDU, that mobile killing unit, is used. That would be really nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-17.u36	We're already checking to see if there are any farms that regularly offer animals to that mobile killing unit. Then you'll know about the companies you're talking about. So that's where we're actually doing it. Anyway, the motion is being held, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-17.u37	At the request of Mr De Groot, I propose his motion (33835, No. 135). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-17.u38	This brings us to the end of this VAO NVWA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-05-tweedekamer-17.u39	We are going to vote on Tuesday 10 December on the remaining two motions.
