ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-3.u1	I see that the Secretary of State for Justice and Security is now present. Welcome, too. I am now going to Mr Van Ojik on behalf of GroenLinks for his questions on the disappearance of Vietnamese children from shelter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-3.u2	Thank you, Mr President. 60 Vietnamese children, say two full school classes have disappeared from the sheltered asylum shelter. I'll say it again: the sheltered asylum shelter. "Departure with unknown destination" is what the Secretary of State calls it. There are strong indications that this unknown destination is a nail studio, prostitution or any other form of exploitation by human smugglers, according to a broadcast of the radio program Argos this weekend. My first question to the Secretary of State is whether he can confirm that. What does he know about that? Is the message from Argos correct? We know Vietnamese children are at the top of the list of human trafficking. This is evident not only from foreign investigations, but also in the Netherlands there are indications. As early as 2012, Bureau Beke published a report on Vietnamese in hemp cultivation on behalf of the Council of Police Chiefs. News reports indicate that Vietnamese are regularly suspected of trafficking in human beings. If you look at the question of how the children escape from the shelter, it appears that there are sufficient signals of human trafficking. Children often know exactly where they are and how to escape. I ask the Secretary of State a number of questions about this. My first question is: how can children still disappear from shelter, despite the fact that the Secretary of State said in 2017 to take measures to improve shelter protection? Two. What is the reaction of the Secretary of State to the criticism of the National Rapporteur that the Secretary of State should take a more active role in protecting these children? My third question: is the Secretary of State prepared to launch a wide-ranging independent investigation, as has been advocated by several colleagues from this Chamber this weekend, into the disappearance of Vietnamese children from shelter? Finally, Mr President. I expect the Secretary of State to begin this investigation. Is he prepared, if the investigation gives rise to that, to instruct the Public Prosecutor's Office to prosecute smugglers and allow children to return to a safe situation as much as possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-3.u3	I shall now give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to Mr Van Ojik for his questions. Like Mr Van Ojik and other Members of Parliament, I have listened carefully to the messages this weekend, although they are not new. I've informed the Chamber about it a number of times before. So I can confirm the messages. Yes, I have previously provided the Chamber with figures on how many Vietnamese minors in particular have left the shelter and regular shelter with unknown destination in recent years. A total of about 80 people were affected, including 40 from the shelter. There was a peak of 31 people in 2016. There were indications that there was an organization behind it. That was investigated by the D.A. in the Pasadena investigation. Unfortunately, this investigation has resulted in too few detection indications for trafficking in human beings. The study also showed that a number of stakeholders were of age, but that does not make it any less serious. With this in mind, an investigation was then carried out by the Marechaussee to see if there were any traces of human trafficking, but there were, in the end, too few detection indications. Nevertheless, there is cause for concern. I'm willing to have it investigated further. Fortunately, the number of Vietnamese minors who have disappeared from the shelter has decreased considerably, but every signal we have to take seriously. First of all, I would like to ask the Expertise Centre on Trafficking in Human Beings and Trafficking in Human Beings to look at it further to see which indications are in here and which signals can be used. I will inform the Chamber this month how that EMM intends to do so and within what time span. Of course, everything that the EMM finds and lends itself to criminal prosecution will be transferred to the prosecution. There is a multidisciplinary team with all involved chain partners. How can people disappear? How do we fill that out as actively as possible? That is the dilemma I have discussed with the Chamber before. The reception of minors and even the protection of minors are not closed reception. There are other feelings about that too. We do not want children to go into detention frequently, on the contrary. This is without prejudice to the fact that no matter how much care, supervision and guarantees you offer, there is always a possibility of leaving the shelter. This is also seen in the regular reception and also in the broad group of amvs, especially in the view of the eighteenth anniversary. How do we fill that out as actively as possible? By acting on every signal with all involved chain partners, such as COA and Nidos. If appropriate, children will be included in the shelter. In any case, there is much more supervision and there are also resistance training courses. This applies in particular to the group of underage Vietnamese foreigners. There has been a period when they were no longer standard in the shelter, but in recent indications of the past six months, this standard is again being applied.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-3.u5	Thanks to the Secretary of State. I do think it is very good that he wants to have research done to see how we can prevent this in the future and to see exactly what has happened. That's actually the first thing we want to know. It is also very good that the Secretary of State indicates the urgency of this by saying that he not only wants to approach the centre of expertise this month, but also wants to launch the research. We are, of course, looking forward to the results of that study. I understand that the Secretary of State says that the shelter is not detention and that this does not mean that people, in this case children, are locked up. I also understand the dilemma behind it. I think we should agree on the following. I would ask the Secretary of State to go into that further. The children are entrusted, to say the least, to the care of the government. You want and must guarantee that protection. In all cases, it is unacceptable if there is strong evidence alone that children disappear and, for example, end up in prostitution. I remember the Secretary of State I thought in 2017 I already took a number of measures to give that protection more hands and feet so to speak. In my second term, I would like to ask him to perhaps reflect on the effectiveness of the measures he took at the time and on the extent to which he may wish to take further measures to effectively implement the protection he is responsible for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-3.u6	That's right. By the way, the 2017 measures have been taken by my predecessor. We watch it all the time. They were then the result of an inspection report from 2015, I believe. All these recommendations have been followed. Depending on what we're seeing right now, I'm willing to take a closer look at that. The dilemma between on the one hand a door that is open and on the other hand offers as much protection as possible in the form of additional surveillance and supervision I cannot remove. There must also be a multidisciplinary risk analysis with all the partners involved to see how we can arm the children as much as possible against falling into the wrong hands. I am prepared to look at this again in the light of the measures taken in 2017 and to inform the Court of Justice about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-3.u7	Here too, thanks to the Secretary of State. I do think it is a good thing that, if he does order an investigation, he should also have another look at the measures taken in 2017 and the extent to which those measures may need to be supplemented or modified in order to prevent this, which we all do not want, from happening again in the future. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-3.u8	Thank you, Mr. Van Ojik. Then I will go to Mr Jasper van Dijk on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-3.u9	Mr. Chairman. It is striking that the Secretary of State said until last weekend that there was no need for research. After a broadcast of Argos on the radio, the Secretary of State is now over. He's saying, "Yes, I'm gonna check it out anyway." Those signals about human trafficking were, of course, long overdue. It's a profit that the Secretary of State is going to investigate now. I would like to ask him what he is going to do to prevent new abductions or new forms of trafficking in human beings. Is he going to do that by sharpening police surveillance or observation? Because police and Marechaussee both indicate that they need more capacity to protect these children.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-3.u10	Firstly, this subject has my constant concern. So I respond not only to radio broadcasts but also to information we receive, especially since the Netherlands has recently been a "driver" in English, so that will be a kind of captain of the European EMPACT project against trafficking in human beings. That is a cooperation between EUROPOL and all the Member States. My consultation with those involved shows that at some point we will be given new indications. We have taken a number of measures for the protection of everyone in particular in the shelter, although minors are also disappearing from the ordinary shelter, the Nidos shelter. But the dilemma remains that the door is not locked for 24 hours or that there is no 24-hour surveillance. The best thing we can do is take every signal seriously, make young people aware of all the risks and get extra attention, extra monitoring and extra surveillance, but I cannot guarantee 100% that with all that, no one will ever disappear. Unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-3.u11	It is indeed very worrying that underage Vietnamese children disappear. We also asked questions about this to the Secretary of State a while ago. They've been answered, too. One of the responses concerned a revision of the COA protocols. At that time, the Minister promised that these protocols would be updated and that he would look into them. Where are we now? What's going on with the actualization?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-3.u12	Those protocols have been revised. The aim is to carry out a multidisciplinary risk analysis of young people immediately upon entry, involving all parties involved: COA, Nidos, the health care institutions and, where appropriate, the EMM and the IND. This is another means of determining what kind of aid a young person ultimately needs, what kind of care is needed, what kind of follow-up care is appropriate if necessary, and whether he or she needs additional protection and guidance. All this has now been anchored within the normal working method of the COA. But if the forthcoming analysis of the EMM gives rise to that, I will look again at whether that is sufficient.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-3.u13	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his commitment to allow the Centre of Expertise to investigate this further, because the first step is to acknowledge that there is a problem. Research showed that we didn't have any signals. When I hear the radio broadcast of Argos and their investigations, I hear as if there were signals from France and from the police unit Limburg that there is trafficking in human beings. Of course, the Mafia is sophisticated. It stays under the radar. Every mob has its own M.O. Does the Secretary of State really think it is important to use this at international level?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-3.u14	Yes, of course, for all the reasons mentioned by Mrs Kuik, namely that it is worrying and there are sophisticated structures behind it. We are also actively participating in this European project against trafficking in human beings, which we are now the leader of, precisely in order to get to the source of signals more quickly and to encourage international cooperation. But the frustrating thing is that, no matter how much research we put on it, we will always find cases where there are not enough detection indications in the end. But every signal we have that can lead to detection and prosecution is one that we must use. That's what I'm committed to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-3.u15	It's nice to have the Secretary of State pick this up. I have already said it this weekend: the Dutch asylum shelter is, of course, not intended for human traffickers or smuggling of human beings, but for people who have fled from war and violence. Many people have also said to me this weekend: how is it that these Vietnamese people are here, because there is no war in Vietnam; how does that happen? Behind what's going on here is probably a lot of illegal stuff. Of course, we have to protect those young people in that situation, but can we, on the basis of these young people, also do detectives? Think about their phone contacts and everything they do inside the shelter. That's a possible indication. Then we can roll up the network, because that's what we want in the end.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-3.u16	Where we encounter these kinds of signals, they are used and actively sought. Unfortunately, the other side is, so to speak, sometimes sophisticated and uses multiple phones, so also a hidden phone somewhere. But everything we come across is used for that. It begins, of course, with the fact that sometimes it concerns people who ultimately feel that there is no right to asylum. Nevertheless, Mrs Becker also knows the procedures. So yes, if one applies, we will have to settle the procedure before we can say whether there is a real right to protection or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-3.u17	It is, of course, a very serious problem. Appreciate the State Secretary's commitment and commitment to investigate this. But it is also, to a large extent, a question of money. Is the Secretary of State prepared to provide additional resources for this kind of investigation, for the benefit of detectives? And if this cannot be done on its own budget, is the Secretary of State prepared to ask for support from adjacent ministries, so that there will be funds available for it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-3.u18	I would almost say: I wish we could do this with more money right away. The biggest problem we encounter in trafficking in human beings is the fact that very often we find too few traces, too few detection indications. It's not so much a matter of capacity. It pinched a few years ago, but the capacity is back in order; I told the Chamber before. Unfortunately, too often you experience that people don't see themselves as victims, for example because they come from an environment where they were so poor that they think they deserve more here than at home, even though they are exploited, or come from cultures or are in spheres where there's a lot of hesitation to see themselves as victims, let alone to engage in conversation with detectives to get the evil genii behind it. There's a lot more to it than that. So it is much more a matter of guidance and making people feel free to tell what happened to them than that it would be just a money issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-3.u19	For years, children have disappeared, dozens of children entrusted to our care. As a government, we have to take care of their safety. Child prostitution, child pornography... Then I hear the minister on a radio broadcast saying, "I'm going to investigate." How would the Minister have responded if they were dozens of Dutch children? Was it "I'm gonna take a look," "chain suit," "a little together" and "do an investigation," or would he say "I'm gonna intervene; I'm gonna intervene now and I'm gonna use resources; I'm gonna make sure it doesn't happen anymore," instead of soft words like "I'm willing to talk"? This is what people in society want to hear. These are children of ours, who are under our responsibility. We expect a secretary of state, a minister, a cabinet to intervene urgently.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-3.u20	Here a few things are brought together that, as far as I'm concerned, don't belong together. Mr Öztürk is right, all children deserve our concern. At the same time, however, we can see that it is also a group that sometimes tries, despite the fact that one cannot obtain a residence permit, to build another life. The simple fact that one has come here as a migrant and is applying for asylum does indeed affect this case and in that sense it differs from what it would have been if it were children from the Netherlands. But as I said before, we take seriously every signal that's there. By the way, without being able to guarantee 100% that it will never happen again. Today it is specifically about underage Vietnamese strangers. I am expanding this: what indications do we have at all for trafficking in human beings? But I do not ignore the fact that in any case there is a large group of underage foreigners who have been brought to trial and who disappear from the shelter shortly before the 18th birthday, for the simple reason that they know that once they are of age, there are many more possibilities that they will actually be deported to the country of origin. In this way they seek their refuge in neighbouring countries or with family or friends, or one day they make their own way back. That too is one of the consequences of the asylum system. Because all this is parallel, we have to face every problem, but there is no point in considering one problem more important than the other, or dealing with it in this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-3.u21	Mr Öztürk? No. Mr Van Ojik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-3.u22	I was just saying it's good to have another investigation. I also understand all the dilemmas and problems, but perhaps the following. We have a National Rapporteur on Human Trafficking. It's on top of it. As a result of the announcement this weekend, it comes to the following conclusion: "I think that the government should intervene much more actively than is the case at present." Would the Secretary of State care to respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-3.u23	This is not only by providing the current shelter, not only by constantly looking at what is going on, but also by seeing if there is anything else we can do, but for that I need that research, that analysis, which I have just announced. But I'm open in there. I would also like to see any wrongdoing we can fight. In this sense, I also feel that the national rapporteur and I are pulling the strings on the same side and that we are also facing the dilemmas. I know that from my contacts with him. I therefore consider it to be an incentive. I'm happy to take this on board.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-3.u24	This is, of course, a difficult matter. These ladies are vulnerable, too. Some of them, of course, go along voluntarily, hoping to get a better perspective, and don't know where they come from. We could, of course, remedy that by speeding up the procedure for these ladies, because I understand that these girls are vulnerable to it pending the procedure. We can't lock them up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-3.u25	It's not about ladies, is it? Kids, I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-3.u26	Yeah, young ladies, underage Vietnamese ladies, girls.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-3.u27	And boys.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-3.u28	But the question to the Secretary of State is: could we win another battle there? Because if it becomes clear soon whether they can stay here, they will be less susceptible to these smugglers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-3.u29	Honestly, I don't know if that's exactly where the problem is. The moment you shorten a procedure for one, you renew it for another. The essence of the problem is that people in this group often realise that there is no right to stay in the Netherlands. But the moment you find that out, they're not out of care, because they're underage. So there is always that risk, both before and after the decision. This is also what the protection of shelters is aimed at.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-02-tweedekamer-3.u30	Thank you.
