ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-2.u1	The next item is the oral questions. We shall begin with Mr Fritsma's questions on behalf of the PVV Group to the Secretary of State for Justice and Security, whom I would also like to welcome in Box K, on the report that the CDA and D66 want a more flexible child pardon. I call Mr Fritsma on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-2.u2	Thank you. Mr. Chairman. Last weekend we saw the CDA take revenge on the VVD because of the climate talk of that party. The result is a further screw-up of foreign policy. The kids' pardon is now being stepped on. The children's pardon is an arrangement that rewards illegality. The children's pardon is a scheme that rewards the rejection of their legal obligation to leave by rejected asylum seekers. A scheme that rewards the training of return to the country of origin, for example by constantly starting up new residence procedures. The effect of these rewards is, of course, that rejected asylum seekers' families no longer leave the Netherlands. For example, of the thousands of foreigners who did not qualify for the children's pardon, only 8% of them were found to leave our country. Only 8%! Almost everyone stays here, waiting for weak politicians to come up with residence permits. In the meantime, foreigners' lawyers, action groups and left-wing parties are increasing the pressure to do so. Now that the CDA has joined all these drammers, there is unfortunately a Chamber majority over the market for a wider children's pardon. In this situation, of course, no rejected asylum seekers' families leave the Netherlands. Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State must restore this chaos very quickly. The PVV has been demanding for years that the children's pardon scheme should cease. We will continue to do so, but for now I want the firm guarantee from the cabinet that at least there will be no extension of this arrangement. My only question is therefore: can you guarantee 100% that the children's pardon will not be extended?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-2.u3	Then I will give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-2.u4	Mr. Chairman. Despite that one question, I would like to briefly point out where we stand. The problem of long-term foreigners, including families with children who do not have legal residence, has been going on for many years. The 8% Mr Fritsma points out is part of this. It is precisely for this reason that I, from the cabinet, last autumn, set up the committee on long-term resident foreigners, the Van Zwol committee, whose task is to conduct an independent investigation into all aspects that contribute to the long-term residence of people, even though they know that there is no right of residence, with particular attention being paid to families with children, and to make recommendations on the basis of that research. I understood Saturday's newspaper article in such a way that it makes a number of suggestions which should be included in the study by the Van Zwol Committee. That is also possible, even if only because I gave the committee a very broad mandate, namely to investigate all aspects relating to this problem. That includes every suggestion made in it. But as far as I am concerned, I am currently awaiting what the committee is doing on the basis of its own independent investigation and in the broadest possible range of recommendations. From that point on, I will see whether these recommendations, whether as a package or not, help to contain this problem in a structural way. That's the first time I've made a judgment about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-2.u5	This is what I was afraid of. The Secretary of State is now hiding behind an investigation. What kind of weakness is that? There's got to be some clarity. I repeat my question one more time, because with these kinds of answers we are not getting anywhere. Then no more rejected asylum seekers' families leave the Netherlands and it is a celebration of foreign lawyers. The Secretary of State must now clarify to ensure that these problems do not get worse, so let me repeat my question: can you guarantee 100% that there will be no extension of the child's pardon? It is not relevant at all whether there is one committee of inquiry or 1 000. There must be that clarity now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-2.u6	Let me clarify one misunderstanding, because I often hear that there is now a child pardon arrangement. There was in 2013. Mr Fritsma asks if I am going to broaden it. There is a residual regulation for a few people and I think it belongs to all aspects that the Van Zwol Committee will examine. Once again, I think that we, the Chamber and society, will benefit if we analyse and investigate this problem, which has been going on for many years, in full terms, when we look at what is involved and what it does with people's behaviour and when we come up with appropriate recommendations and measures. That's the route I'm on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-2.u7	This bothers me greatly, because last year this Secretary of State promised that there would be no extension of this children's pardon scheme. He said we're not gonna do it. And: it is not wise. Now it's turning. Now he's hiding behind a commission. That is cowardly and that is weak and precisely because of this kind of spineless politicians, the Dutch asylum policy is completely bankrupt and no more rejected asylum seekers' families leave the Netherlands. That's how we remember this secretary of state, that's how we know the cabinet and that's how we know the VVD. It's a disgrace.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-2.u8	No. If there is to be an opinion in due course, we will first go into the cabinet and, I assume, also into the Chamber roads. On that basis, we will decide what we will or will not do with that opinion. So it is all premature what Mr Fritsma says.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-2.u9	Mr. Chairman. As a SP, we stand for a realistic asylum policy. If you're rejected, you have to leave, and if you're allowed to stay, you can stay. But here we are talking about a special group: children who have lived here for more than five years and who have often been born here. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that he can do research for as long as he wants, but that it would be human if he didn't allow children to be evicted as long as he's doing that research?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-2.u10	I have had this part of the debate with Mr Van Dijk before, even in the autumn. At the same time, I indicated that, although the Van Zwol Committee is going to examine this in full, I am not doing anything other than implementing the existing policy, which has also been decided that people will be forced to return. In addition, you can always assume that not only myself, but certainly also the employees of DT&V and IND are very careful in doing so. That is the policy as it is and because I do not want to anticipate an opinion that has yet to come, that is the policy framework that I am currently using.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-2.u11	The squabbling within the coalition is entirely up to you. It looks like shit and it's a mess, but the great shame is that that happens over the heads of children. They have all heard the news of Saturday: a turn has been made by the CDA. In that respect, it would be nice if the CDA would also provide us with clarity. It is unacceptable if you leave these families, these children, these people involved, in uncertainty for months to come and continue with expulsions. So my appeal to the government is: get a child pardon as soon as possible that will work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-2.u12	I understood that call, but I just indicated how I deal with the existing policy from the cabinet. By the way, we always try to communicate the decisions to those concerned as carefully as possible, but in the knowledge that we are by definition talking about an asylum and admission system in which applications from people are always granted and, as a counter-imposition, people are always, even in the future, rejected for stay in the Netherlands. That will be of all times and will remain.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-2.u13	Government party CDA indicated last Saturday that they are willing to talk about another children's pardon and thus his expectations are raised towards many children here in the Netherlands. I have one very simple question for the Secretary of State: is he prepared not to do evictions until this Chamber has been able to meet on this subject and have been able to make a Chamber decision?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-2.u14	I have understood the call in such a way on Saturday that is even literally stated in the article that is being said: we are making a number of suggestions which we believe the Van Zwol committee should look at as well. I instructed the Van Zwol committee to do a. independent research, b. broad research and c. to report before 15 June. I am not going to violate that independence by saying "it has to be much faster" or whatever. I have made it clear from the outset that I do not have a different policy framework as long as that committee is working. That is why I am implementing the policy as it is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-2.u15	This is about the relationship between the Chamber and the government. I ask you here from the Chamber not to take irreversible steps, not to deport children, as happened yesterday, until this Chamber has been able to rule on the desirable policy. Of the thought alone that in a few weeks' time the policy may be different and we have a wider children's pardon while in the meantime children who could claim it are being deported, we should all say: we do not accept that. That is why the question is again. Not the question of whether we can wait until the Van Zwol committee arrives, but until this Chamber has been able to give a ruling. As far as I'm concerned, that's okay tonight. But if it's the day after tomorrow, you'll have to wait until the day after tomorrow. If it's still two weeks before we can make a ruling on this, two weeks. I want the Secretary of State to promise not to take irreversible steps, not to deport children until this Chamber has been able to give a ruling.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-2.u16	I have just indicated that I understood the call in the interview differently, as in the autumn, when the same question was asked from the Chamber. At the time I said: I am just dealing with the policy as it is. This means that, as part of this, we regularly prevent people, including families with children, from being forced to return to the country of origin. I would be in favour of sticking to that policy, even if it is because otherwise the signal is that all of these people will be able to stay in the Netherlands. I don't think that's ever gonna be the truth. This will give hope to other people, who are also unjust.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-2.u17	If the Secretary of State has read our article correctly, he has also seen that we are very concerned about the case law and the developments in it. For example, we noted that the European Court of Justice gave a ruling on 19 July and thus gave an interpretation of the Return Directive 2008/115. Can I ask the Secretary of State today to make an analysis of that and report to the Chamber on how he looks at it? It has been an important statement and we would like to know how the cabinet indicates it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-2.u18	Thank you for the clarification of the date, which was not included in the newspaper; I was already curious as to what statement it was going to make. I think I know what the verdict is about, but I can promise Mrs Van Toorenburg that I will come to the Chamber with that more detailed analysis.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-2.u19	Mrs. Chicken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-2.u20	Mr President, I think it is important for Mr Voordewind to go first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-2.u21	How do you know that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-2.u22	Well, I like that. My request to Mr Voordewind is: go for me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-2.u23	Well! Mrs Kuik has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-2.u24	A bickering coalition, a coalition in crisis. It would be almost politically nice if it were not on such an important subject, namely vulnerable children who are now in great uncertainty, who do not know where they are today. Major statements have been made by the CDA, D66 and the Christian Union. They say: suspend the expulsions, we see that these children are in trouble and we want a solution. My question to the Secretary of State is therefore very simple: is he prepared to respond to this call? Is the investigation also going to lead to a possible extension of the children's pardon? Until then, especially until there is a ruling in the Chamber, I ask him to suspend the expulsions. I think suspension is extremely important. You can't just say big words. That must also be expressed in action because it is about such vulnerable children.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-2.u25	Of course, I do not disagree with the latter. But Mrs. Kuik connects this to the investigation, which is still a few months away. It also asks me whether that investigation will lead to new measures which are paraphrasing. That's just one step too far. That is precisely why we have put that committee to work, precisely to make the full analysis and to do the full investigation into what has happened in the last ten years, which makes people stay here longer, which means that the obligation to leave is not followed and what influence and what behaviour is behind it. On that basis, the committee will come forward with recommendations. I am prepared to give any question and any suggestions that are made. But I think it is wise that the committee should then be in a position of independence to draw conclusions from this. So I can't answer that part of the question. Then I insist that until that advice is given, let me take a look at the policy that is now in place and only then can I take stock of whether it would lead to different policies and other measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-2.u26	It is clear that the Christian Union welcomes the changing position of the CDA. This brings us to a new reality here in the Chamber when it comes to the children's pardon, which the Christian Union has been advocating for years. By the way, honor who deserves credit: we did it together with the Labour Party. I am also pleased with the reaction of this Secretary of State, who says: if there are new insights and new suggestions, I would love to pass them on to the Van Zwol committee, which is looking at them. Thank you for that. I would ask the Secretary of State what he thinks of this new reality for the imminent expulsions. What's the effect of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-2.u27	There is talk of a new reality, but there is a reality of many years in which this problem arises. This has led us to look at this problem in full depth in the autumn. That's my reality. I am waiting for the committee to give its opinion: 15 June at the latest. For me, that is the reality in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-2.u28	That's probably another five to six months. My question was about the interim period. May I inform the Secretary of State that there are imminent expulsions that could be covered by a new arrangement? Can I then ask the Secretary of State for a pass on the spot, to be wary of the expulsions of those families which might now be covered by this new regulation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-2.u29	It's complicated. I have just indicated that I am doing it with the policy as it is, in which there is always utmost care. There is also an 'if' in Mr Voordewind's question, namely 'if there is a new policy in the future'. But I don't know what that's gonna look like. That makes such a review very complicated. That is why, as I said to the Chamber in the autumn, there is currently the policy framework as it has been for a number of years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-2.u30	Looking back on the past few weeks, we have indeed to note that there have been weeks in which the coalition has managed better to radiate a certain unity and unity, but that aside. The Secretary of State states that the current policy is to be implemented. This includes discretionary powers. My question to the Secretary of State is to what extent it still works within his current policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-2.u31	The discretionary power is part of the current policy. Last year I gave a detailed account of how it works on two occasions in the Chamber. It primarily raises the question of whether, except for everything that has already been tested in an asylum procedure, there are other very individual poignant circumstances that require acceptance. The discretionary power does not apply to everyone by its very nature either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-2.u32	Mr Groothuizen, on behalf of D66. You were before.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-2.u33	I don't think so, Mr. Chairman, but thank you very much. I would like to apologize to my colleague if he didn't. You know that D66 has been in favour of a more generous child's pardon for years. An important element of this is that we should apply the so-called 'co-operative criterion' much more balancedly. But one element that I have missed a little bit in the debate is how to prevent such poignant cases in the future. I am therefore looking with some concern at the reports on rising waiting times at the IND and lengthy procedures. Then I wonder: aren't we already in the process of creating a problem for the future? My question to the Secretary of State is: what can he do, besides the Van Zwol committee, to prevent people from sitting here for a very long time, that the procedures take a long time and that people are waiting a long time for these procedures to begin?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-2.u34	That is a subject that affects me very much and I do think that we need to change our mind. That is what we started last year; that is what I explained to your Chamber. For example, we have opened up more vacancies at the IND, precisely for this reason. It is also not the case that the IND would cause people to stay here for five years or longer, because procedures are not that long. The good news is that the IND also manages to fill the vacancies. That is not every organization given in this tight labour market. So people have been recruited and are currently being trained internally. This will also reduce the waiting times in the course of this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-2.u35	The Animal Party is also strongly in favour of an immediate ban, because current policies simply do not take into account the interests of children, whereas these interests should be at the forefront. It is not even in line with the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. My question is: what is the Dutch signature worth under this treaty if it only applies to children with a Dutch passport in their hands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-2.u36	It is worth a great deal, and we have often had this debate here in the Chamber, because children's rights are taken into account and guaranteed in many parts of the asylum procedure, as well as in reception. On the other hand, it is not the case that the rights of the child are always the only and decisive factor in determining whether people are allowed to stay here or not. Nor has it been expressed in the International Convention on the Rights of the Child. They are expressed as an important consideration, but not as the sole or main consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-2.u37	What I've always hated is raising false expectations in children. That's what happened last weekend. I hear the coalition parties disagree and disagree. We have to wait for an investigation on June 15th. There's still a lot of work to be done. So we'll be far after the summer before there's a solution. That is an extremely sad conclusion. I think it's a conclusion the Secretary of State shares with me. Big words are spoken, but nothing happens in the meantime. We'll ask for an address in the Chamber, but I'm afraid with great fear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-2.u38	A total of 564.829 people came net to the Netherlands under the VVD-kabinets of recent years. So that's minus the people who left; it's really what came with it. Last year alone, 104,000 people were allowed to settle in the Netherlands by this government. How many people does the VVD plan to bring to the Netherlands? When will it be enough? How much immigration do you want to call on about the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-2.u39	I do not mention a number, because it is a matter for me whether these people come here lawfully, whether they comply with the rules to legally settle in the Netherlands or not. I recognize all the figures mentioned by Mr Baudet, but one thing I would like to say is that they are not all asylum seekers, quite the contrary. They're not all refugees by any means. There are hundreds of thousands of people who come here for many other reasons: because they come to work here for a few years and then maybe go back, because they come here as an acquaintance, because they come here from other countries of Europe for a while, because they come here to study or because they have fallen in love with someone here in the Netherlands. These are all legitimate reasons for gaining access to the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-2.u40	Mr Harbers refuses to answer my question. Isn't there really a maximum of people in your eyes who can come here? The Netherlands is a very small country. There are a lot of people living there. When is it gonna be enough? There's a population explosion going on in Africa and the Middle East. A lot of these people want to go to Europe. Are you then prepared to finally say no, to say at last once: until here and no further?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-2.u41	The Netherlands is open to all those who meet the criteria I have just mentioned and those who are actually looking for protection from war, violence or personal persecution. The group that Mr Baudet is now quoting in his words: many people in Africa who are looking for a better life are, as a rule, not meeting the requirements for legal residence in the Netherlands. That's why they won't get it. I therefore do not share Mr Baudet's fear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-2.u42	The Secretary of State spoke a number of times about the current rules. Actually, as far as I'm concerned, that's deception. In this case, we are talking about the rules relating to the children's pardon. My question to the Secretary of State is: how many children have been granted the right to remain on the basis of this scheme in the last year?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-2.u43	I've shared those figures with your room before. There aren't many of them. That is about a dozen to a few dozen a year. This has to do with the criteria laid down in that regulation: when will you meet them and when will you not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-2.u44	At least I agree with the PVV that this is cowardly. Why is this cowardly? Because you hide behind a committee, when you see in practice that this arrangement hardly leads to children being given the opportunity to stay in distressing cases. My question to the Minister is: why...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-2.u45	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-2.u46	My question to the Secretary of State is: why are you waiting until 15 June? You're talking about independent research. You know that's not independent. That cannot be independent at all; you are the client. Why do you not have the courage to come up with a different arrangement, because in practice we see that there are poignant cases and that the criterion of cooperation is working out in such a way that virtually no one is eligible?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-2.u47	That investigation is independent. I'll always put that out here because I do. Two: the regulation, which was also decided in the Chamber here, also states that it was an arrangement after the one-off children's pardon in 2013 and that it was also intended to give people the clarity that there should be no subsequent admission, other than when you really couldn't leave the Netherlands. It therefore includes criteria which, for example, require people to participate in their departure, so that it can also be established whether this is really not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-22-tweedekamer-2.u48	Thank you.
