ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u1	I'm suspending the meeting for a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u2	I would like to welcome the Minister. The same goes, of course, for the Members of Parliament, for the people who are following this debate here in the Chamber, and certainly for the people who are following the debate in a different way. Welcome aboard.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u3	I am the first to give the floor to Mr Paternotte and he is speaking on behalf of the D66 Group. It is legislation and you have indicated your speaking time. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The debate on internationalisation is a debate that is in a very long tradition, because it is very appropriate for the Netherlands to talk about internationalisation. When Hugo de Groot released his Mare Liberum it was in Latin, at the time the lingua franca of international science. Spinoza was asked whether he could not release the Ethics in Dutch, because that was, of course, the language in which he presented his scientific work. Later on, we had the French time, in which a lot of people were worried about whether French would take over the whole of Europe. Since the Second World War there has been discussion about the so-called "Vergelsing." When you look back 20, 30 or 40 years, you already hear crying out about English. Nevertheless, we still have this debate today in our beautiful country language. Dutch is a beautiful language, but it is not a world language. So if we think that Dutch should be the language of international science, then we are doing donquixoterie. It fits our open society that interacts with the rest of the world to want to share our ideas, because our ideas, even if they are not written in Dutch, are equally Dutch ideas, whether it is the Dutch approach to peace missions, the special way in which we in the Netherlands try to prevent repeated crimes or our fantastic tradition in history and language studies, but also the solar cars that are made in Delft. Internationalisation is more than just the language in the college banks. After all, it also means that students learn to think beyond their own worldview, that you challenge researchers not only to play in the league of honor but also in the Europe League and, if possible, in the Champions League. If you bring it back to language, we think we should say yes to English where it has added value, where it is substantiated and where the conditions are in order. Of course there are limits to it. A dissertation on Joost van den Vondel's work does not need to be in English. Studying patriotic history doesn't have to be done in English either. That is why we have a positive attitude towards this bill. I'll go over three topics in my treatment. It starts with internationalization. It is then about language and finally about accessibility. Internationalisation is indispensable for students, because if you want to get to know your own culture, it can only be done in relation to other cultures by working with people from different backgrounds. If a psychologist is in a lecture hall with a Korean student from a country with totally different, unwritten norms, relationships and taboos, then he has a better study. If rights involve a South African student from a country with a legal tradition with European roots but also its own development, that gives a completely different perspective. In economics, an American student can introduce a vision from a country where the government plays a much smaller role and a very different economic vision is dominant than here in Western Europe. In addition to such intrinsic arguments, there are practical reasons to be enthusiastic about internationalisation. In the Netherlands, the UWV and ROA make lists of job shortages. We need a lot more good-looking minds to fill those vacancies that are the result of the growth of our economy and the ageing population. I do not understand why, on the one hand, we see that in the outskirts of the Netherlands where internationalisation may go faster than in places where our country is not bordering on another country, there are a lot of job vacancies and there is a lot of scepticism about internationalisation, or at least is expressed. In order for the value of internationalisation to become true, two things are important. First of all, the need for training in internationalisation to think through.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u5	A question from Mr Futselaar. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u6	I was wondering what the corners of the Netherlands are.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u7	That is for example the head of Noord-Holland, but also Groningen, Twente or Limburg. These are places where the environment is completely international. Maastricht University is of course in the Netherlands, but at 15 kilometers from Maastricht you are in Germany or Belgium, with often other languages. The university has something to do with that. I am not surprised that Maastricht University is the most international university in the Netherlands. But the same goes for Twente, where I was the other day. At the University of Twente and the Saxion University of Applied Sciences, many German students are studying, even though they are broadening it more and more to the rest of the world. Often it is also the students who will serve the labour market in Twente afterwards. So we do not need to see that as a problem. It is a very logical consequence of the fact that we have open borders in Europe and that Dutch people can work in Germany and Germans in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u8	In conclusion, Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u9	A debate on what you call 'a corner' and not 'a corner' will be held again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u10	Corner of Holland, that's one of those crazy places.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u11	Let's get to the more central point. Look, it's known that students from within the EEA in particular, in practice, we're talking mainly about Germans, because that's the vast group of people going back to their country relatively often. In fact, the percentage of people who are not staying here is rising at the moment. Doesn't Mr Paternotte see a problem, even when it comes to the funding issue underneath it, with the large quantities of German students in what I call the eastern part of the country?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u12	One of the reasons for this law is that at some point we saw that the situation arose that there was a numerus fixus in Germany and that the students then went to the Netherlands to escape that numerus fixus. As a result, some studies, in addition to Dutch students, were followed for two-thirds by German students. There remain relatively few of these in the Netherlands. Of course, you want more guidance on that and the assurance that the choice to offer that course in English also has added value. That is why I have a positive basic position on this law. So yes, I see that too, but at the same time I think we have to find out that most students ultimately earn money. The CPB has done a fantastic job: an MBO student from Europe will get us €5,000. This amounts to €17,000 for a wo student, and even more for students from outside Europe. So if you are talking about the question of financing, the internationalisation of the Dutch taxpayer, to name but a few, will ultimately produce net money.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u13	Thank you. A question from Mr Van der Molen. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u14	Mr Paternotte spoke of German students trying to avoid a German numerus fixus by studying here. I could not fully understand from Mr Paternotte's answer whether he thinks that is a good thing or not. I believe that this is also a lack of international coordination. How does Mr Paternotte look at that explicitly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u15	I am in favour of more international tuning, but I think this is one of the reasons why it is good that there is indeed a steering tool to be able to differentiate between Dutch-language and English-language tracks in terms of fixus. This also makes it possible for you to be more focused in situations like this, because we do not want to jeopardise accessibility for Dutch students. That's what we stand for. But a situation in which a two-thirds course consists of German students and the motivation is very often the German numerus fixus is a situation that is not desirable. I think it's an incident. It is also good that you see in Groningen, which is what matters in this case, that this situation is now much less. But in itself this is not a desirable situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u16	I agree with Mr Paternotte that it is not always positive. We have seen in Groningen how a city can be robbed by a huge influx and struggle with housing. If I hear Mr Paternotte now saying that he wants to steer by numbers, why did D66 vote against the motion of VVD and CDA last week calling on the Minister to set up more guidance on this student entry? 'Cause at least those two things don't fit in my head.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u17	I am not saying at all that I advocate more tools to steer on student numbers. I say that I point to an instrument that would create this law, which we are discussing today, namely that you can differentiate between Dutch and English tracks with respect to the fixus. If you needed a motion last week to get the law that was already there at the time, then I think we're going to have two things side by side.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u18	At that point, because I also notice some noise. Mr Paternotte does say that he considers more guidance and therefore more certainty for institutions to be important and that he therefore has a positive basis for this legislative proposal. There are parties that say you should do more about it. Those parties say that because institutions, education itself, indicate that they do not have sufficient instruments to deal with this great pressure from abroad. They say: we would like to have the space to make our assessment, precisely in order to ensure the capacity, the workload and the quality and not to push Dutch students away. Looking at this proposal, do you agree with me that the institutions simply have a point on these points and that we should help them even more to get their hands on instruments?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u19	In my view, this is why many institutions are quite positive about the legislative proposal we are discussing today. I recognize that. At the same time, there will be points on which I do not always agree with the institutions, for example on accessibility. I'll deal with that later. But I believe that this also applies to proposals that you are going to make here today. Not all institutions will fully agree with that. I read in the paper this morning that you said that psychologists are no use to us. You wrote in the newspaper earlier: "Why do we allow German psychology students or Chinese law students to do this? Because it doesn't do us much good." I have visited many institutions and they say: that makes the question of why students are welcome here very small. That would only be to directly serve our labour market today. We also know that in 20 years' time there will be a lot of jobs that we do not even know yet. We know that as a country, with The Hague as an international city of peace and justice, we have a great legal tradition. I can add a number of examples, such as work and organizational psychologists who work at large companies or at a forensic psychologist from Maastricht, a Chinese who now works in Dutch addiction care, or a German schedule therapist who now works in a TBs clinic in the Netherlands. Those are psychologists that we do need.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u20	Thank you. In conclusion, Mr Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u21	A long answer to the clear question: are you going to stand next to the institutions to give them more control? So the answer to that is no. You say the bill is enough. They're asking for more, but you don't want to offer any more. That's right. I mentioned psychology. That's right. I think 6,000 German psychologists in the Netherlands follow that training. There's a lot of them. They're just paying our tuition. That is what we agreed on in Europe. The rest of you pay the government. Those students go and masse back. I think that we in Europe should think about this and make arrangements to do it more fairly. Does D66 agree with us?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u22	It just doesn't make sense what Mr Wiersma says. The CPB showed that last summer. European students ultimately give us money. That's not so crazy either, because they're all people who didn't go to elementary school and high school here. They did not have child benefit and childcare allowance. They often enter the labour market here and then pay taxes. You say every time we don't need those psychologists and we have too many of them. You also often use the example of rights. This will put the whole alpha-gamma side of science away as a place we don't need international students for. Of course, there have been situations where the reason for coming here was not right. I just mentioned Groningen. I think those are incidents. I think it is good to say that this is a country that really wants to attract talent from the outside.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u23	Thank you. I see there's some questioning being looked at. Interrupts go in two. It is a bill that is planned for the whole day, but there are also long speaking time. I would therefore ask that interruptions be kept brief and concise. The same applies, of course, to the answers. I see Mr Van der Molen again. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u24	Just following on from your comment. That was my question. You're right to try to stay within the time frame. However, there must be ample opportunity for interruptions to take place, because this debate follows a very long period of preparation. But I've heard your comments and I'll stick to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u25	Thank you. I am not trying to limit the interruptions, but that means that they must be brief and concise. Mr Paternotte continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u26	Mr. Chairman. Then there are two important conditions for internationalisation to be genuinely of added value. The first is that training in internationalisation needs to be properly thought through. Putting a group of Dutch students in a lecture room with a group of international students, after which everyone will visit each other during the break and speak their own language: that should not be the intention. The examples and cases used must also be international. We need to work actively to create interaction between Dutch and international students. International students should be able to count on fair information and assistance in finding a student room. So much more is needed to make the international classroom truly a success. The Interstedelijk Studenten Overleg asked for attention on this subject, for bilingual communication from DUO, from institutions and from the municipalities. Does the Minister see an opportunity to work on this in consultation with DUO, the institutions and the municipalities, so that these international students are better informed? They also said that these introduction weeks are often separate now. There is a separate introduction week for international students. I have also often heard that they are their own communities and that they are staying in other places, so there is actually very little contact between them. No matter how open the Netherlands as a society is, we may not be the people who make sure that you have international contact when you put international students together. Whatever goes with it is the opportunity to participate fully in participation within an institution. The question to the Minister is what opportunities she sees for doing something about this. Then there is my second point. We must also actively do our best to keep those students here. I just had a disagreement with colleagues Van der Molen and Wiersma, but what I think we agree on is that if international students come here, they will be much more useful to us if they stay here than if they leave soon. They're our best ambassadors abroad. Given the shortage of people in the Netherlands, we also need them very much. From teachers to programmers, every talent counts. They often manage to hold them. That's what the CPB of the summer showed. But there's a lot more to that. From 2013 to 2016, universities, colleges, student organisations and municipalities worked together with Nuffic in the Make it in the Netherlands programme. That programme has received a positive evaluation. Colleagues Özdil and Tielen have drawn attention to this earlier. The programme is over, but the task of keeping as many students as possible after completing their studies in the Netherlands is not yet complete. How do we ensure that internationalisation really leads to quality in education? And in what way does the Minister now work on increasing the stay rate, the residence rate, of international students? Are municipalities, student organisations, universities and colleges involved in this? Mr. Chairman. I have another point. We're going to make institutional tuition the minimum for students from outside the European Economic Area. That's fine. We can imagine simply saying that the cost is the minimum, not the tax money. But it also means that many institutions will get much more than that cost. Then we think it is very important that this revenue should go to education and research, or possibly to help these kinds of students. Now there are safeguards for that in itself. It is not for nothing that students also have approval in their institution's budget. However, I would like to ask the Minister to monitor carefully that, if very high tuition fees are charged for non-EEA students, the proceeds do indeed end up in the place where they are to end up, namely in broad education and research. Mr. Chairman. I have another point about internationalisation. That's the Brexit. Science has always been international. Ideas must have a free flow, flow for the benefit of all of us. We are increasingly seeing, in the developments in the world, that countries are turning their backs on each other. Horizon is indispensable for cooperation in the European Union. The special thing is that it is one of the most popular research programs in the world. From Canada to Japan, they knock on the door in Brussels to join. But one concern is also that there are countries in Europe that say that we should no longer set up this programme on the basis of excellence, but that we should look at a kind of division between Europe, also called wideening participation. My question is what the future of this is. What does the Council's playing field look like? Could the Royal Netherlands Academy of Sciences have a role to play in getting European countries in which the ecosystem for research is still under construction and ensuring that excellence is also an advantage for them? Then the Brexit. For scientists in the UK, the Brexit is a disaster. 95% of them voted against the Brexit for a reason. 11,000 people have already left British universities. That's a fact. That's what we're dealing with. But we also see that there are countries such as France and Germany after France and Germany, we are the largest partner of the British in research programmes that are committed to bringing British researchers who want to get away to their countries. Berlin universities have adopted the University of Oxford. From Munich, they did the same thing to Cambridge. Emmanuel Macron presents his country as the best alternative to London. The question is, what do we do? There's a nice network: Dutch Academics. This was started at the Dutch embassy for Dutch researchers in the UK, some of whom might want to go back. But there are perhaps many more researchers and teachers in the UK, whether they are from England or other European countries, who think: I do not want to stay here any longer. That is one aspect. My question is what we can do for them. In addition, of course, we want to maintain these links with the United Kingdom as well as possible, because after France and Germany, the Netherlands has the most joint research programmes and perhaps relatively most of Europe at all. These are people who are working on curing diseases and people who are working on new linguistic research. There are a lot of universities in the Netherlands that have a profile that fits very well with universities in the Russell Group. Maastricht University has created a kind of virtual institution in the North Sea with the University of York, in which you with mutual appointments ensure that you have access to each other and more student exchange is possible and that there is also the possibility to apply for research money in England and vice versa. Should we not get that much more and will the Minister, together with the Association of Universities, look at how we can contribute to the creation of many more such partnerships? Otherwise, I know that Germany and France will have made a lot of universities before it goes further in the Netherlands than in Maastricht alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u27	We have very good universities in the Netherlands, but we are not in the top twenty yet. It starts with ambition. At the same time, we do see a number of institutions from England that are in it. It would be very nice to succeed in bringing these institutions closer to the Netherlands. So I like this plea, but at the same time there are more institutions outside England and the rest of the world which I would also find interesting that the Netherlands is seeking more cooperation with and even opening up its own system in the Netherlands to such institutions. Does Mr Paternotte agree with me that this would be a good idea to include?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u28	The answer is yes. I think that the Brexit is now a very topical urgency because the universities there are very much concerned about access to Europe and therefore really open to much closer cooperation than they are to date. In general, I do agree with you. There are a lot of universities in the rest of the world that have that top level and in many cases also fit very well in terms of profile. So I think this is a very nice call.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u29	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u30	Which brings me to the language section. Engelsing has been a hot topic in recent years. Here too, it is important that the choice of language is proven with added value and that it is thought through. That is why it is also right that a test should be carried out from now on and that we should also look at courses already given in English or that added value exists. If you have considered such a language choice and there is added value, it is absolutely not a problem for us, but we must protect Dutch. The Minister strengthens the maintenance obligation of colleges and universities to maintain the Dutch language skills of Dutch students. Those requirements shall be developed in a general measure of governance. We are concerned that this should not lead to subjects of Dutch or additional language tests. We receive calls from concerned training coordinators that they do not want compulsory Dutch language courses for international students to be included in curricula. It is desirable that international students, if they so wish, should have the opportunity to learn Dutch. So can the Minister outline what her intentions are now for the general measure of governance? Is it true that this is a maintenance obligation for Dutch students and not compulsory lessons for international students? Then English-speaking education. There are plenty of training courses that it is obvious that they should be English speaking, for example if the field of work is English speaking. I am thinking of hotel schools in Leeuwarden, The Hague and Amsterdam, hotel management in Breda or electrical engineering at TU Delft. Courses on which it depends on each case are of course also available, such as public administration or pedagogy. There are plenty of opportunities for situations where international students already have the opportunity to learn Dutch. I recently had a very nice conversation at Maastricht University with Canadian, Iranian and German students, half of whom now spoke quite Dutch and the other half said that this was just too big a threshold for them. Then academic English, because part of the discussion about englishing was also about the accessibility of education for Dutch students. It is sometimes warned that teachers would speak too much broken English. It has been said: broken English is the language of science. The fact is that there are quite a few students who do a full Dutch bachelor's degree, while most masters are English-speaking and they, after working alone in Dutch for a few years, suddenly have to do the most important and difficult part of their study completely in that other language. If three quarters of the master's programmes are English, you get that effect. From the point of view of accessibility, we therefore wonder whether it is not necessary for every student at least to have the opportunity to develop his English during the Bachelor's phase. Does the Minister share this vision with me? And does the Minister have any idea how many universities and colleges have such an offer at the moment? Mr. Chairman. Then the final part: accessibility. This, of course, particularly affects the consent requirement for the numerus fixus. We believe that this is a necessary measure. The numerus fixus is not intended as a shortcut to enable selection at the gate, but is only intended for if there is a real lack of capacity or if the labour market is clearly saturated. Then a limit may be set. We have a joint responsibility to give each student the chance to make the most of himself. This also means that, where we cannot do so and where we must refuse students at the door, we have a joint responsibility to see if we can't achieve any more places, especially if that demand on the labour market is there for that training. Mr. Chairman. With the consent requirement, you can see that the deadlines are on the long side. The application must be submitted by 1 July at the latest, while institutions officially know on 1 October how many students there are. Now I can imagine that training on 1 July will in principle also have sufficient information, but I also want to prevent institutions from applying for numeri fili as a precautionary measure. That is why we also find the VVD's amendment to provide an emergency response to emergencies interesting, but the question is: how often is the numerus fixus currently requested from the Ministry? Are there any options to move the deadline for an application to October 1st? And is the amendment that the VVD offered as an emergency solution feasible? Mr. Chairman. This law is called "language and accessibility."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u31	There is a question from Mr Wiersma. Go ahead, Mr. Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u32	I was just getting the positive response of D66 to my amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u33	But I see you've recovered from it quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u34	Sure. That's what's happening to me very quickly. I also have a critical note. It's about the consent requirement. The Council of State says quite firmly that there is no need to do so, because there is no reason to assume that institutions set up a capacity standard without good grounds. This is serious, because this is how we put the minister in the chair of the education director. That's what institutions say. You must have a very good reason to do so. I would therefore like to hear an explanation from Mr Paternotte as to why he sees this need so hard.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u35	Well, I can see that with the effect that selection has. That's why we think your selection should be avoided as much as possible. The effect of this is quite significant for students. The winner of last year's thesis prize of the LSVb and ScienceGuide was a research project at Utrecht University which examined how selection requirements were formulated by programmes. She found out that respondents often say that there is arbitrariness or that there is a very short-term definition of selection requirements. One doesn't really know exactly what effects they have either. "We have a lot of work to do, but I don't really believe in it myself," says a responder, for example. An important conclusion from the research is that selection requirements must be linked to the specific educational vision and the final terms of the training. It is a somewhat longer answer, but I think Mr Wiersma is right to ask, because you must have a good reason. I also look at the effect it has on students. You can see that selection is not only selection, but also self-selection. There are students, especially from the first generation, who think: I probably won't make that selection. This makes student populations more homogeneous. This would reduce equal opportunities. In my view, then, we really have a duty to ensure that selection is used only if there is no other way: if there is a lack of capacity or if the labour market is otherwise fully saturated. That is why I think it is legitimate to use such a heavy substance as the consent requirement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u36	In conclusion, Mr Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u37	I'm wondering. I understand your arguments about selection. I'm in there a little different than D66. However, then there is still the question I asked: are these institutions not able to make that assessment themselves? So you don't actually trust them? The Council of State also says: it is only a question of whether the Minister is in the right position to really assess the need for a fixus. You are actually saying that you trust the minister rather than education, when education says the right thing: trust us and give us that space. You won't. You're not gonna stand next to education, you're gonna stand opposite. Then you must have some good arguments. And I sympathize with the need to secure something, but I am not yet convinced that these institutions could not do that properly themselves. So are you also thinking of other ways of achieving that same guarantee?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u38	In itself, it is very good to hear that the VVD expresses confidence in education and the institutions. Of course, we're gonna use that more often. I believe that the development of the binding study opinion is a good example of this. I've been talking to a lot of people about that lately. You can see it's used more often. In some universities it has become a kind of point standard or selection after the gate. What's the effect of that? Of course, it sometimes means that students have a stronger motivation; I believe that too. But there are also a lot of students for whom things are different. I am thinking, for example, of the first generation. You don't have any brothers, sisters or parents who've also been running around in college or college. You're the first. You're in a different town sometimes. If you don't get all your points in the first year, because that's the case with some institutions, it's also done. For students of the second or third generation, it is easier to study in another city, but this is often not the case for them. Then I'm thinking, does that contribute to equal opportunities? No. That's what we need to worry about. We need to see how we can better guarantee equal opportunities. Selection should not become a shortcut to make a training exclusive. So it really only applies if capacity is not there otherwise or if labour market demand is not there. Mr. Chairman. I have said a number of things about accessibility. I'll see if I have any more questions. I think it is important to ensure that the selection requirements, if you use them, are in line with the training in question as much as possible. I have therefore tabled an amendment to include the selection criteria in the OER of the training, rather than in a general scheme applicable to the entire university, so that the selection requirements are formulated by the training that the selection applies. I would like to receive a response from the Minister, but an amendment usually takes its own course. I hope that we will continue the debate on internationalisation. We have been doing this for 400 years and I think we will continue to do so for a very long time, because it suits the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u39	Thank you very much for your input, Mr. Paternotte. I am happy to give the floor to Mr Wiersma. Mr Wiersma speaks on behalf of the VVD Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Where a small country can be big. The Netherlands is that small country, but because of our open economy and our international connections we are a global player in many areas. We sometimes forget, but we are in the top five of the world's largest exporting countries. We earn most of our economy beyond our borders. Internationally highly regarded education and research are therefore crucial, both to get the most out of our own people and to bind talent to the Netherlands. The Netherlands is the country to be, when it comes to knowledge acquisition, development and knowledge transfer. Look at the facts. We have fantastic research institutes that do hugely important research around the world, such as nanotechnology or cancer, you name it; the examples can't be counted on a few hands. We have fantastic innovative courses that attract talent from all over the world and bring their knowledge to other parts of the world to make the world more beautiful. Look at Wageningen, with everything we do about agriculture and food technology. Look at Delft, with everything we do on space technology. Look at all these colleges, setting up nice exchange programs. That is the value of internationalisation. Then we are also the country where most people speak English best and where we speak 3.2 languages on average. The Netherlands therefore has a very good starting position for further internationalisation. And internationalisation, if you want to prepare students for the future, because the world is changing rapidly and the labour market is becoming increasingly international. Students from today have to work for at least 40 years, perhaps much longer, and then that international world might be much closer than it is now. Internationalisation must also be done if we want to remain that top exporting country, if we want to make our money across the border. Most of what we earn comes from across the border, too. Then we speak our languages. Then we have the most and the best innovation. Then we have the best colleges and universities. That's the ambition. We share this ambition with the Minister. Of course, this ambition in such a bill does not come to full maturity. I understand that, but we share the place where we want to get out. Only on the route there are some bumps and we don't quite share them. First of all, I have a somewhat general question in a broader picture. Then I come to language, then to accessibility, and finally I have a few small points. I'll start with the general picture. There are two key advisors of the cabinet who are nuanced in the discussion, but who are also critical. The Council of State says that you have to look at the link between funding, language policy and internationalisation, because they relate to each other. We are taking up part of that challenge in this bill, but I would like the Minister to reflect on what the Council of State says about it and where this fits in with the steps that she has left in her agenda for the coming period. The ESC, another important body, says that it is important that the international role of our higher education is not ignored, but strengthened and improved. That is support, but at the same time there is the nuance: it is important that the added value of internationalisation should be given more scope, but you should also pay attention to the negative aspects, such as increasing the workload. You must also dare to make choices for students who are particularly needed in our labour market. I'd like a reflection on how the Minister looks at that. I will start with the bad news, because the proposal is also a missed opportunity. The Netherlands benefits from international talent in every possible way, but at the moment there is no real strategy that guides proactive recruitment of knowledge and talent, but also offers opportunities to steer the influx, so that quality, capacity and workload are mainly safeguarded. That's what institutions are calling for. Several committees have already provided input to the internet consultation. Part of the Minister's position is to ignore it. Indeed, she received a motion from VVD and CDA on this matter last week. I am very curious to see how the Minister intends to implement this. There are also examples of countries that do: Canada, Denmark, the United Kingdom. There are two sides to it: instruments to control the influx, but also and above all making the Netherlands attractive abroad, so that people want to come here. This is essential in the context of the future earning capacity of the Netherlands. But then we must also pay attention to all the facilities that are under pressure: housing and other facilities, such as international schools, for example. Do we have enough of that? I see that the Minister is on the agenda for higher education. Now we have some things to fill in. I would like to give the Minister a first answer to that hook and ask her to speed it up. Attention to housing is one aspect. I also mention the facilities. But also: can we not give a place even more explicitly in trade missions talent? Can we not put universities and colleges on the agenda even more explicitly and with even more enthusiasm from OCW? Can we even set up specific talent missions where we need very specific knowledge? Maybe we want to tighten up our ties in certain countries. Can we make real talent deals with more countries? We then come to agreements with these countries on the basis of reciprocity. Now it's true that when you want to come here as a Chinese student, you need a Nuffic certificate. Actually, that's kind of a check on your diplomas. Is your grade list correct? And you name it. It would be interesting to use that as a means of extending the agreements on the basis of reciprocity. Can we meet security guards with the Chinese, too? Last week there was a Chinese scientist in a somewhat suspicious situation with blood samples from Uighurs. Questions have been asked about this too. These are situations that you want to tackle and which you also want to make agreements with each other with these countries. So the question is: would the Minister also like to examine security safeguards in the agreements with China?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u41	Mr Wiersma refers to the work that Nuffic does in China when it comes to all the papers and diplomas they have to look at. I think that fits in with what Mr Wiersma and I want, namely that you are also trying to steer qualitatively on the influx into the Netherlands. At the same time, the Minister also proposed to see if we could organise these offices in a very different way at embassies, which Nuffic himself says is being lost quite a lot. Let me take a look at that point you mention. Then how do you look at the Minister's intention when it comes to Nuffic's offices?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u42	That is a very good point and it was also in my text. To be specific, I would like to make a commitment on this point that we should first carry out the evaluation of these offices in an orderly manner, so that we can also look at what we need to guarantee. What might be lost and how are we going to do it? I think it's a good thing we're gonna get more attention to that in the embassies. At the same time, the same embassies say: because we have that network now, we can do it well. If that's suddenly gone from one day to the next, I'm not sure we're gonna get it right. There has been a very nice mission to Indonesia. There's a really big office there. That's where they work very well with the embassy. So I think you should do that nicely. I think this is a little too soon. So I'd say do an evaluation first. See what you want to keep and where the networks can or can't play a role. Bail then, and convince me, that the embassies are going to be able to take over that well. I'm not sure yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u43	I don't know about that last one either. I am quite convinced that a lot of embassies, especially in terms of knowledge diplomacy, are doing a very good job. However, I welcome Mr Wiersma's reply, which requires a thorough assessment. So thank you for turning that in, because the CDA can go along with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u44	Looks like it's a done job, but it wasn't. But you don't believe that anymore. I'd have had the talent deals. We are also curious about the Minister's plans for the stay rate. Mr Paternotte was actually asking about it. A motion was tabled earlier by Mr Özdil and my colleague Tielen on that programme'make it in the Netherlands'. At that time, the request was to come up with a follow-up programme with Economic Affairs, BZK and SZW, in order to improve the recruitment and bonding of international talent. The motion was from July 2018. Then I wonder what happened to that. It would be very good to have that programme now, without having to draw attention to it again. So what happened to that motion? How is it implemented and how is the Chamber informed? That stay rate is important, because in large, important companies such as ASML, the influx is sometimes one-on-one. A lot of people are coming, but a lot of people are leaving. That does not always have to be bad, but in many cases it is a sin: a waste of what we could have gained from that talent, but also a waste of the investments that we or those companies have made in that talent. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I come to the same point as Mr Paternotte, namely international cooperation. How beautiful it would be... We may not succeed in getting all kinds of Dutch universities in the top twenty or in getting into the top ten of the colleges, but we can succeed in making it more attractive for very good colleges and universities worldwide to come to the Netherlands. We can open up our current system to this and also give them the opportunity to offer their education here. I would ask you to explore that further.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u45	A question from Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u46	I support that plea. Because of course we are also talking about accessibility here, I was wondering if we are looking at this in the same way. Indeed, there are universities that offer even higher levels, whether you're talking about the Massachusetts Institute of Technology or a university like Oxford. But a great disadvantage of these institutions is often that you can only go there if you either bring a lot of money, or happen to be such an exceptional talent that you can get that scholarship to avoid that system. While in the Netherlands it is sometimes referred to as "a plateau" universities that are indeed in the world summit and almost all in the top 100, but are nevertheless accessible to every Dutchman who can handle that level. Would you like to retain the accessibility that we have in the Netherlands if you said it would be nice if we had even more in the top?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u47	That is partly also a rhetorical question, because of course we always want to. We want to offer even more people who can do more. For that, I think it would be interesting if these universities or colleges from abroad would share their good offer in the Netherlands as well. At the same time, you should not confuse this with that everyone should always have access to it. Of course, selection is part of that, because that also means that you look closely at who comes into that classroom. What access requirements do we need for this? How do we offer the best quality? It's no coincidence that these universities are at the top. That is precisely because they are critical of who can study at their gates. If you want to go to Harvard now, you might not get in there. Maybe that's wise. Perhaps you will come in because you are very clever, but I would like these institutions to be able to weigh up. I would not want anyone in politics, for example, Mr Paternotte, to say: you must let them in, otherwise you will not be accessible. I think we're gonna be the middle class. That's a bit of a threat if we stop profiling. That is also the agenda that the Minister wants to keep: let universities excel in what they are very good at. But that also includes applying for admissions to the students. I can't say to Harvard: cancel the admission requirements, otherwise you won't be in the Netherlands. That's a little weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u48	Finalizing Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u49	Those equal opportunities fit the Netherlands. We discussed the law of Mrs Westerveld and Mr Kwint on parental contributions last night. You can see that some schools have a parent's contribution so sky-high that there is actually no equal access there anymore and that they say: let's do something about it. At Harvard you do have selection, but you also have a tuition fee that I don't think comes under $50,000. This also means that accessibility is at stake. You say with me: we should never go to a system in which students have to invest so much money that most Dutch people think: is that never for me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u50	And by "you" you mean Mr. Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u51	Yes, Mr. Chairman. No, our education is a great asset and we want to keep it accessible to everyone, but that does not mean that everyone has to offer the same. If there are programmes that are more intensive, that are more small-scale, that are more expensive, that set very specific requirements, then that should be possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u52	Thank you. Mr Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u53	I think the latter is also the case, because with such a specific profile you can also ask for a different tuition fee. I find it interesting in itself how access to higher education is discussed by parties who have supported the lending system in terms of money and barriers. But I would like to make a point about that accessibility. It now seems as if Mr Wiersma, on behalf of the VVD, is strongly in favour of hordes being taken, whereas this law now has just as part of how we deal with the numerus fixus. On the contrary, this law restricts the freedom of institutions relatively. And I have heard Mr Wiersma speak quite positively about the law so far and I would very much like to hear from him how he will judge this point. There is still a lot of discussion about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u54	That's a bridge too. 'Cause I'm gonna come up with the law. I'll get the head of language first, then the head of accessibility. This was still part of the broader picture for me and these were the introductory shellings. So I'll come back to your points in a moment, if you'll allow me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u55	Thank you. Mrs. Van den Hul.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u56	I would like to move on to the previous point. We heard Mr Wiersma speak to us about what one might call 'elite institutions'. I have a great concern about that. How do we ensure that not only students with parents with a very thick wallet can come to study in the Netherlands, but also, for example, students from low-income countries, students from countries in Africa, Asia or South America? We think it is very important that they can also study here, and not only if they contribute to the famous Dutch earning capacity. They should also be able to study here if they then return home after, for example, learning in the city of peace and justice, where we are today, about human rights or about the International Criminal Court. Or maybe they've been able to do an internship at another special institution in this particular city. How does Mr Wiersma believe that access to these groups of students can also be guaranteed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u57	Two groups of students are mixed up. You are talking about groups of students coming from low-income families in the Netherlands and groups coming from developing countries. Those two groups are mixed up. For that last group, I think we now have a great deal of room in education. We see that, among other things, this increases the influx. This is not only because we offer space, but also because the Netherlands is attractive to students. At the same time, I say that there are limits to it. We have to be honest about that. There are limits to the capacity of institutions. There are limits to the workload of teachers and to the quality you can offer. Sometimes the influx of foreign students can express Dutch students from education. I'm just pointing out those boundaries. If we are able to make ourselves even more attractive abroad, then I think we should be honest and think about these limits as well. This bill is a step in that. I like that. I'm just saying, I think there are other steps you can take. We want to be extremely accessible, even for people from abroad. If we do this very well, it also includes that you are clear about the quality you want to guarantee in the Netherlands, and that you are also clear about the workload. So that goes for that. The other group is formed by, for example, people who come from Dutch families whose parents have not studied. I come from such a family myself. I am incredibly happy with the Dutch system. I could climb from the Mavo to the Havo, the HBO and eventually the university. I managed to do that, and we could have done that because we have this education in the Netherlands and because there were opportunities for an additional grant. You will not hear me say in any way that this would not be a good system and would distance itself from it. I can't hear you saying that either. We have an incredibly good system in the Netherlands to help people find the best education for themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u58	Mr Wiersma has really misunderstood me, because I was talking about access for students from countries where less is earned. For these people not only the cost of study, but also the cost of housing and living here in the Netherlands are very high. With these plans ahead today, there will be a minimum rate for non-EEA students, but no maximum rate. I now hear Mr Wiersma outline a horizon of international institutions of topallure that should be able to spread their roots here and thus improve the attractiveness of the Netherlands as a destination country for foreign students. Certainly, hearing what Mr Wiersma just said about earning ability, my concerns go to students from Africa, Asia, Latin America and who do not all have a tech future ahead of them, but come here to study human rights, for example, or to study other humanities. How do we ensure that they are also welcome and have access to this fantastic system in the future that Mr Wiersma has outlined for us?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u59	Now I understand the question better, but the first answer is still valid. We cannot allow unlimited people to study here, because that has consequences, so we must also dare to set limits. All you're saying is, don't let those boundaries make sure that the people we're trying to help can't study here. You mention the lack of a maximum amount of institutional tuition fees. I get that, because I don't want that either. I don't want that to be a brake for people to study here. I would rather look at: who is it, what can he and what will he add to the Netherlands? I think that these are important criteria to send. I do not think financial criteria are important. This proposal proposes a minimum level of tuition fees for people outside the EEA. I can even imagine that there are sometimes students we would like to have so badly that we do not find that minimum interesting at all, that we would like to help them to get here and that we do not want to create financial barriers for them. There are scholarship programmes for that too. I'd like to discourage that group last. I'm sure I understand your concern. I would also like us to monitor whether this is going to be the truth, because that's not what I want either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u60	Interrupts go in two, Mrs Van den Hul. I would like to give Mrs Westerveld the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u61	Here too, Mr President. We hear from Mr Wiersma, not only here but also in the newspaper and in the written questions, that the VVD wants to send more to incoming students and actually want to look more at what they get us. This morning, he's getting the paper said we don't really need all these psychology students. I wonder what figures Mr Wiersma is basing himself on. Because if we look at recent figures from GGZ Nederland, among others, it turns out that we have more than 4,000 vacancies in the Netherlands, including 1,000 for psychologists. On what figures does Mr Wiersma base his story?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u62	Just on the figures that can be found in the recent Nuffic reports. I've got them right here. Those figures show which courses are popular. Of the 85,000 international students there are about 14,000 who choose the beta angle. The rest chooses alpha studies. I mentioned the 6,000 psychologists, but the question is whether we are going to offer unlimited space for that. Or do you run into borders that affect our students in the Netherlands? Can they even study here and get good quality? In turn, the teachers, whatever your concern, should be given the space to manage things properly. When I speak to the institutions, they say: give us the room to manage that well, we are not going to say that in advance. That is not what the VVD says either, from which countries the students are welcome or not. That is totally out of the question. We want to ensure that you keep education well, but then you have to be honest: there are limits to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u63	Thank you. Mrs. Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u64	But then you have to be honest and show that the labour market of the future is difficult to predict. It's very difficult to tell which students we want. In any case, I am not participating in the calculation that the VVD seems to make of: well, we do want to bring in the students who give us the most money as a country. I would like to ask Mr Wiersma again what he is basing this on and how he wants to properly calculate which students we would like and which, above all, not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u65	I am confident that the institutions will be able to make that choice. I base myself, among other things, on Nuffic's figures, which simply give an overview of the number of students coming to the Netherlands. Furthermore, in its opinion on the Strategic Agenda, the Economic and Social Council made it very clear that I asked the Minister just now that we should also look at what our Dutch labour market needs most. We can see that this is not always happening. My concern is that, if we do not consistently do so, our Dutch education will be under great pressure, and that we will in the meantime fail to think about how we can help our labour market with this. I think it's quite logical that you look at what someone in the Netherlands can do. It's not just free development work and charity, it's a way to build a more beautiful Netherlands. That is what we all do, and that is what we do with teachers who can handle the workload and students who are entitled to good quality education. Let everyone come in and see how things go, that doesn't make the Netherlands any better. It is precisely because talent is so beneficial that we also need to think about protecting our security, our good and accessible facilities of higher education, the workload of teachers and the capacity of education. That is precisely why we are critical of a number of elements of the legislative proposal. I'll walk them by, starting with the language, followed by accessibility. The measures taken in the context of language are sensible. There are also risks, because of course things still have to be worked out. Language policy should not discourage the VVD from coming here to study. Because that affects accessibility, and we want to be attractive to people in order to learn and take over our knowledge and experience here. Then how is the Minister going to ensure this? The ISO points out that this choice must lie with the student. The SER also says: a choice for English belongs to that student and to that institution. Does the Minister agree with us? How are we gonna make sure this is properly secured? The choice of language is also something that should be tested by the NVO. This can lead to a considerable, and unnecessary, workload. Let's not make things any harder for each other than it already is. It should simply not be unworkable for the NVO and the institutions. That's what the VSNU says. But how are we gonna guarantee that? For example, can we not simply exclude programmes that are obviously English, such as honours lectures, university lectures and double degrees, so that you avoid unnecessary bureaucracy? Could we work that out in the AMvB?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u66	There is a question from Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u67	I agree with Mr Wiersma that unnecessary bureaucracy must be avoided. As someone who's had to do accreditations from the teacher's side, I know how terrible they can be. But on the other hand, if you cannot explain the added value of English-language education as a programme, then you are totally wrong? Obviously, that shouldn't be a very complicated process at all, should it? You have to be able to argue that, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u68	That seems to me to be the case, but the NVO has placed critical notes on the criteria, from one third to two thirds. He said that bureaucracy is complicated for us. I could imagine, I just think for a moment that there are training courses where it is obvious and where you do not need these tests at all. Could you make that easier? That is actually the question to the Minister. But if you can't, you can. I have also tabled an amendment with Mr Van der Molen to take a closer look at the criteria for each AMvB, so that we can put something workable and not push things through in advance that may not be necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u69	Rounding off, Mr. Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u70	I agree. Ultimately, it will depend on the criteria. We need to assess the impact. But that is also why I am not very inclined to say: we are going to exclude groups in advance before we know what those criteria look like.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u71	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u72	Okay. Mr Van de Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u73	The CDA, together with Mr Wiersma of the VVD, is indeed putting forward a proposal to make this list, but the charming thing about that proposal is that the Minister cannot make her own list but can also take a look at the Chamber. That might be good to notice. But I do have a question for Mr Wiersma, and it is about the Dutch language among international students. He made a plea earlier in his speech: they should stay here in particular. One of the most important preconditions for this is the mastery of the Dutch language. But I hear Mr Wiersma say now: if they come here to study, we should not bother them too much with Dutch, because that could be quite compelling. Could Mr Wiersma put those two things together for me? 'Cause they seem to be kind of conflicting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u74	I said "I have a limit" and that limit is that it must not lead to discouragement to come here. I would find it a shame if the talent from Oxford, which we are about to get here even more quickly because of Mr Paternotte's brexit emotion, thinks in advance: well, I don't, because Mr Van der Molen is making me compulsory on Dutch lessons. I would say: order that beer in English, but in the meantime offer Dutch at the institution. Make sure you offer it as best you can. I have a tip for that, by the way. There are a lot of moocs, online courses, also in English. Moocs in English are offered on institutions, but let's make them centrally available on one website, so you can already use all those good best practices in Oxford that have settings to teach you the language. I would like to make it attractive in that sense. I wouldn't say it's a hurdle you have to get over right away, but I do think that if you want to work here, we should teach you Dutch. That's what we think is very important. But let's try to do that right by seducing people and not by pushing it right through, at the risk of scaring off talent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u75	Clear. Finalizing, Mr. Van der Molen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u76	I do not think it is entirely consistent. Mr Wiersma tries to send a kind of qualitative influx every time, which should above all ensure that people stay here. The point that I make and that Mr Wiersma himself made, namely that we have to make another kind of program, a kind of make it in the Netherlands! ... In the past there was money to help people who stayed here, while they had studied here. The problem is not that someone from Oxford in the Netherlands can no longer order beer. The problem is that in very large numbers of cities in the Netherlands as a Dutchman you can no longer order a beer in English, because the people who work there are not powerful in the Dutch language. So I invite Mr Wiersma once again: what is his idea of giving people enough Dutch, so that if they stay here, they can get out of their way, in their work and in society?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u77	That is the point that institutions also organise things for that purpose. That's what's in this bill, too. I have also asked for good examples of the moocs, which some institutions already offer on one website, such as the Study website in Holland. You could use that website as some sort of site. You see now that everyone is developing their own programs, but some things we can also make available to everyone. Such a website might be a little better to find than the websites that the institutions themselves have for that purpose. Mr. Chairman. Participation has the right of assent to language policy through the training committees. That's nice, important and good, but how are we going to make that work? The Council of State rightly points to a number of challenges, including the occupation of training committees. Those challenges are not new. I'm curious about the Minister's approach. How is it going to inform them specifically so that they can take this task seriously? Perhaps a course should be organised for them at the central level. The Minister has undoubtedly thought about this. I wonder how she'd want to do that. Mr. Chairman. I come to the language skills of teachers. I think a lot of students recognize it. You're in a class and the teacher you're hearing may have had a course, but some of the technical concepts you don't quite understand, while the teacher does his best. That's what we call "coal angels." Stonecoal, you might say. I believe that the institutions should not only offer Dutch to foreign students, but that they should also have the English offer in order. I think there's an offer for students, but it could be better for teachers. Would the Minister also like to bring that to the attention of the House? There are standards on how to be in control and what you have to comply with. I've heard that one has to meet C1. I also see that this standard has not always been formally laid down everywhere, and that it is also, I would ask the Minister if that is true, only in the case of people in permanent employment. It happens that staff who are not on permanent duty is in front of the classroom. That must, also important, be able to speak English. I think it's too skinny if we trust this is enough. I would like to ask the Minister what is true of this. How are teachers' language skills? What kind of studies do we have in which students reflect what they think about it? Can't we get a plan of action on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u78	Mr Wiersma said in this debate on a number of points that he had difficulty in imposing new questions and obligations on institutions. Now there is a point where a standard already exists. Teachers need to reach C1 level. Institutions are watching over that. Mr Wiersma does not say that we should entrust this to the institutions, but that we should have a plan of action. Can you tie those two things together for me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u79	Yeah, I can do that very well, I guess. You hear me say that the C1 standard applies only to people in permanent employment. A lot of people in education do not teach in permanent service. You're actually saying I don't have to look at that. I call for that standard to be applied to anyone who teaches in education. I wonder if you disagree, because that's what you're suggesting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u80	You're both talking through the chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u81	Mr Wiersma puts all these things in my mouth that I did not say at all. I feel that institutions are taking this very seriously. There's a standard. Even when people temporarily stand in front of rooms, institutions now believe that the level should be reasonable. The situation of 15 years ago, in which everyone had to get used to it, is in itself over. My question is very simple: why does Mr Wiersma not trust the institutions on this point and why does he impose additional bureaucracy and accountability and a plan of action on them to achieve this? On other subjects, he says that he has no need to give any direction to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u82	If there is a party that sits in the chair of the educational board, then you are doing so with the proposals you make. I understand that you want to push back with that confidence, but at this point I see that there is an offer of institutions. I wonder if this is always offered and made possible by everyone, including teachers in non-permanent service, whether we also help them to do so and whether we also know how students appreciate English. A survey I have here shows that 16% of international students complain about the language skills of the teachers. I think we should take these signals seriously. I would therefore ask the Minister whether she is talking about this with the institutions and whether she can see how we can improve it. What standards should we perhaps make more widely applicable? I don't think that's a weird question. You're making a trick out of it by saying that I put things on institutions. I'm in the process of improving education. If you don't want to do that, you don't want to do it, but I'm just gonna ask.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u83	Mr Wiersma also spoke through the president.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u84	Apologies, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u85	Thank you. Mr Paternotte, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u86	You can call it a trick, but my question is very simple. You want a plan of action.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u87	Mr Wiersma wants a plan of action.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u88	There's a problem here and the Minister can look into it? Only you say: can the Minister make a plan of action and can we apply standards more widely? This means that we are imposing a little more on institutions. I am indeed asking how this is consistent with what you said earlier in the debate. You don't have to whack back right away; you can also just answer. In other words, Mr Wiersma can answer that question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u89	Thank you. Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u90	Do you mind if I take a moment to respond?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u91	It was actually a short reaction, and otherwise we'll talk about it again and again. Well, then you're definitely gonna challenge me again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u92	No, we're not gonna do that. I have just asked a number of questions to hear more from the Minister about this, so I thought it was a bit short on Mr Paternotte's bend.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u93	I would now like to go to Mr Futselaar for his question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u94	As I said to Mrs Westerveld at the start of this debate, this is mainly going to sit back and watch coalition parties take each other's weight. It's a good thing I'm right. I have a broader question that is not just about specific C1 level or not, but more about English-speaking education. That is what I am asking as someone who himself has followed and taught English. Each study shows that if a non-native speaker teaches in another language, or if a non-native speaker receives education in another language, there is a loss of information transmission. That's right. Sometimes that's limited, but that's just what it is. You can compensate for that by, for example, giving more hours, but then you have to. Should we not also look at this in English-speaking education? How do you guarantee that, for example, an English-language variant that in theory has just as many hours, will maintain the same level of education?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u95	I think that's an interesting question. You are actually saying that if we really take the language seriously as a way of conveying education optimally, we must also ensure that it is done. I also ask this question because I am not always sure that it will happen, although at a different level of abstraction than you, because I am a little woodier in it. I often hear from students that this is still a challenge. So how is this being worked on at institutions? Can't we see what that standard does and make a plan of action for it? I find it interesting that you say that we should check whether the quality is still in order in the translation into English. I think that's something the NVAO should or could do. I am also curious whether they will do so, so I would like to put that question to the Minister through the President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u96	In conclusion, Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u97	Suppose there is an education with a Dutch language and an English language variant whose programme states that the curriculum is exactly the same and where the same teacher does both the English language and the Dutch language variant, then I think you have something to explain as an education. I think the NVAO should look into that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u98	Yeah, interesting. I'm curious to hear the Minister's answer. Then I'll get to the access block. At the heart of the matter for us is that this minister does not want to select people we desperately need for our labour market, but instead opts for measures that might make our teaching for foreign talent, but also for our own students, more unattractive. I like that "maybe"; I find that complicated. That is why I have put forward a number of proposals with amendments and I shall also table a number of motions. I am curious about the Minister's answers, but I will go through our points on this part of the law. It is the hardest part and we are critical of it. First of all, there is a national committee of international students in higher education. It notes that there is actually a great deal of uncertainty in the field about the existing possibilities in current legislation and regulations, which allow educational institutions to define their admission policies. This is the result of a combination of the WHW and the Aliens Act and there is uncertainty about that. My question is whether we can help them by communicating it more clearly. Can we give an instruction or information about this, because this is seen by several people who have provided input to the law? The aim should also be to create measures that create sufficient opportunities for the institution to shape an admission policy and thus also to avoid capacity problems. Does the Minister agree that that should be the goal? The same national committee notes that there are still too few instruments available to manage the influx. Does the Minister agree with that? Furthermore, the ibo also notes a number of points. Some of the ibo's proposals are not taken on board here. Why doesn't the Minister choose that? The measures now included in the legislative proposal for accessibility are actually tricks to prevent us allowing students to study on the basis of selection. The Council of State also points out that this in turn leads to unnecessary complexity, because you now have to ask the Minister for permission in advance for a fixus on a non-lingual route. I'd say that's all about the hot stuff. I will give a few examples in the law regarding the consent requirement. The criticism of the domes and the Council of State is that two years may be unworkable and the necessity is not convincing. What is the story to the people with whom they can be convinced and they get the confidence that this will work for them? How's the Minister gonna do this? This is a serious question, because we are making an important law of which this is a major part, and there is criticism of it. I wonder how the Minister wants to parry it. How do we prevent these two years of unnecessary hassle and bureaucracy? Is the Minister talking to them, to the Association of Colleges and the VSNU, to make this workable for them? What's coming out of this conversation? There's gonna be a committee that's gonna do the review. What's he gonna look like? How is it brought together? There will be a ministerial arrangement with criteria. Is that gonna be a front? We would then like to see them, because those criteria are still unclear. There is a description of efficiency and the labour market, but we are not clear how that is being looked at. I would like information on this from the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Two points are important for the VVD. One: we must, of course, always want to avoid student stops on training for deficit sectors. That is why we have this bill, but I am curious to see what guarantees the Minister will put in with that committee in order to test extra when it is really a deficit sector, for example in beta and technology, so that we really do not go so easily to that fixus. I understand that capacity discussions and funding play a role, but we do this for a reason. So it really has to work for that. I'd like to get guarantees from the Secretary of State. I mentioned the labour market component, i.e. efficiency. How is it taken? In the letter of amendment, the Minister mentions this as a matter of consideration for the committee, but how should we see it in practice in the near future? The minister only allows a numerus fixus on a different-language track. Student organisations express the fear that this Dutch track can also become a drain. I understand that fear, but I can't see it fully substantiated either. I am looking for this and I therefore ask the Minister to keep a close eye on it so that we can see if this is the effect. Is there anything known about previous situations in the Netherlands or elsewhere, for example, about a track with numerus fixus? What did this do for the accessibility and how it was experienced, but also for the quality of such a track? Was that a drain or not? What opportunities do training courses have to make additional demands if they want to do so in order to make that track more attractive and, for example, to ask for motivation for it? Do they have opportunities to do so and, if not, why not? Why shouldn't we give them a little more space to choose for themselves so that they can both keep their tracks attractive? Mr. Chairman. Then the institution tuition fees. There will be a minimum rate for students from outside the EEA. I have already said to Mrs van den Hul that this may also have disadvantages. This is true of the maximum amount of subsidy, as the LSVb also points out because we do not know how that will work out. Can we monitor that? That's how I'm asking the Minister. We don't know how much these amounts are going to go up. There may also be situations where the level of entry is too high at all. The question is whether there are enough opportunities to get a scholarship, so that we can also offer it to talent that we would like to get here. What room is there for customization in this area? Is that also something that the Minister can give further form, so that there is a possibility to say: I really do not think this is useful, in this way we miss talent? I think it would be important to call on the institution to do so. The VVD aims to make it more possible for institutions to set admission requirements. Specifically in the case of foreign language training, this is the way to control inflow and workload and to maintain quality. That's obvious. We are now missing a strategy, and I said it at the beginning when I spoke about the motion that we tabled with the CDA last week in order to steer that quality and, at the same time, to focus on international influx into studies that are actually contributing to our labour market. It's en-and. You have to do both right. We're choosing to do both, and I think that's unwise. That is why I call this proposal a missed opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u99	What is the VVD thinking about with these admission requirements? Should we throw up the tuition even further? Or should there be other admission requirements? I would like to tell Mr Wiersma of the VVD that, of course, there is already an admission requirement, and that is the diploma. Nuffic and all kinds of institutions among themselves are doing very well when it comes to looking at the quality of that diploma. Everyone here agrees that this quality must, of course, be sufficient. What further admission requirements, apart from that diploma, should there be?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u100	As far as I'm concerned, it's not financial. I'm not sitting on that. I am thinking of the fear of a drain on such a Dutch track. I can imagine that an institution wants space.I'm not gonna decide what it is to think about how to make that track just as attractive. I studied in Groningen. There was indeed an English-language psychology course in which the influx was very strong. It actually became almost a German language education. The course was given in English, but there was only German influx. I think it is wise that you look at the Dutch component: is that in balance or are we attracting many more people who are going to do the English language training? Would you just ask for a letter of motivation? Would you like to take a good look at the numbers? There may be opportunities for institutions to find that they should make that attractive or that they should be more selective. I think it is right for us to allow institutions to do so. I understand you don't, but that's my decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u101	Finalizing, Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u102	We always see that certain students have priority if you continue to select, for example by means of a motivation letter. I would like to ask Mr Wiersma if he agrees with me. For example, we now also see that students whose parents are doctors always have priority when writing a letter of motivation, because then the parents can do so for them. There is always priority when selecting. I would like to ask Mr Wiersma whether he really agrees with this for the equality of opportunity of all students in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u103	You're making it very big. I think it is important that the quality of an education is good and that you help each other to move forward when you do an education. It's not for nothing that the big programs like psychology say on the first day: look to the left and look to the right; the one on your left will be gone in two months and the one on your right may not be there in a year. It's not for nothing that these training courses have a huge breakdown. I think it's important that you can make agreements with each other and manage expectations in advance and thus help to get better education. Then I don't think it's crazy for an institution to think about that. I'd like to give them that space. You don't want to offer that space. I can see that I am not getting a majority for that, but I would think it important to offer it. That's what I'm giving you. Then you know why I want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u104	First of all, a teacher who starts the first lecture with "look to the left and to the right, because they all go away," as far as I am concerned, has to leave higher education. That's a thought. Teachers do indeed have to pay for their achievements. That can be very easy because they almost all have a temporary contract, which is a disgrace, but we'll talk about that later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u105	Your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u106	Actually, we're doing the selection debate a little bit here. One of the thorns in the eye of the anti-selection party is a proliferation of tests and motivation letters. All kinds of settings hobby when it comes to selection. I'm saying it a little loud, but that's the bottom line. Isn't Mr. Wiersma afraid he's opening a new gate for hobby? And specifically, I would like to ask him if, if he does, he is at least willing to say that you should only do it if the selection method you use is scientifically sound. And so not: well, I had a teacher and he wanted to make a language test.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u107	Yeah, I agree on the last point. I think you should do that with instruments that work. We're not putting things through people's noses because one person happens to think they can't. You have to take that very seriously in such a case. I just think that if you do your best to be attractive to talent, and if you do, it can't be any different than taking the consequences seriously and thinking about how you're going to control the influx and guaranteeing the quality of all those students. That's one-on-one. I agree with you that you need to find the right instruments for this, but we cannot get around that discussion. It's all around the hot stuff.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u108	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u109	Yes, Mr. Chairman. I told you that this bill does not do either and that it also opts for the risk of education becoming more unattractive for everyone. We do not want to steer through discouragement policy, but precisely at the gate already controlling the influx. That is why we also have two amendments which I would like to explain. One has already been submitted, and the other hopefully will follow soon. One is to enable a cap on non-EEA students at specific training courses and also in specific circumstances. You sometimes see the influx increase sharply. There are well-known examples. Computer science in Delft is an example of that. Normally there are 200 to 300 places and suddenly there is a large number of entries from outside the EEA up to 1,000 or 1,200. In such cases, such an institution must take action. Those measures are not legal now. The question is, shouldn't we help them do that legally? Not to make sure that an emergency restriction is needed every once in a while, but so that, if necessary, it can and it is legal. For that we have an amendment for the Minister. We also have an amendment on not only this emergency restriction, but on the possibility of setting limits at all for students from outside the EEA. Institutions also say they're more erratic. This is particularly true in universities. The influx sometimes increases faster than usual. That makes it very difficult to plan. And something you wouldn't want is just to steer with an emergency control. So you would like to give the institutions room in advance. They can estimate a very large increase of students from outside the EEA. Institutions can do this because their training is so well written that people from outside Europe really make lists and actively seek them out. This affects the quality of education and the workload, but it also gives that institution virtually no opportunity to anticipate it. So we are also proposing that the amendment should be followed up in order to create opportunities outside Europe to set limits.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u110	I see a question from Mrs Westerveld. I'll look your way, too, but if I cheat, I can see you're getting along.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u111	If I were to look at education in the same way as the VVD and think about who gives me the most and what I have to use, and when I see that the CPB has recently calculated that students who do not come from the EEA, on average during the time they are here, will produce almost a tonne of money. We will calculate the costs and benefits, and then they will deliver us a tonne of money in the EU instead of restricting the influx, we would not have to invest on getting the more to the Netherlands, for example by broadening the funding of institutions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u112	I find this an interesting argument from GroenLinks. It's a good thing you're looking at what we can make money with. That's good. I'd say hold that. But that money that students need doesn't go directly to students. Students need good education. I want us to help those students get the best education of the best teachers. When you say everyone's welcome, you have to be honest about that, too. You also know that these pre-proposals can really be outliers. That's just trouble at an institution like this. Then you have to be honest. Then you must help them to control the influx, to secure the workload and to guarantee the quality and not, on the other hand, to evict Dutch students. That's what happened in Delft, in computer science. At some point there will be a numerus fixus. It is completely filled with Chinese and Indian students. And the Dutch students are watching that and can't do anything. I think that's an undesirable situation. So, no, I'm not just looking at whether it's working. I'm also checking to see if it's really good education. So it's a combination. I am convinced that in the long term this will bring the Netherlands the most benefits.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u113	Thank you. Finalizing, Mrs Westerveld.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u114	I am, of course, also looking at what internationalisation gives us in a broad sense. That is what I am going to discuss in my contribution. But I consciously said I'd take a look at this subject with the VVD glasses. I see that Mr Wiersma, in his contribution and also in the newspaper, is looking at who gives us the most and what we should be most committed to. I see that figures from the CPB show that international students from outside the EEA average us a tonne. We also hear this from institutions. I now know the example of computer science from Delft. It comes back every time. Fine, but there are more institutions. They indicate that they are in short supply. They indicate that the student cost has fallen. Surely it would be a solution to invest more in institutions, to invest more so that they can attract more international students? Then Dutch students will not be replaced. That's a win for all of us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u115	But then we still haven't resolved that we need to set clear limits here as well. We also need to be honest about what we mainly need in the Netherlands. Let us also draw up a strategy on this. How can we maximise the need of the Netherlands for our labour market with our internationalisation strategy? We have not given enough thought to this and then we have this kind of discussion. Then we get a bill that's not yet finished. Then we get discussions about whether there is not much more money to go to education. Of course, going everywhere a lot more money is always a good solution, because then you never have a problem to solve. But I think it's important that we think about things we do. If we invite people to come here, we have to offer them good education. We need to be able to secure that. It can't always be. That's what teachers complain about. Then you have to help institutions to secure that. I'd like to give them instruments for that. To that end, I have a number of amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u116	Thank you. You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u117	Mr. Chairman. Then we have the students in Europe. That is more complicated, because we have the same rules for free movement here. So I wonder how many students from within Europe we have here in the Netherlands. And how many Dutch people study in Europe? We know the benefits. Mrs Westerveld mentioned it. But also look at the costs from the lumpsum: how much is going to that group of students? How many of the state's resources goes to this group of people who come here to study from Europe? Then what are we talking about? There are arguments for wanting to control the inflow, namely because you want to ensure the capacity and quality. What opportunities does the Minister see for doing this better? This can be done on the one hand by bringing more money there. But then the Minister must also be prepared to ask for that money from other countries in Europe. The Netherlands is a net contributor. Then we should also have a discussion in Europe about how we can be helped to finance that additional capacity. What agreements can the Minister in Europe make with countries? There are also countries that have the opposite problem, which have a lack of talent. I was talking about those talent deals at first. I would like to have a positive discussion with countries about how to increase the exchange and how to improve the recognition of diplomas and skills. How can you involve business more so that it also becomes more attractive to take an internship in another country? It's also part of bringing that financial component with you. Is the Minister prepared to have that conversation in Europe? The ESC points out for a reason that EU students in training with little added value for our economy and students with a low stay rate may be a disproportionate burden on the budget of our education system. They don't say that for nothing. My question, therefore, is whether the Minister is prepared to explore this suggestion from the ESC, to have a discussion about it in Europe and to accept that suggestion. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I have two points to make. My colleague, Mr Tielen, has already tabled a motion for a single entry point, because we also see that it is sometimes attractive for institutions to bring in a lot of students from outside Europe. You'll be able to hang your own fare on that in no time at all. Then it could become even more attractive, when we do not want competition between ourselves on that aspect. Her motion called for one entry point. I'd love to have that centralized. That is where you can check whether it adds anything to the labour market, I would say to the Minister. Also check that these institutions do not compete with each other, that tuition fees are not charged unnecessarily high. I wouldn't approve of that. That one entry point could be a solution to that. That motion has been passed. How and when will it be carried out? Where can we see that? Mr. Chairman. Finally, the MBO. There's a part of the MBO in this bill. At the MBO, the challenge of internationalisation may be even greater, but the opportunities are also much greater. Especially in some border regions, we can do so much more to help institutions do better, encourage students to do something across borders, perhaps specifically in Germany. I see those numbers are lagging behind. I would like the Minister to take a closer look at this, look into it and see how we can help with the challenge of the MBO on internationalisation. Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u118	Thank you. I would like to give the floor to Mr Bishop before lunch. After Mr Bishop's speech, I propose that the sitting be suspended for lunch. I would add that Mr Bishop speaks on behalf of the SGP Group. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That's totally correct. I do not know exactly whether this announcement is an encouragement to interrupt much or not. I'd like to leave that to all of you. I would like to thank those Members who gave me the opportunity to speak earlier than I was on the list of speakers. I made that request because I have to be at another meeting at 2:00 p.m. We couldn't do that internally. I am therefore very grateful to my fellow Members. Thank you for having patience to postpone lunch. Mr. Chairman. Last summer, the Maatschappij der Nederlandse Letterkunde again awarded the prize for the best dissertation on Dutch linguistics. I repeat: on Dutch linguistics. The title of that dissertation is: Policy versus Practice; Language variation and change in eighth- and nineteenth-century Dutch. I repeat: Language variation and change in eighth and nineteenth-century Dutch. Of course, this must be done in English. Other prizes have also been awarded, for a thesis and an article, I believe. Who's sketching our surprise? No, actually, he's not even here anymore. All three awards were awarded to English publications. Then we are talking about the Society of Dutch Literature. Totally logical I couldn't find this. There is nothing wrong with foreign languages, of course, but it seems that we are dealing with our own language in the Netherlands. I would like to draw attention to three points in my contribution. I would like to comment on the language policy, the external tests and the influx of students. First of all, language policy. Language is the entrance. Access to each other, access to art, access to culture, access to the future, access to education, access to other population groups. In view of the legal title, I assume that the Minister would also like to stress this. It is a question of language and accessibility. When I look at the explanatory statement, it seems to be pointing in some other direction. Language stands for the possibility to deviate from the language of the language, the message seems to be from this bill, while accessibility is about limiting the possibility of introducing a numerus fixus. In addition, the government has added the possibility of abolishing compulsory language policies and consent if necessary for the labour market and the economy. Packed in a long story, but in the proposal I simply read that language requirements can be sacrificed to economic conditions, if they so request. Mr. Chairman. If we see language in its entirety as part of the quality of education, then surely you cannot allow such a concession? For the SGP, the language is at least as serious as any other part of quality. I take it the Minister doesn't mean to interfere with that. Is that right? Then there's another question. Aren't we creating undesirable legal inequalities between institutions here? Towards Maastricht University, we could understandably say that an exception to language requirements is appropriate, but is it fair in the current economy and labour market that an institution in Utrecht is strictly subject to the law for the same study? The Ministry of Education has been working on access to legislation for a number of years, which is a good aim, but unfortunately legislative proposals such as this are becoming more and more extensive and more complex and therefore does not promote accessibility. For example, the current law simply says the following. 1. Use Dutch in teaching. 2. For derogation from this rule, use a code of conduct because as an institution you must have a code of conduct. What does the bill say? 1. Use Dutch in teaching. 2. Deviation without language policy is fine if it is not more than a third. 3. Formulate language policy if the other language is more than one third. 4. Request the agreement of the NVAO in the case of more than two thirds. 5. Try to get the Minister to grant a special exemption in certain cases. The result is that we have two language supervisors, namely the NVAO accreditation body for exemptions and the inspection of content, while initially the intention was to reduce the role of the inspection as much as possible. The short question to the Minister is: do we really want to make this so complex? The SGP I admit is not particularly dissatisfied with the current law. The problem was mainly in enforcement. At a time when almost all institutions now have a code of conduct, the legislator would say that language policy is not always necessary. That is a deterioration which we cannot really place. In any case, the SGP considers it important that institutions always make it clear how they deal with language and why they deviate from Dutch. I would therefore like to ask for a response to the amendment that has been tabled by us on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u120	Also a question about the amendment. I understand that the SGP says that you have to work on Dutch for all students and that you have to include it in a code of conduct. What exactly is the demand you want to make for all international students?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u121	At the institutions funded by public funds, we believe that Dutch should indeed be worked on by foreign students as well. This also has to do with a piece of self-awareness in the sense of: we have something to offer. There may be an effort to ensure that the Dutch language is as specific as possible. So I am talking about funded institutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u122	Finalizing, Mr Paternotte.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u123	Just for duplicity. This also means, for example, that a beta student who comes here for a one- or two-year Master's degree and who may not be very lingual but who might then be able to work at ASML, according to the SGP then has to learn Dutch?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u124	Yeah, that doesn't mean that I'm making statements about the level at which they're supposed to achieve that. I can imagine that, when taking part in someone's education, you make further, different demands than when someone is in full training here. Take Wageningen. I realize that the university has a high international character there, but there is no reason to establish it exclusively in English.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u125	I think it's a good thing that if you come here and study here for a long time, you do your best to make your own Dutch. I think we'll find each other there. But you're making a commitment. I think you should have the offer. You're making an obligation. Then I ask you: have you thought about the consequences that might be attached to this? For example, there are countries in Europe that have done this, such as Italy. After that they saw the influx quite collapsed. I do not think language is the best example of selection, so to speak. Because I think you should see if it's the good people you want to be able to study here. So do you agree with me that we should not want these consequences? And have you thought about how we could deal with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u126	Of course, universities, and also a number of colleges, operate in a broad, international context. We need to be aware of that. At the same time you are talking about public money, Dutch money, funded institutions, which, as far as we are concerned, are primarily at the service of Dutch students. We also have agreements within the EU. That's what we're gonna do. But out there, you can make demands. I also do not entirely agree with the line that we should bring the talents from abroad to the Netherlands as much as possible and try to keep as much here as possible. No, I think we should be open to people who want to study from abroad and from other continents here. We are not going to close the door to that in principle, although you have to regulate it. If there are students coming here from Africa who then go back to their own country, their homeland, I would find that an excellent way to support those countries in building their own society. There is still much to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u127	Mr Wiersma, concluding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u128	I understand that, and I like that too. At the same time, we also attach an additional requirement to this group, namely that they should learn Dutch here. That's what they're taking back to that country. The question is whether you should make such a firm commitment. I have great doubts about that, let me put it this way. You want to do that, but then I wonder if you'll make a distinction in that, for example when it comes to how long you're studying here. And what level is that supposed to be? Can you explain how you see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u129	I have not worked out this in detail at the moment, but I think that is more the form of action. As far as I'm concerned, we can talk about that. Mr. Chairman. The SGP is critical of the proposed criterion of "added value" and, in particular, of the discrepancy between this term and the legal definition that it must be "in the interest of the student." This could be a recipe for renewed language struggle, while this bill had to settle the battle. The SGP is concerned that the Council of State and the inspection on this point do not see any improvement in advance compared to the legislation in force. It would be nice if we could manage that. I therefore call for a clarification of the legal text. I read in the bill the addition that the choice for English should be more in the interest of the student than the choice for Dutch. Is this the tightening-up of the current text? Does this mean that institutions must make it crystal clear that, first of all, the quality of education is more served by offering in English than by offering in Dutch? Mr. Chairman. Then there is another point in this respect: non-costed programmes abroad do not have to work on the Dutch language skills of students. The SGP then finds it logical to extend this situation to non-cost institutions in the Netherlands. The bill does not do enough justice to their own specific nature. The law must ensure that the quality is in order and that there are no abuses, but for the rest, the government must leave as much space as possible. Mr. Chairman. I come to the second point: the external tests. Ideally, language policy is a responsibility that stakeholders within the institution can manage independently. External bodies shall at most ensure that procedures have been complied with and that qualitative considerations are sufficiently present. The SGP is therefore not a fan of all kinds of new prior external keys. I will not take too much of the NVAO's test, because that test has been largely deprived of added value by the letter of amendment, because only in the case of more than two thirds of multilingualism consent is required. I am more concerned about the Minister's permission to introduce a numerus fixus. One of my colleagues has already referred to this. First of all, I find this difficult because the sector has shown good performance in recent years. This key therefore comes unexpectedly and too early. We are also in danger of having institutions become a kind of implementation office of the Ministry of Education. They may limit their inflow only as long as the Ministry permits and under the conditions set by the Ministry. Can they still fulfil their responsibilities? According to the Civil Code, directors are responsible for driving the legal person. What should directors do when they consider that further influx of students is not justified, but the Minister does not authorise the establishment of a numerus fixus? The funding of higher education is an important problem here. In addition, I have a picture from the VSNU's bottleneck analysis in mind. The number of students in universities has increased by 100,000 since 2000, while funding per student has fallen from €20,000 to around €15,000. The minister turns the screws on, but the money tap doesn't open. Is this, in my mind, a fair administrative partnership? The third point is how to control student entry. It would be nice if we could serve the foreign students, but the first task of our institutions is to serve Dutch students. I found the explanation contained in the further note on the report useful. Is the Minister actually saying that institutions control the influx of students from outside the EEA entirely themselves, by choosing whether they become recognised referees at the IND? That is an important fact to establish. I'd like another shovel on top of that. The Minister seems to suggest that institutions should allow all students from outside the EEA if they are recognised referees, but why should this be necessary? If that were the case, would the Minister be prepared to look with the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs to see how we can arrange more customization? In my opinion, it is mainly a matter of political will and international rules do not stand in the way of us. I'd like to look forward to a response from the Minister. The numerus fixus is also a useful tool for controlling the numbers of foreign students. Why does the Minister not regulate the right of institutions to set up a numerus fixus independently for English-language courses? Otherwise, it would be contrary to existing EU regulations, at least as far as non-EEA students are concerned. For accessibility, we focus on a Dutch-language offer and the Dutch-speaking student. This ensures access to basic education. The accessibility of English-language pathways for all socio-economic groups can be promoted, if necessary, through policies. Finally, Mr President. The language skills of foreign students are also important. That has just been discussed in an interruption. I think I can leave this point alone if the Minister is prepared to include the questions raised in the interruption in the answer. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll come to a closure. I make no secret of it: at first we as a group were very sceptical about this bill, because of the points of criticism. We were strongly inclined to vote against it. We then asked ourselves: 'These are the administrative jitters we have to deal with, to what extent amendments could improve this bill in such a way that it is an improvement compared to the law in force.' We have now tabled an amendment to that effect, and some others will follow. Depending on the fate of these amendments, our own voting behaviour will ultimately be determined. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-11-tweedekamer-7.u130	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. In doing so, you have been excused for the rest of the debate, as you yourself announced. I'm gonna suspend the meeting for 45 minutes. After the suspension, we shall begin voting and then the order of business.
