ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-5.u1	The next item is the commemoration of Mr B. Hofman. I ask the Members to stand up. On 2 May last, Bart Hofman, former senator for the VVD, died. He was a member of the First Chamber from 21 September 1982 until 23 June 1987. Bartheld Hofman was born on 7 August 1921 in Goor. After the public primary school he did the mulo for one year in Goor and then took his final exam in gymnasium beta in Hengelo (Overijssel). Mr. Hofman started his studies at the University of Leiden in 1940 and moved to the Municipal University in Amsterdam a year later, where he continued his studies. Between 1943 and 1945 he was in hiding, which forced him to interrupt his studies. After World War II, he passed his candidate exam in Amsterdam in 1945 and in 1947 in Leiden in 1947. He also completed his doctor's exam, namely semi-doctor and doctor, in Leiden, in 1950. In the same year, Mr.Hofman started as a pediatric assistant, but soon he moved to the Netherlands Institute of Preventive Medicine in Leiden and became assistant medical microbiology. In 1953 he obtained his PhD in medical microbiology. From 1953 to 1954, Mr. Hofman was an assistant microbiology at the Presbyterian Hospital School of Medicine at Columbia University in New York. In 1957 he moved from the Netherlands Institute of Preventive Medicine to the National Institute of Public Health (RIVM) and became head of the poliomyelitis laboratory. Vaccination with IPV, inactivated polio vaccine, is offered in the Netherlands through the National Vaccination Programme. Bart Hofman worked on this with his team until he became a member of the Deputy State of Utrecht in 1974, where he received the portfolio of environmental hygiene, land consolidation and information processing. Politically active was Bart Hofman before. From 1968 he was treasurer of the VVD department Driebergen for five years and in the national VVD he was a member of the health and environmental hygiene committees for a long time. In 1970 he was elected as a member of the Provincial States of Utrecht. He was supposed to stay until 1987. During that period he was a deputy from 1974 to 1983. In 1983 he decided to quit because he found the position no longer compatible with the First Parliamentary Membership. A year earlier, in September 1982, Mr Hofman had become a member of the First Chamber. His maiden speech held Bart Hofman in a debate on 7 December 1982 on the amendment of the Boswet, which meant that regulations for the truncation of willows "characteristic for the Dutch polder landscape" could be made and maintained by provinces and municipalities, according to Hofman. He said in the debate that the VVD Group preferred a general revision of the Forest Act. Hofman feared that municipalities and provinces would impose more rules and expressed the wish for a 'precautionary and wise' policy of local authorities to prevent those concerned from wanting to plant new trees and mutilate them after some time, so I mean that they might disappear. That could be the counterproductive effect." When smoking was still in its infancy, Bart Hofman already addressed the harmful effects of tobacco in various ways. Het Vrije Volk headlined "Artsen uit de Kamer benken smoke alarm," on 21 September 1984. Four MPs from the First and Second Chambers, including Bart Hofman, asked the Boards of both Chambers to reflect on smoking habits in the workspaces in a letter. They highlighted the extremely serious social consequences of smoking on the one hand and the role that the government can play in the fight against smoking on the other. In their letter, the MPs called smoking "a bad habit." For the same reason, a month later, on 16 October 1984, Mr Hofman, the only member of the VVD Group and together with a CDA and a D66 senator, voted against a proposal to reduce excise duty! The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation In his explanation of vote he said: "This bill discourages the policy of discouragement of the Department of Welfare, Public Health and Culture. Since I am very concerned about the good progress of this policy, I cannot give my support to this draft law." With this, Bart Hofman, together with fellow chamber members-doctors, certainly started thinking about measures to discourage smoking. Six years after his words, an amended Tobacco Act came into force in government buildings. Smoking should not be allowed in places intended for common use or accessible to the public. In 2004, every employee in the Netherlands was then entitled to a smoke-free workplace. In 1983, Bart Hofman was appointed Officer of the Order of Orange-Nassau. Bart Hofman was active in politics and public administration for many years. However, he was always a doctor and a scientist. With his knowledge and views on well-being and public health, he was one of the drivers in politics who managed to influence thinking about smoking. May our respect for his person and his merits for society and Dutch parliamentary democracy be to the support of his family and friends. I ask everyone to observe a moment's silence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-28-eerstekamer-5.u2	Thank you. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments.
