ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-4.u1	Welcome to Minister Slob, good morning. We're going to start with a VAO Parental involvement in education. First of all, I would like to give the floor to Mr Rog of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr President. We have had a good general discussion with the Minister on parental involvement, in which it became clear once again that children are flourishing in parental involvement and in which the Minister has announced a number of fine initiatives. Two elements have led my group to decide to give some additional guidance. These relate to the role of parent organisations. This is my first motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas, on the initiative of the government, a number of tasks of parent associations have been transferred to Parents & Education, but these members' associations are not currently an interlocutor with Parents & Education;]] [[whereas Parents & Education is not a member association and the Parents & Education Foundation, on the one hand, and the Parents' Associations, on the other, have very different views on the desired cooperation and an appropriate organisation and form of administration;]] [[calls on the Government to take the initiative, with due respect for the pluralism of the parent organisations and while maintaining the expertise developed, for further cooperation and appropriate organisation and form of administration, with support from both Parents & Education and the Parents' Association Balance, Parents of Value, the Public Education Association and the Reformatorial Parents' Association,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Rog, Mr Bruins, Mr Van Meenen and Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-180]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-4.u3	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the fact that the subsidy for the provision of services to parents' associations has been reduced from EUR 3 million per year with the arrival of Parents & Education to EUR 1 million per year;]] [[Furthermore, considering that, in addition to the information point 5010 and the Fit Education Support Point, there is also a need for independent knowledge, access to (regional) support and substantive advocacy;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the adequacy of the subsidy for the services provided by the parent organisations and to inform the Court thereof in the autumn, prior to the OCW budget treatment for the year 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Rog, Mr Bruins and Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35000-VIII-181]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-4.u4	Mr. Chairman. I don't have any motions, but I do have a story about parent involvement and even grandparent involvement. This morning I was allowed to bring my granddaughter back to school under steam and boiling water. You know what it's like. Then you get there in that world of very busy parents that you wish they could be very involved in their school. During the general consultation I also outlined the development of this parent involvement in the last century: from the parents who were really in charge of the school, especially education, to people who were employed as carpenters and lice fathers. You actually see a kind of, I call it, infantilization of parent involvement. I would like to say to the Minister: let us try to find our way back to the real influence of parents at school. That is actually what I would like to ask him, because you know it yourself, President-in-Office of the Council, the parents in the Netherlands are very busy and if they give their precious time to that which is dearest to them and shows their involvement in school, let them really matter. I'd like to give that to the Minister. I can't wait to see how he's gonna react to that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-4.u5	Thank you. I'm looking at the minister. The motions will be distributed and then he will be able to respond to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-4.u6	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the Chamber for the good discussions we have had on this important subject and also for the input into this VAO. Two motions have been tabled. First of all, Mr Rog's motion asking the cabinet to take the initiative for further cooperation and appropriate form of organisation and administration that is supported by both parents and education. A number of other parent organisations are mentioned. It is recognizable that this motion has been tabled. I do not recommend the motion, but we have discussed it extensively during the general consultation. The Chamber is also aware that Parents & Education is now also in the process of further reviewing governance and in consultation with these organisations to see how they can get a place there. In this respect, therefore, the petitioner and the co-signator are already being served. The subject is already taken up in this way. That happens at the place where it's supposed to happen. That is, I think, also in a good Christian-democratic tradition. I'm following this, of course. I will ask the Parents & Education Foundation to inform me about the progress of this. I'll direct that further to the Chamber. That way we can keep our finger on the wrist. So I dissuade the motion, but the content is being taken further at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-4.u7	Mr Rog's first motion is not recommended. Mr. Rog?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-4.u8	If that's all right with you, Mr President, I'm still trying to change the Minister's mind about his appreciation. He says there are conversations going on. That is true, but the reason we are now tabling this motion is that the government, the previous cabinet, has made an intervention that has led to only one point of contact and that there is much disrespect between the underlying organisations. Parental associations traditionally are not even partners of Parents & Education. I really think that we, as a government, have a responsibility to ensure that this happens. I am not saying exactly how the Minister should do that, but I would imagine that he would allow someone to explore it and that he would enter into the conversation. Would he be willing to do that? And could he come to another appreciation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-4.u9	I have already indicated that Parents & Education is also now looking at governance and, in particular, at the representation of these organisations, including in the work they do. Among other things, consideration is being given to a wider parental council that will also accommodate these parent organisations. In that respect it is just moving and it also happens at the place where it is supposed to happen. I undertake to inform the House of the progress of these talks and the conclusions to be drawn there. But I'm not going to take the initiative. That is really something that needs to be done in that organisation itself. And that's already happening.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-4.u10	Sometimes you hang on to something your predecessor did wrong. In the past, that is the mistake Mr Rog has pointed out. In the context of the austerity, we have said that we are moving to one organisation. It has not come, at least it has, but a number of other organisations have continued to exist. That one organization got the grant. I can still justify all that, but what I think is really crazy is that the government hasn't talked to the other organizations since then. In this sense, I believe that the Minister has a responsibility to break it down. For there is a multitude of sounds and they may be heard. Surely that should appeal to this minister. So my question to the Minister is: does he open up the lines with the other organisations, perhaps even in anticipation of what is going to happen now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-4.u11	Mr Van Meenen's contribution amazes me a little bit. I'm thinking about the space that would be there to talk to. I have made it very clear in general consultation that I am open to speaking with all organisations, even if organisational choices have been made which make things more centralised. I mentioned the example of the sectoral councils. There are also a lot of organisations with a certain identity that have disappeared out of sight. They're at my table all the time, too. In fact, even today I have a meeting with them on my agenda. These elderly organisations are also welcome if they want to have a conversation with me. I'll meet them in different places, too. I also come to meetings which are organised by them, including on the subject of parental involvement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-4.u12	That is, of course, good to hear, but I am also talking about this particular issue. Is only Parents & Education the partner when it comes to how this cooperation is implemented? Or are the organisations also welcome to join the minister, if only as a kind of mediator? Because in the end, the minister is the one who sends with money.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-4.u13	As I promised the Chamber, I am now following the developments regarding the change of governance at Parents & Education. If that gets stuck in some way and if anyone wants to report to me, the door is open. Then I want to talk to them, too. I hope, of course, that this will find its way forward in a good way. Moreover, I have indicated to the Chamber in a broad sense that I would also like to discuss the subject of parental involvement on a somewhat larger stage. Parents & Education is involved, and as far as I'm concerned these other organizations can just get a place there. Because it's really worth it that we're getting together on this in a good way. I say the following in relation to Mr Van Meenen's question: in view of the fact that parents are very busy with a lot of things and the fact that a lot of them are being asked, it is even more important to look at how your parents can still give the place they deserve in this changing society in the school. I think that can only make a school better. As far as I am concerned, this is a permanent item on the agenda. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 181 is about finance. The Chamber knows that there has been an evaluation of the first period, in which the budget has indeed fallen considerably. But the conclusion of the evaluation was that, despite the fact that there was less money, it was possible to get away with it in a very good way, including with regard to the tasks that were there. So I advise against this motion. Of course, it is always the case that if there is more money, more things can be done. However, within the framework of the tasks agreed and the money made available, the evaluation does not give rise to any further research.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-4.u14	The motion in part No. 181 is not recommended. Then there was a question from Mr Van Meenen, but you have actually already answered it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-4.u15	I did take it with me at the motion in part No. 180.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-4.u16	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-15-tweedekamer-4.u17	This brings us to the end of this VAO.
