ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u1	The next item is the progress of legislative proposals 33996, Amendment of the Gaming Act, the Gaming Tax Act and some other laws relating to the organisation of remote gambling, and 34471, Amendment of the Gaming Act related to the modernisation of the Gaming Casino regime.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u2	I give the floor to the Minister for Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u3	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much and also thank Members for their input. Today we are talking about the legislative proposals on distance gambling, short of KOA, and the modernisation of the game casino regime. I would like to start with the bill KOA which makes it possible, under strict conditions, to offer online gambling under a Dutch license. Actually, this is a bill that responds to very rapid developments in digitalisation. You could say that the Internet has changed our lives on many fronts. We bank online, we book our holidays online, we order our messages online, and so does gambling. More and more people are gambling online. Through the internet you can participate in games of chance without any kind of personal contact. That game is offered at any place. Taking part in these games of chance is also not bound by national boundaries. So it happens simply also from the Netherlands. We see that the number of Dutch participants in these games of chance is considerable. That number is also rising. Depending on the research you're looking at, it's half a million to one and a half million players. And all those thousands of online gaming players in the Netherlands depend on illegality. You could say: without them perhaps being aware of it. I am thinking for a moment of Mr. Postema's class. They now have no protection under Dutch laws and regulations. That is worrying, because it is precisely these games of chance that involve so many risks. Players are at risk of becoming victims of gambling addiction, match fixing, scams and other forms of fraud. We also know that there is a serious risk of money laundering in illegal gambling. Without knowing, Dutch players contribute to this. The current Gambling Act does not now provide for a remote gambling licensing system that regulates this type of gambling. You could say that parties offering remote gambling in the Netherlands automatically break the law. Meanwhile, bona fide Dutch land-based licence holders, parties that would like to comply with the law, are out of play. They are increasingly exposed to competition from illegal supply, but are not yet able to obtain a licence. The supervisor, the enforcer, the Ksa, lacks the tools needed to act decisively against illegality and players are at great risk. The Tax Office, which charges gambling tax for the state treasury, looks at all this with sad eyes. Every year, millions of dollars are lost in income. When I listen to this debate in this way, I believe that everyone agrees that this is no longer sustainable, that what needs to be done and that doing nothing is not an option. But then what? I have a number of groups which prefer to focus mainly or perhaps exclusively on the intensification of enforcement. With more powers and with more capacity, the Ksa could or should make a fist to keep the illegal offer out of the door. Mr. Chairman. I do not think that scenario is real, because with the new powers too, part of the legislative proposal before us, it will prove impossible to maintain that illegal offer effectively. That has to do with a number of things. The number of providers is simply too large. And if you press anything on it, the Ksa sees it as well, then you see a new offer elsewhere. Offering online gambling is particularly lucrative. If we make a bit of an assessment of the current illegal market, we are talking about some 275 million in gross play results. It is therefore always attractive for providers to go back on that illegal path. Enforcement is also complicated in the international context, complex in business cultures, it is shady, there are stromans... and therefore time-consuming and labour-intensive. So it's impossible to get it completely conclusive. We have to face the fact that there is also a question. Many players will also not stop playing due to that enforcement, even if you maintain very hard. If we don't regulate it, they'll keep looking for new ways to play again. Mr. Chairman. The complexity of enforcement is not involved in detecting it. The Ksa has a very clear picture of the currently illegal offer. The complexity lies in the enforcement itself. This is made difficult by some of the factors I have just mentioned. International cooperation is also complicated. A number of groups have asked questions about this. Member States are free in Europe to define their own gambling policies. So what is illegal in the Netherlands is not necessarily illegal in another Member State. In fact, when it comes to channeling and regulating supply, we see that many of the countries around us are already many times further, which also increases the pressure on the Netherlands. I am also saying this in the direction of Mrs Strik, who made the comparison with the possible legalisation of soft drugs. There is, of course, a slightly different context, although we are going to see whether other ways of working might be better in this area by means of pilots. But these soft drugs are currently banned in other countries in Europe. This is a different situation from that of online gambling, for which a number of steps have been taken in the neighbourhood to legalise and regulate it. This does not mean that cooperation cannot be achieved, but it is done on the basis of so-called letters or intent, on the basis of mutual agreements. Then you can see that the systems are not always very well connected. Mr. Chairman. I'm just saying it's not a lack of effort. That was suggested by a few. Mrs Bikker said: shouldn't we just work a little harder, be maintained a little harder; then you can still contain it? I don't think that's a real picture. If you don't do something about channeling, then even the additional enforcement measures in this bill just complicate it. There have been successes. Almost 2 million fines have been imposed in the last year. The year before, 1 million fines were imposed. It has been possible to remove gokaps from the appstores. But we see that if there is not a regulated and reliable form of offer, players will find illegal offers again by other means.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u4	The Minister spoke of my words as if I had said: shouldn't we be working a little harder? It suggests that I would have said that the work was not done well by the people who were there. That wasn't my judgment. My question was more: have we put enough effort on it? Then that is a question to the legislator and to the government, but not to the Gaming Authority. It is not about the work done by the people of the Gaming Authority, because I do not want to judge that at the moment, except, of course, that they will have worked to the best of their ability. So I would like to ask the Minister whether we could have been more focused on this, also in order to be able to intervene more firmly in certain developments, such as games and gambling.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u5	What I mean by "working harder" is actually more: shouldn't we have put more capacity on it? That is the political choice we, I think, make in this house partly on my side of the line. I think the real story is that of course you could have done more or that you could have put even more enforcement capacity on that. We could even have thought about giving more instruments to the Ksa, because that is what we are actually doing with this bill. But it is not real to say that it could have closed the leak, because we see that there is a demand and players, even in the countries around us where there is now a regulated supply, are inventive and always find new ways to get back to those providers. Some providers know, if you press somewhere, to find a new way to start a new site or app on that infinite internet. Even with the most intensive form of enforcement, I don't think you can eliminate illegal offer. Mr. Chairman. In my view, therefore, in addition to strict enforcement, there is also a need for a legal and regulated alternative. A lot of research shows that players of online chance games also have a preference for legal offerings. That touches on Mrs Van Bijsterveld's question: what makes you believe that if there is legal supply next to illegal supply, people will go there? Research shows that there is a preference for this. So I do expect those steps to be made. Legal offer reduces participation in the illegal offer. In other words, the market for illegal providers will be reduced if there is a reliable legal offer. This will also make the enforcement of the remaining part of the "unlawful' section more effective. You could compare it to the problems we had years ago with, for example, the illegal download. That too was done and it was also said: is it legal or illegal? It happened on a large scale. It was pressed from different instances to prevent it, but you saw that it was only effective when there were recently legal alternatives to download movies and music. Then you see that the users are best prepared to pay a little for that legal offer. And you can see that the illegal part is reduced and decreased. Mr. Chairman. I have to conclude that the number of online players is increasing. Mrs Bikker also points that out. In the Netherlands, the market is growing, but by the way, as fast as in countries that have regulated gambling. So it is not the result of regulation, but it is an autonomous development with that shift at all towards online.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u6	I had also asked if the Minister had any indications that there is a relationship between legalization and an increase in gambling.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u7	I'll get to that in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u8	Okay, fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u9	This is the thought behind the bill, the policy theory. But is it going to work in practice now? Of course: the proof of the pudding is in the eating. Regulate, channel and maintain; it will have to prove itself in practice. Although I cannot name a minimum effective channelization rate, I say in the direction of Mrs Strik, there is a good indication of success. We have always said that we can legally channel some 70%-80% of demand, which also reduces the share of players in the illegal domain. Mr. Chairman. How can we be so sure this is going to work? I had some scepticism with Mrs Van Bijsterveld. This bill has taken some time. This is annoying on the one hand, but it has the advantage that we now know how measures have worked out in countries around us. In a number of countries the market has been very successfully channeled, but in a number of countries it has been less successful. If you look at Denmark, for example, that has gone pretty well. Like this bill, the Danish law also has a system of open permits. All games that meet the conditions may be offered in Denmark; this also corresponds to the KOA Bill. In Denmark, a channelization rate of about 90% has finally been achieved. The Belgian system also has many providers and a wide range of games. 80% of the market has now been channeled there. But we also see countries where things have gone less well, for example Norway, where it has remained at about 30%. This means that 70% of users are still served by illegal providers. If we look at exactly what that is, it has to do with a limited offer. On the one hand, Norway regulates only part of online gambling, which prevents many table games from being played online. Players find ways on the Internet to illegal providers. In addition, Norway has a government monopoly, so there is not much choice between one provider and another. That's our analysis of why it didn't work out so well there. The lesson we can learn from this is that canalisation is possible when we provide an attractively licensed alternative, which is responsible and reliable. This is mainly created by giving the player sufficient choice between different types of game and different providers. The number of licences is therefore not limited. We're assuming from about 40 to 45, but the practice will have to prove that. The same applies in principle to the game offer. This is in response to Mrs Bikker. Only regulating one game, for example poker, is not enough in my view. We also see that poker has fallen in popularity in recent years and that sports betting is increasing again. That's why we're betting on a wide palette.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u10	What exactly is the situation in Norway? You point out two factors that could have led to that relatively low channelization rate: the number of providers and the supply itself. Have you been able to estimate the weights of those two factors?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u11	I think it's in the combination. If there is one provider, players will look for more variation at some point, so actually substitution. If there's only one provider, you'll automatically get to another, non-legalized offer. But when it comes to a limited number of games, one will look for online offers for occasional bets on a football match, but another can be stolen soccer matches; he prefers to put a ticket and thus wants to play poker. If you only make some of the games available, which has been the case in Norway, then you miss a very large part of the interested players, because there is nothing for them to offer at all. So I think it's in those two.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u12	It could very well be in the two. I also think it is important, from the point of view of policy theory, to get a good grip on this. In that theory, I could imagine the hypothesis that the game offering is the most important factor in this. And that providers, even if there is only one or a few, can offer a very differentiated game offer and offer all kinds of products with their own look and feel, so that the player gets to his or her liking. It's not something to have tested tonight, but it's about me being that the offer is especially important. It's not about the player's perspective on how many providers they are and that this is reliable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u13	We haven't worked this out to the depths. It's Norway. We must rely on available reports. At least they show that a combination of the two has led to a lower channelization rate. I can also imagine that, if there are more providers, it will be more interesting to keep your offer attractive. One says: I prefer this more, or prefer it more. The combination, therefore, that there is not one provider that is the only legalised provider that feels little incentive to renew or to respond to needs and new offers, nevertheless matters. These open systems, where there is a choice for the consumer, even when it comes to one and the same type of game, are ultimately worth a few dozen percentage points. There is then a large difference between 30% and 70% or 80%. In Denmark it is even 90%. So it's a summing up of those cases. Mrs Strik asked if we have learned from the other countries when it comes to suction. Oh, yes, I do. If I look at the package that we are laying down in relation to Belgium, Italy or Denmark, then at the start of the opening of the market we are a lot stricter, on two fronts, both in terms of how advertising can be used and I shall come back to that, but also in terms of prevention policy. That is far more stringent than ever before in those countries. We can also learn from how a number of Member States in Europe have achieved a certain form of channeling and learn from preventing unwanted side effects. I am thinking of an aggressive approach to players or a huge increase in the market, with all the problems that this entails.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u14	If we would like to learn those lessons from other countries, it is also good to look at what Denmark, for example, has done when banning illegal supply. I would ask the Minister to go into depth with regard to the possibilities in Denmark, for example with regard to blocking sites. What teeth does our Game Authority have?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u15	I have a more extensive block to deal with later on, with the various enforcement options. The Internet blockade is also discussed. One more thing in advance, before I go into depth with regard to licensing, supervision and enforcement. It's about the charities. What exactly do we need to think of online gambling, has been asked in this house In this bill we also want to see the positive side that is part of it. A number of organisations also receive contributions from the lotteries or the Toto for charity in sport and the cultural sector. We find these contributions valuable. It is not for nothing that we have said that everything we do now must not lead to this payment being affected. In the run-up to the KOA bill, the merger between the Lotto and the Staatslottery has created a solid organisation NLO for the future. The benefits of lotteries benefit from a strong market party. I also see opportunities with the legislative proposal to strengthen the lotteries, including by protecting them from improper competition from KOA licence holders. There is a strict separation between high-risk gambling on the one hand and lotteries on the other. It is prohibited to offer lotteries with a COA licence. It's gonna be a firmer divorce. Nor is the use of the name "lottery" for games offered under a COA licence allowed; thus no unfair competition. The country-based sports competitions offered by the NNO under the Toto already face competition from illegal online offerings. The illegal providers have a more attractive playing offer than the NLO, for example by offering live bets. The Toto's payments to Dutch sport are therefore under pressure. If the KOA bill enters into force, online sports competitions will be covered by the KOA and the NLO can expand its offer under this regime. This is also one of the reasons why the NLO, but also the organisations to which it pays off, for example NOC*NSF, are in principle in favour of this bill. The delay in the KAA bill has led to an increase in gambling tax to 30.1%. That is not in the long term in the interests of lotteries, because it is at the expense of the prize pool. With the entry into force of the bill, the percentage can be reduced again. The Secretary of State will say something about this later. Finally, I would like to adjust the compulsory rates of payment. We see that medium-sized lotteries are struggling. In the changing market and the changing gaming landscape, they are unable to meet the game wishes of this time. In order to enable innovation in this sector, we reduce the rate of payment, and they have promised to keep actual payments to the good cause. The Good Goals Platform, the defender of lottery beneficiaries, also supports this measure. We think this is gonna work. This has been done in the past, from 60% to 50%. This could then also be done by maintaining the total payment. Mr Ten Hoeve asked whether the law COA would compensate for any reduction in the payment. Not in the base. There are a number of buttons on it, in the sense of some kind of emergency lever. If it all turns out to be different than planned, something can be done about it in the future, but the essence of my speech is that I do not expect any substitution. The bill strengthens the basis for the lottery.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u16	I don't quite understand the pronunciation about the lotteries. The contribution rate goes down from 50% to 40%, but the organisations have promised to keep these payments up to date. This automatically means that this must come from an increase in the number of lots sold. That conclusion is justified, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u17	Yeah, that's right. As a result, they expect to have a larger base, allowing the total payment to remain the same. This has also happened in the past with the reduction from 60% to 50%. The target sector has not experienced any negative effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u18	The Minister has now answered the specific questions. I would like to dwell on the more general block. The Minister uses a lot of words to explain to us how necessary it is that the legal offer is attractive, that it is wide, varied and diverse, otherwise we will not empty the illegal circuit, simply put. Can the Minister say a few words about this? How does this relate to the policy's objective of combating gamble and play? That dilemma, can the Minister say anything about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u19	Mr Van Dijk is talking about gamble. We want to ensure that players can play responsibly, that there is supervision and that they do not end up in criminal circuits. By offering a regulated alternative, which is closely monitored, with strict requirements regarding addiction prevention and the reliability of providers, we create a situation in which to play, in a way that is intended to be recreational. Of course, we do everything we can to prevent problematic playing behavior. There are also many ways to ensure that this is followed and that intervention is taken, or even that players can be excluded in the most extreme case. But once in a while we allow ourselves to gamble, buy a ticket or play a game of chance on the internet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u20	Clear: in principle, we allow that, but we oppose playfulness, or whatever you want to call it. In any case, a lost gamble is not the intention. That's at least at odds with the description "I almost got warmed up about how wide and diverse the offer should be to clear out the illegal circuit." Isn't that just a little bit: want to blow and then keep the flour in the mouth? It seems to me a very difficult task.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u21	I can also see the tension immediately. Those are the dilemmas we are dealing with here. Of course, there is also a risk that, if you regulate your offer, the number of players may increase. The organizations for addiction care are also very keen on this, for example. They say: you must follow that very closely. We have also agreed to do so. The alternative, not doing anything, is perhaps many times worse. We see that there is now an illegal market, which is growing and growing, where Dutch players are handed over without any supervision to providers we do not know about, where there is no intervention, where there is no work on addiction prevention and where there may be a contribution to money laundering and so on. If I were to weigh those two against each other, I would prefer to say: let's see if we can provide a regulated offer with reliable players. Then you can intervene if things go wrong. Then you can set a lot of high demands on providers. That's better than being 100% illegal right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u22	I always like to debate with open eyes. Then let's do it here. I think the Minister and I agree that the current situation is not a good one. We clearly disagree on the approach, but I have to agree with Mr Van Dijk when he says that there is a minister here who is happy to tell us how there will be a fantastic gambling opportunity for anyone who can just take a chance and make use of it. That is another starting point that my group and its group have. We say that it may not be wise to do so, because that leads to chunks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u23	I hear Mrs Gerkens say this. It may be a difference with predecessors of mine: I don't have that much to do with games of chance myself, but I am concerned about the negative aspects. I also see an increase in the hand of an illegal market, in which thousands of Dutch players go into illegal supply unprotected, far from ideal. Then I'm gonna let a lot of people catch up with me, to whom I ask: how can you turn that around as well as possible? They say: if you provide a regulated offer, make sure that there is something to choose. Then make sure it has a certain attractiveness. There's a lot of tension on that. I can see that right away. But if I have to choose, I would prefer to opt for a situation where we have strictly regulated offers, which we are very keen on and which we will continue to follow very closely, so that we can also take tough action against those who are later illegal. I'm sure we'll be more effective. I'd rather do that than say we're trying to banish it altogether. In fact, we know in advance that it is not going to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u24	As usual, as is often the case with allowing debates on things to take place until the market, there is still a whole alphabet between A and Z, and we are still talking about two extremes. The Minister has been briefed, but I do not know if he has heard any other noises. In any case, I have heard this from other colleagues: you could at least act a lot more reluctantly, for example by not allowing advertising, for example by maintaining it hard. You could try that first and then see what's left and what you'd still have to offer, and if that's still necessary. Because it's absolutely true: I have to enter the word "gambling" on Google and I can choose from I-don't-know-what. Which, to put it mildly, is quite strange, because you should be able to eliminate that. You can do that, and we can do that with other things. You know that as well as I do. So once again, I think there are still a lot of possibilities between A and Z, in which the Minister chooses differently from my group and other groups. That sounds like a perverse incentive to gamble.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u25	We can have a discussion about the latter, but it may of course be that we have a difference of opinion. I'll find out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u26	The Minister clearly explains that by definition everyone who gambles online is playing illegally. That's gonna go hand-to-hand. Can he zoom in on addiction rates? I was actually disappointed with what we had on current figures, I must add. But the most recent reports show a fairly consistent line. When we look at Spain, Germany and Denmark, where the market opened up, we see the addiction getting worse. That really is an effect of regulating and allowing online gambling. Can the Minister zoom in with numbers on the addiction in the Netherlands, now and in recent years, and on the difference with countries where the regulation has already taken place?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u27	I think those numbers were mentioned by the spokesmen. I'm not gonna fight that one. Then you're talking about some 100,000 risk cases and about 80,000 problems. That's a little fluctuating over time. We see in a number of countries that have begun to regulate that this has increased somewhat, but they have not taken such stringent preventive measures in advance. I dare say that we will soon be leading Europe in dealing with addiction-related or preventive gambling, with all the obligations we impose on legal providers. I mention the obligation to work with a care coordinator, to work with CRUKS, to inform, to intervene where, based on playing behavior, you see it going in the wrong direction and to exclude players if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u28	I am pleased that the Dutch Government is taking up its responsibilities and wants to take it further. I have even read the coalition agreement in agreement on that point. But we're making the offer legal, where it's actually still illegal. That's a difference in incentive that's just gonna lure more people into it. That's one. The second is that we say all the time: if people start playing legally, they're gonna be okay. Then I will come back to that other point, namely: how do we keep the illegal offer under control? For that, this bill offers very little, especially if you look at how you block things. So the Minister cannot convince me yet that if this law is introduced, there will be no other effect on the number of addicts, which is actually still fluctuating. But that's his conviction, if I understand correctly. So when we get that evaluation, it's gonna stay the way it is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u29	In fact, I hope that we can reduce this, because some of those who are addicted to illegal gambling are now addicted to illegal gambling, which we cannot see and where we have no instruments to intervene properly. If there is a shift to legal offers, I think this can also have a positive effect. At the same time, and I'm not going to beat around the bush, you'll also see with a legal offer that people who aren't currently playing illegal are probably gonna take a guess. So we have to be very, very sharp on that. You can see that online play is increasing, also in the Netherlands, where we are dealing with illegal offer. This will also have a provocative effect on players who are at risk of becoming addicted to these games of chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u30	As the Minister said earlier, we are going to do things differently from other countries. We have learned from the way things have been in other countries, so we have a firmer policy. Can the Minister explain why he is not proposing to introduce an advertising ban at the same time? It is precisely in Belgium and Italy that you see what practices that leads to, which are almost certainly having a stimulating effect in use. Then why don't we learn that lesson and do it differently?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u31	We're doing things a little differently, too. I will say something about advertising later, because there is another dilemma in this regard. You want to attract players to legal, regulated offers, but then they need to know it's there. So you have to make sure that players are reminded that there is an alternative available, but in a way that is not aggressive and not aimed at young people. We have learned from Belgium, for example, that we impose much stricter requirements in advance on the way in which advertising is regulated. Belgium is now repairing certain things that we already have in it, some years after that. And on a number of levels, they're just moving on. But there they are in a different situation: 80% of the supply has now been channeled. Soon, in a new market, we will have to ensure that players who are still playing games of chance with illegal providers across national borders are somehow reminded that there is also a legal, regulated and reliable provider in the Netherlands. And then you should, be careful, give some space for advertising.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u32	The minister just indicated that there might be a little more users coming to the legal offer. But then they move from illegal to legal, so to speak. Can he shed some light on that? Has there been any research into the extent to which legalization is attracting new people, which is why the use is going to increase, whether by advertising or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u33	That's what I just meant to say with that I'm not going to go around. I'm guessing that effect is gonna happen. At the same time, with those legal providers you have much more opportunities to make sure that playing with those new players remains a bit fun, that it is a recreational way of playing. You will then have instruments to intervene if it becomes very problematic. So I think we can attract a large part of that illegal market to legal offers. I think that is a good thing, at least a large part of the Chamber thinks that is a good thing. If there is a regulated legal offer, there may also be an attraction for new players who are not now playing illegally, but then discover that it is clearly possible and allowed and decide to play anyway. However, it is all in an environment that has much more regard for the risks of gambling than is currently the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u34	I myself have been questioned in the first period about the usefulness and necessity of advertising in this area. That's what I've related to the channeling needs myself. At the same time, I would like to inform the Minister that there is, of course, a distinction between advertising and information to the public, and that the latter is incredibly important in the context of the introduction of the new law. I mentioned that example of those students. But of course we all know this in our environment: what do we really know about it, that it really isn't allowed? If we have had such a half-tolerance policy, as in recent years, then it will be really complicated for the consumer. So I think there should be some kind of reset of what is legal and what is absolutely not legal, on the part of the provider and on the side of the player. That in the first place. Secondly, the current proposal takes a number of measures, for example, that no advertising will take place before 7 p.m. My question is: is that really tested by the users? We all know that the young adults don't go to sleep after the Fabeltjeskrant. But how was that actually tested?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u35	That's what we talked about with Ksa. What is reasonable and workable now? Then you look at time slots. This is now also being applied to the programming of certain programmes after certain times. It looked at what young people and young adults are sensitive to. Think, for example, of excluding individual sponsorship, where idols are used, sponsored by gaming providers. We have said that this is too attractive. But what will we allow? Like shirtsponsoring or something. Lotteries are already doing that: look at the sport. That's a form in which you give space to providers to show that they're there, without turning it into some sort of totem pole. Come and join us here and it'll be a huge attraction for vulnerable young people. I think that a good balance has been struck with this whole set of measures: with window times, with what is and cannot be done, with the requirement that advertising should not be directed at young people and with the space that the Ksa has to test properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u36	I do have an eye for what the Minister says when he argues that we need to show that we have new legal providers. On the other hand, I understand the concerns expressed by Mr Strik, Mr Van Dijk and Mr Gerkens that advertising is ultimately causing problems in other countries. Are we going to evaluate sometime? I would suggest that we look very strongly at this. Isn't there perhaps a time in a shorter period? Then we can say: we now have a set-up market and we need to see how we proceed with advertising.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u37	We have said that we will evaluate this law after three years. In fact, I do not think it would be wise to leave it all open in the near future and then to stick it in for the first time after three years. When it comes to the number of permits issued, the number of players, I think that monitoring could be much tighter. I can imagine that I will inform the two chambers annually about the steps that are being taken. I think we have now found a good balance in the bill, but the buttons you can also turn on to fine tune throughout the process are also included. If you'd like to do something extra on advertising, you can do it over time. If we see that the payments to charities are developing something different than we expect, there is a button in it to add an extra storage. Many of these things have been worked out in lower regulation. So that can also be introduced faster than after I have to come back to you to amend the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u38	Can I interpret that as an undertaking that we will look on an annual basis at how this role of advertising is part of the problem here?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u39	Actually, I'd like to go wider. I would not just like to look at advertising, but also more broadly at the number of players, the number of licences issued and the development of the market.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u40	When it comes to advertising, I mainly come across things about television. This minister isn't from 19-Noah. He's even had media in his wallet before and he knows very well that TV isn't the thing among young people anymore. What restrictive measures are being taken when it comes to online content that young people constantly view, whether it is YouTube or other channels?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u41	If you would like to know very specifically, I would like to come back to it in the second term, but there too, we are looking at certain platforms and certain times. Of course, you can regulate that somewhat.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u42	Then I would also like to know in the second term what the basis for enforcement is, and rather in the first term. As far as television is concerned, I have seen the amendment tabled by Members of Parliament. I can still judge that, but at least there is something there. But I didn't see anything online. Then I wonder: where do you base yourself on and what can you then maintain as a government?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u43	I'd like to get back to that in second term. We're gonna go into the tech a lot, and I'd like to get it right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u44	The Minister gives high priority to the preventive measures taken by the government to prevent gambling addiction and expanding gambling addiction. I would very much like to hear from the Minister what his goals are. It is good that after three years there will be an evaluation and a mid-term evaluation, but what can he promise us here and now, so that we can look into that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u45	Affordable targets: we have all said that this means that we intend to get a larger proportion of those who are now playing illegally, towards regulated, reliable, legal offerings. Then, for example, we are talking about channelization. We are now assuming 70% to 80%, so that is something we are watching closely. We have said that we do not want the group of problem players to increase. So that's what we're trying to make clear. If that were the case, then of course we have a conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u46	At what time does the Minister intend to see an increase in the number of problem players? And in what ways does he intend to intervene? It is good for us not only to see an evaluation: yes, indeed, the number of problem players has increased more than we had hoped, but to really point out that this did not go well in other countries and we have preventive measures here. That's what I hear the Minister say. As far as I am concerned, there are goals that can be taken into account, so that you can say: if there are more than so many percent more problem players, then we are going to do this and that. That's what we'd like to know, at least I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u47	I have just indicated that we are going to monitor this very closely, as far as I am concerned, and that I try to come back every year with figures about players, numbers of players, as far as I am concerned, the risk groups, permits, you name it all. So then we really keep our finger on the wrist and when we say: things happen that we didn't foresee beforehand and that are undesirable, then you have ways to intervene.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u48	The minister just said he wants to return to the advertising on the Internet in the second term. I would ask him to do so in the first place, because that depends on how I set up my second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u49	Yeah, but I really don't have that here. I shall come back to that in the second term. More generally, it may also be possible in the first term. But they asked exactly what exactly is being done on the Internet. Then I want to answer that question exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u50	Mr President, I find this really unacceptable. We're in the middle of a debate here. These are questions that have been asked before. Depends on whether I'm gonna file a motion or another party's gonna file a motion. I would say: ask your colleagues above, the officials, to look up these matters as quickly as possible. I'd like an answer in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u51	That's what I'm gonna give you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u52	Here we go. Freudian slip. First term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u53	So it had to be a first term. Yes. Mr. Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u54	Maybe I can try a little more general and that's suitable for the first term. Let's get back to the commercial. I also understand from the Minister's words that a ban on advertising online gambling is currently being considered seriously in Belgium. What does that mean? Isn't that easy to join, just to identify within a few months what such a ban means, what its consequences are? Then we can make a good assessment of how logical advertising for online gambling and such is at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u55	The starting position in Belgium is really a different one, because Belgium has a regulated market for a number of years, with about 80% of the players using the offer of legal providers. So what you see now is that Belgium is taking a number of measures to put the rules on advertising at about the level that we also envisage in this bill. On a number of points, they may go a step further. My only reservation is that we are at a point where we still have 0% players who use legal offer and that we also need to give the providers a little space to show the public: look, we are there, we are reliable, we have offer, you can come to us. If we reduce this very much in advance, it will have enormous consequences for the canalisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u56	The Minister has just made a commitment to send annual reports on the development of the market and the increase in the market and/or decrease, but I expect it to be an increase of problem players, addicts and so on. The Minister added the remark: then we can also see how we can act on it. My question is what specific ways the Minister can intervene if this development is undesirable, without amending the law. So what specific buttons does he have to turn on without us changing the law?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u57	Let me mention a few. A lot of advertising around is lower regulation. I just gave you an advance on how we're about going to do that, but that's a button you could still do something about. Much of the development of addiction policy, prevention policy, is lower laws and regulations. If you say: it's not going in the right direction, then you could put a shovel on top of that. For example, if you look at donations to charities, there is a button in the law that we don't use right now, which introduces an extra storage to also make a payment to third parties. These are three examples of buttons, in my opinion, on themes that are very important to you all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u58	Thanks to the Minister. Actually, I meant it a little more concrete. The minister says: okay, you can do something about advertising in lower regulation or other ways to limit addiction. Does that mean, for example, banning advertising? That's one. Does it mean, for example, setting a maximum playing ceiling for all players? Or does it mean, for example, that once involuntaryly excluded, is always involuntaryly excluded? These are a number of very concrete things. Or does it simply make the thresholds for registration more difficult, so that people might go back to the illegal offer more quickly? I would ask you to first of all have a little insight into its real effectiveness, but as I said in my first term, you can also see that there can be some kind of waterbed effect. The harder, the more difficult and the more prevention comes on the legal offer, the easier you go back to the illegal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u59	Many of the examples given by Mrs Van Bijsterveld can be regulated in lower regulations. I don't know if it applies to all of them, but it does for a lot of people. But she immediately exposes the dilemma. If you raise the thresholds there, so stricter requirements on advertising, a scoop or two on top of additional prevention policies, raise the threshold to achieve legal offers at all, additional payments, the point Mr Ten Hoeve asked for... It can all be done, but it will also have an effect on your channelization rate, because with a higher payment there is less left to pay out prices, and that is also something people are sensitive to when they participate. If you raise the threshold to join at all, if it takes longer or if it gets more complicated, some players will be tempted to seek alternative, illegal offers. If you apply the stricter requirements to advertising, the reputation of legal providers among the Dutch population will be reduced, which also has an effect on channeling. So those buttons are in there, but those buttons always work both ways. Mr. Chairman. I come to the issue of licensing, because that is actually at the heart of the online gambling system.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u60	Mr Ten Hoeve last on this point, because I do think that the Minister should now be given the opportunity to deal with his response a little bit more accurately. Yeah? Now for a brief moment, one interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u61	With these last remarks, I have the feeling that we are moving in a circular direction. When do we need additional measures? If there is a risk of going wrong with this legalization, when it leads to more addictions. Then what we can do is make it so much harder for people to go back to the illegal offer. Aren't we in the middle of turning our eyes on ourselves?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u62	No, I don't think so. We're sitting here thinking all kinds of dance scenarios. Let's go back to the thought and the core behind this bill. This is because if you do it this way, we expect it to be possible to channel 70% to 80% of the players to reliable, legal offerings, making the remaining 20% easier and more effective, allowing us to do more about prevention and so on. The only point I wanted to make is that, of course, it is a political choice to use the buttons on which you can turn, on advertising or on prevention policy. By the way, we are already very strict about this, if I compare it with many countries around us. Of course, it is a political choice to step up, but I would like to point out that this will reduce the attractiveness of that legal offer, and that the share that is playing illegally will continue to increase. And I believe that a larger share of legal offers, well controlled and regulated, with tight supervision and a good prevention offer, will ultimately benefit, and benefit that vulnerable Dutch player. Mr. Chairman. I'd come out with the permits. Questions have been asked about this, also in relation to the Bouwmeester motion. What exactly are licence applicants supposed to comply with? In the first place, an authorisation holder should be appropriate. He must be able to meet the requirements of the Dutch system. For example, it looks at finance, how it is organized and so on. But this isn't enough. The authorisation holder must also be reliable. He must show that he wants to meet the Dutch requirements. This automatically brings us to the Bouwmeester motion; I believe that all the spokesmen have already referred to it. Will illegal operators be eligible for a licence, and will they be eligible for it? Let me be clear: here again we are dealing with a dilemma. On the one hand, I agree with the speakers from various groups that it cannot be the case that years of illegal offer remain without consequences and that illegal offer is actually rewarded with a Dutch licence. On the other hand, I want to protect the Dutch player, and that can only be done in an authorised system. Now, among the current illegal providers, there are also parties that are able, and also have the willingness to comply with the Dutch requirements. In the end, the protection of the player can also be better secured. Many other Member States have chosen, for example, to grant a direct licence to illegal parties, because this is happening very quickly for channeling. The risk of players sticking around in the illegal circuit is different. This dilemma therefore involves the fact that a very strict execution of the Bouwmeester motion is, in my view, at the expense of the channeling of players to the offered offer. And that wouldn't ultimately be in the interest of those players either. With that dilemma in mind, I want to distinguish between online gambling providers when granting licences. And let me start with the most easy category, namely that of just the neat providers. They have waited their turn neatly and never offered online games in the Netherlands. If they are considered reliable and suitable by the Ksa, they are quickly eligible for a licence as far as the Ksa is concerned. Then there is what I just call the category of 'the grey area', namely the illegal providers who do act responsibly within margins. They often already have permits in other Member States, where they meet the requirements in force there. But they also have Dutch customers in their files. This applies to a lot of providers. In doing so, they are de facto violating the Dutch Gaming Act. These providers will therefore have to convince the Ksa that they are nevertheless sufficiently reliable for a licence. I believe that this can be done, also inspired by what Mr Postema said about it, with a cooling-off period. I am not just talking about the sanctioned providers, that is, those who have been fined, but all illegal providers. This means, in concrete terms, that these illegal providers will be granted a licence later than the first category. Until they get a license, they can't focus on Dutch players. Therefore, they cannot actively approach them. This is therefore a grey area and a cooling-off period applies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u63	I see Mrs Van Bijsterveld in the starting blocks for an interruption. She gets to interrupt once.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u64	Thank you, Mr President. Then it'll be a compound interruption. Do I understand correctly that the Minister, under 'illegal offer', actually means, among other things, authorised providers abroad who are accessible in the Netherlands? Does he mean that this includes the licensed providers from abroad who offer games of chance in the Dutch language? Does he mean also providers who are based in the Netherlands and offer games of chance in the Netherlands? And by that, does he mean any group of these people who have also been fined? I would therefore like to clarify and clarify that understanding. As I hear the Minister now, he says that all of this is illegal, but there are also decent providers, namely those who have been authorised abroad. Does the Minister say that, if the latter providers meet the requirements, they will get a permit, but they will have to wait a few years? And if that is the case, I wonder if there is any legal basis at all for putting these providers on hold for two years or three years. You can't just say: we're going to open up a permit, but yes, some providers have to wait a few years before we're even going to grant the permit or start to deal with it? Is that even legal under this regime? I wonder. I have a second question. Is it not also true that European rules on free provision of services simply do not allow foreign suppliers to be treated in this way?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u65	I can also imagine that the Minister will answer these questions in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u66	No, I think I'm coming a long way. And if the answers are not satisfactory, I can always come back to them in the second term. The Ksa needs to see if there are any reliable providers. These are providers who also comply with Dutch laws and regulations. In addition, you have to look at the total. If you look at the landscape, you can see that many of those providers are not necessarily based in the Netherlands. They're overseas. With some providers the offer is in the Dutch language, but that is not necessarily bad either. In Belgium, for example, there is simply a regulated legal offer. These are suppliers with offers in the Dutch language, but not necessarily aimed at the Dutch market. Sometimes there are Dutch players who have found a way around to play a game there. Then, in fact, such a provider is in violation. This is a bit of the grey area I'm referring to. I talked to the KSA about that, too. It is real to say that this is a target group that we do not want to completely exclude, but which is not the first one to be dealt with in opening up the market. So then you're assuming some sort of cooling-off period. In addition, you will see: we would like to consider your application, but over time. Then there's a third group, which I just call the group of cowboys. Those are the notorious malicious providers who do not actually comply with any laws or regulations, and who clearly also focus on Dutch players, also very deliberately. It is a group that does not want to commit itself to the Dutch laws and regulations even after regulation. It is clear that they do not qualify for a licence at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u67	Mrs. Van Bijsterveld, you may respond to the Minister one more time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u68	I wonder if what the minister says is legal. If a provider signs up for a licence and complies with the requirements of the law, then such a licence application must be processed, regardless of whether the provider has been legal, illegal or you name it? You can't say: well, we don't like that provider and we want to give priority to other providers, so we just put it in a cooling-off period? I can't do that, can I? And you can't say in advance: this is a provider who signs up for a permit and who now meets the requirements, but we suspect that he is actually a bad guy who's not going to live up to the requirements, so let's just wait a little longer? I don't think that's allowed at all. I would very much like to have absolute clarity on that. Can this be done at all, just on the basis of Dutch administrative regulations, but also on the basis of the proposal of the KAA law itself? I have very serious reservations about this. Because I don't think that's allowed. Can a foreign provider, if allowed under Dutch law, just refrain and give priority to our Dutch people? We'll keep the foreigners waiting for a while. I do not think that should be done on the basis of European law. I'd like a very precise answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u69	I didn't make the last distinction. I have not made the distinction between domestic and foreign, I have made the distinction between bona fide applicants who have always complied with Dutch laws and regulations, who can also prove that they are reliable applicants, and applicants who have not done so knowingly in the past and where...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u70	But Mrs Van Bijsterveld does make the distinction between domestic and foreign.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u71	But I'm making that distinction, but I'm not making it very specific. That's why I'm saying that's not what I said. I also do not want to favour Dutch parties over foreign parties, I want bona fide providers, which can also be foreign parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u72	But a provider is only bona fide in terms of the online Gaming Act that we're discussing now if she meets the permit conditions. A provider makes an application and, if it is met, that provider shall be eligible for a licence. But you can't say, based on suspicions from the past or for the future, that that's not a bona fide person, so we keep him or her waiting for a few years. I don't think that's allowed at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u73	If you want a legal basis, I'll come back to that in the second term. But there is a reliability test, which not only examines whether there is a suitability according to a number of strictly defined requirements. It also looks at the past and whether someone has been trustworthy. Then the Ksa takes these things into consideration.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u74	But if that's the case, you can't make someone wait two years to get a permit. I would very much like to know exactly what legal, on the basis of Dutch law, should and should not apply to domestic and foreign suppliers, and what European legal objections are against them. I suspect that a supplier who is put in the refrigerator with his application will be able to proceed successfully. That kind of undermines the system of the law for which you are now arguing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u75	You will receive a precise answer in the second term. Mr. Postema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u76	Thanks. This discussion is relevant to give further hands and feet to the Bouwmeester motion. Beware: the government has asked the government to ensure that illegal providers are excluded. Then the question arises whether, if you were an illegal provider yesterday and no longer today, you meet the conditions. At least that is something my group does not intend to do. Hence the call for a cooling-off period, even in order to eliminate that lead on the market with regard to customer files and so on. With regard to Mrs Van Bijsterveld's point, we have something like an explanation of behaviour. These are typical of those cases in which the legislator does offer scope to look at the past of a person or a legal person who wants to be eligible for something. Such a figure would be very welcome by my group as regards the entry of previously illegal providers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u77	Mrs Bikker, on this point, and then we will give the Minister another chance to move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u78	It sounds very sympathetic what Mr Postema now tells the Minister. But I would also like to ask the Minister to state whether he can and on which he bases it. Where in the law can we find that? 'Cause these parties are always gonna go through with it, 'cause they've got plenty of money. That should be legally really neatly put together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u79	I believe that I have already promised Mrs Bikker's colleague that I will return to that in second term. Then Mr Dercksen asked about Dutch people who work at Maltese companies where all sorts of things would be wrong. Here too, it is essential that only suitable and reliable suppliers are involved. If there are serious abuses, the providers concerned will be excluded. Mr. Chairman. Then there's enforcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u80	May I ask how much longer you think you need, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u81	Well, I have something about enforcement and then some about prevention. I've talked about advertising most of it by now. Then I want to go to the casinos.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u82	Look, the closing time is already scheduled at 11:55 p.m., so I'd appreciate it if we could finish this today. Anyway, Mr. Dercksen, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u83	I haven't been here that many times tonight. I'm very moved by the CDA's plea for illegal providers. But in this case I am a little closer to the side of the Labour Party. There's a lot of stuff going on at those online casinos in Malta. You're saying we should see how that actually works. I think that's a little short on the bend. I would like to hear that this kind of employer is on that list of illegal immigrants, and as far as I am concerned, not even with a cooling-off period, but on a blacklist, which makes it clear that we do not grant licences to such companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u84	I do not know what specific cases Mr Dercksen is referring to. But there's a very strict consideration of what kind of organizations they're dealing with. Do they comply with laws and regulations? Is it transparent who's behind it? Is everything financially okay? Didn't they commit illegal acts in the past? Something has already been said about the vog, about the Bibob key that is being performed. So there are a lot of checks to see if this is bona fide, reliable organizations. Then I assume that the real cowboys I was talking about are just not eligible for a permit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u85	I'm looking for some kind of guarantee. There are literally deaths in Malta, because people are under an irresponsible workload due to alcohol and drugs. What I said in my contribution: it's worth a sweet thing to know for sure that those kind of people just don't get a Dutch license. So I am looking for a commitment and a guarantee that we, as the Netherlands, will say: it should not and will not happen that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u86	I assume that those who are about to receive a licence will comply with laws and regulations, not only in terms of games of chance, which we are talking about today, but also in terms of many other laws and regulations, including safety, labour inspection and so on. If it's wrong there, I think the Ksa should be very strict about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u87	Finally, on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u88	But what possibilities do we have? If we find that clothes are made in Bangladesh in a non-ethical way, then the Netherlands will even take measures. So can I now hear from the Minister, if it is even closer to home and takes place within the European Economic Area, that he also makes these demands to licence holders who will be operating in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u89	What can we do? Don't give me a license. If it's not in order, it's just not licensed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u90	This is kind of a close listener. I agree with Mrs Van Bijsterveld's questions: do you not have an equal legal basis for all parties? In principle, all providers are now illegal, whether they focus on the Dutch market or not, because they simply cannot gamble online. The minister says he's going to separate the chaff from the wheat. I would like to hear from the Minister in this period how and with what guarantees that will happen. Because if everything is moved to the second term, we cannot have the debate here. If we do not get out of it tonight, we will continue the debate next week, because I think it is far too important to get rid of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u91	I just mentioned the test on reliability, which can be looked at. You have to meet all kinds of things. Then we'll look at the past as well. A level playing field? But everyone has to be trustworthy. We'd like to go with reliable players. If that is not in order, I don't find it strange that the Ksa says at such a moment: show your good behaviour and show that you do respect the Dutch laws and regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u92	Mrs. Gerkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u93	We agree on that. We are now asking the Minister for a guarantee that a party that the Ksa does not think is reliable and proper enough will not take the money she has to the courts and say: we are going to comply with the permit requirements and you have no reason to exclude us, because we are simply complying with the permit requirements. I think Mrs Van Bijsterveld has a point: the Minister is actually going to fetch a tarp.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u94	I can't forbid anyone to go to court; the SP is always so strong for access to justice. I have been assured by the Ksa that we have a good case when it comes to whether suppliers who have shown in the past are actively engaged in attracting Dutch players and who do not care about Dutch laws and regulations, are reliable. At a time like this you can say: first show that you can.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u95	Of course, I am not concerned with estimating trial opportunities or precluding legal proceedings at all. In essence, I am concerned that the Minister should indicate very precisely the legal basis on which he thinks he can make the commitment. I doubt that's possible. I think the Minister is also confusing two things. One thing is the criteria you have to meet in order to make a successful application and get a permit. And then you need to know exactly what can or can't play with it. As Mrs Gerkens said, at the moment, all online offers are actually illegal, so everyone needs to be iced with their licence application. The other is how someone behaves once they have a permit. That's two very different things. I also have the feeling that that's a bit messed up. But the most important thing is what precise legal basis a minister indicates to do what he thinks he wants to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u96	I feel like we're spinning around a little bit. I have just indicated that I am going to find out exactly so that I can come back to that in the second term. I am not looking forward at when we are going to supervise, because then too you can do some things. Then you can apply different sanctions. But at the check to arrive at a successful permit application is not only considered for suitability but also for reliability. That is a broad view. I'll be right back on the exact base. Enforcement is also addressed in detail. For example, Mrs Bikker asked why nothing was done with the opinion of the Advisory Committee on Gambling to cut off illegal providers of all kinds of services. That was indeed tried on the basis of the current Gaming Law, but the judge finally drew a line from those payment blocks. The Ksa can now only do so on a voluntary basis, and that is not so terribly effective. A number of companies have agreed agreements, but the new law will soon give you the opportunity to give a compelling indication. So that makes enforcement a lot more effective. Mr Dercksen also asked about the cutting off of payments. This shall be terminated when a provider is sanctioned and this sanction is irrevocable. In any case, the bill allows effective payment blocks, but also, for example, the obligation to designate advertising providers to stop dealing with illegal providers. So it's a network around a provider, so the Ksa can shut it down where it can't now. Then you actually get to the questions about Internet blocks. Mr Postema and Mrs Van Bijsterveld asked if you did not need that as a sort of ultimate step. In the end, the House of Representatives decided to take that point out, because it was in the original proposal. That was no reason for me to say that this would create such a gap for the Ksa that it could not act effectively. Precisely because you can handle the whole network around it well and because it is possible through criminal law, Article 54a, and with an inaccessibility order for a prosecutor, to make the most far-reaching and unmistakable content finally inaccessible with an order. That is the so-called notice-and-take-down procedure. I do agree to include this point explicitly in the evaluation after three years, in order to see whether we can actually maintain well without those IP blockades. Finally, in terms of enforcement, there was the demand of the SGP and the CDA for Ksa's capacity. It's increasing with this bill. A payment will also be made by legal providers to do something about capacity. The Ksa estimates that it is at full strength to combat illegal supply effectively. Mr. Chairman. Many questions have been asked about prevention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u97	Mr. Postema, one interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u98	The Minister refers to criminal law as a vehicle to eventually arrive at a take-down procedure. Should I understand that this is also the only intervention option of the Dutch government as such to block Internet sites? I mean this more general than the law we're dealing with today. Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u99	That's the only mandatory road. You can, for example, make bilateral agreements with children's pornography on the basis of voluntary agreements on codes of conduct. But in order to intervene unilaterally, you have to follow the route of staff law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u100	Mr. Postema, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u101	I heard the Minister make a commitment that as such the possibility of Internet blockades will indeed be included in the review in three years' time. But what exactly does it take into account what you just said, namely that only that criminal variant would actually be possible?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u102	Here's what I want to take with me. There was an additional instrument in the law. This has been amended with broad support in the House of Representatives. At that time, my assessment was that there are still sufficient enforcement tools left in the Ksa tool kit for effective action and enforcement. In that evaluation, I would like to see whether that is indeed the case or whether you are saying that you may need another amendment of the law to add something extra to it. Mr. Chairman. A number of questions have been asked about prevention. I have said many times: this bill lists a whole bunch of measures. I will insert it in such a way that I avoid repetition as much as possible. The CDA asked me if the prevention measures apply only to online. The answer to this is: no, land-based gambling too will have to meet requirements, for example around the CRUKS. The SP asks how a provider will distinguish between an addicted player and an enthusiastic player. This has to do with several factors that may indicate risk behaviour. Employees are also trained to recognise real problem behavior. The Christian Union asks whether regulation does not lead to more players and more addicts. I think we just discussed that part. Several groups, including the PVV, Labour Party, SP and Christian Union, asked about the separation between games and gambling. Currently, slot boxes or other gambling elements in games that are in fact gambling are prohibited under the Game Game Act. The Ksa has clearly stated in the past year that it will act when game providers fail to comply. Many game providers have now removed their loot boxes from the Dutch game offerings. After the law enters into force, it continues to be forbidden to offer those slot boxes also in the practice of gaming and games. The Christian Union rightly indicates that young adults up to 24 years of age are a vulnerable group. That is precisely why a marketing authorisation holder should also develop specific policies for that target group. In addition, online gambling providers, gaming casinos and slot machines are prohibited from targeting their advertising specifically on this target group, for example with personalised advertising or advertising specifically aimed at students. D66 asked whether it would be better to leave the risk analysis to an external body. Yes, that's possible but not necessary. It is essential to ensure that the implementation of the risk analysis is subject to different requirements. For example, it must be scientifically substantiated. In addition, the authorisation holder should ensure the functional separation of its management and the implementation of risk analyses. Then the establishment requirement; that is also an important element, on which we have sent a supplementary letter to the House of Representatives. It is important that providers are present in the Netherlands, preferably with an establishment, but there are certain limitations to that. We have now said that providers established outside the European Union must have a primary or secondary location in the Netherlands. That establishment must be registered in the Dutch Commercial Register. An establishment in the Netherlands cannot be required from suppliers already established within the EU, but a representative must be present who can effectively shape addiction prevention policies. That person must meet all kinds of conditions, so that it has real substance. That person should be able to take decisions on behalf of the organisation he represents. Mrs Andriessen asked whether he could then represent several licence holders. If you look at the letter of the law, it might be possible, but I think that's actually very unlikely, because it's someone who needs to know a lot about the company he represents. I can also imagine that it is not at all attractive for an organization to let someone who works for the competitor, so to speak, take a look in its own kitchen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u103	I would like to point out to the Minister that the picture is that we will have a lawyer on the Zuidas who is going to represent all those gaming providers. I would therefore like to have a more precise answer to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u104	That is absolutely not the intention, because it is not a kind of intermediary that commutes back and forth. It must really be someone who represents the organisation, who can also make decisions on behalf of that organisation and who is not a sort of postillon d'amour between the office elsewhere and the Dutch supervisor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u105	Has the Minister also agreed with the Ksa on how these demands will be made for that representative?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u106	We have described in the letter quite precisely what he has to comply with. If I put those demands on your image of a lawyer on the Zuidas representing ten companies, that image doesn't match the way I see it and the way we've drawn it out. Mr. Chairman. Maybe it's okay if I go slowly but surely in the direction of the switch. Maybe I can give you a short wrap-up one more time. KOA provides better protection for online players, strengthens addiction prevention, gives additional powers to the Gaming Authority, and my colleague from Finance will be satisfied with that.. will ensure that online providers will pay gambling tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u107	The Minister is threatening to go to the casinos now, but I still have a few questions to ask, first of all about the liability of the provider if people become addicted because a number of steps in the prevention ladder have not been taken. What impact does that have on liability? What I find even more important is what I have outlined about the worried family members who are knocking on the door at the Ksa or the provider. How does that relate to the GDPR, the General Data Protection Regulation? Can the person who has spoken to you just go into discussion about me as a player?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u108	All these organisations, including the organisations you are referring to, must comply with the GDPR.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u109	That's in the papers, but what's the practice now? One knocks like a worried wife and says: my husband gambles everything and would you like to put a stop to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u110	It is not automatic that a stop is placed on it. Then that needs to be examined and examined first. The GDPR does allow you to process certain personal data if there is a legal basis for this. That must be done in a careful way, but with this bill you also create a basis. Mr. Klip's other point was about...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u111	The liability of the provider if it appears that someone has become addicted because the prevention ladder is not properly followed. That's the duty of care.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u112	Yes. The burden of proof is, of course, high there. There is an intervention ladder aimed at shaping prevention within the system and preventing addiction. That's no guarantee it can't happen. Even now you can see this at Holland Casino, for example, which already does a lot in the field of prevention. Yeah, there are people with a problem, too. Then it's not one-on-one that if you've dropped a sting somewhere, it's said immediately that that's obvious and therefore also reproachable. What is true is that the Gaming Authority will be very strict in ensuring that this duty of care and participation is met. If that doesn't happen, you're just gonna run the risk of losing your license.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u113	Mr Knip is convinced, but I still have a question about the level of supervision by the Ksa of that prevention policy. It can all look beautiful on paper. I also see many obligations in the law on administration, provision of data and the like, but how can we prevent it from looking good on paper but not actually being implemented in practice? How can the Ksa hold and hold on to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u114	One of the things she can do is that access to a control database is a prerequisite for getting a permit. This means that the Ksa can look at online providers: who signs up, how much is being played, how much is being wagered and what happens when you see that there are irregularities? In addition to enforcement possibilities, this law also includes a number of powers for the Ksa to look inside new providers in a manner of speaking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u115	Are you sure you want to make another interruption? 'Cause you were so hesitant.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u116	If I look at the chairman any longer, I'm afraid to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u117	Very good, but do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u118	Okay. I pointed out in my first term what you see in Sweden and also in other countries: when orders and instructions are given, they are not always followed by suppliers, and that seems to be without consequences. So the question is also a little bit: have we covered the whole process sufficiently, so that it becomes concrete and so that clues are followed? And if not, will a permit be revoked?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u119	All of them, especially that last one. It is not for nothing that we set the bar high on the contribution that providers have to make to preventing addiction. This includes actively informing players. This includes analyzing behavior. It also includes intervention when you see that it becomes problematic and possibly blocking when you say: and now it can't go on. If this does not happen in practice, the Ksa will be able to determine it on the basis of a number of powers conferred on it by this proposal. That won't be immediate, because that's kicked again. If you see something's not right, you're gonna give a warning first and then you can temporarily suspend a permit. But the ultimate consequence is withdrawal, and that's fine with me. I also notice in your Chamber that this is quite an exciting step, which I can actually only sell in combination with clear demands on reliable supply, which also actively works on preventing addiction. Mrs Van Bijsterveld indicated that many parties still have concerns. Yeah, I can see that, too. Maybe you'll also notice that I still have a little concern here and there. That's why I'm on it. But I also have to say that all this pride is saying to the parties: if we really have to choose, with the gun on the chest, then we are in favour of that bill. These are not only providers, but also addiction care organisations. The charities have also all indicated that it would be good if we took that step in the Netherlands. Perhaps this can also play a significant role in the thinking of the CDA group. Mr. Chairman. Then the casinos. Several parties have asked about the need for that modernisation of the casino regime. I understand you're asking why we're changing the casino regime and that market, because it's working well, isn't it? Indeed, compared to online gambling, there is less acute or urgent need to intervene immediately, one might say. And yet I think there are good reasons for this bill and for the sale of Holland Casino. I'm gonna let this one walk right by. First of all, we must critically ask ourselves whether it is justified to continue to use social capital for Holland Casino. Holland Casino is doing well now, but that has also been different. In 2013, the company suffered a loss. At that time, there was even a demand for an additional capital injection as a public authority, as a shareholder. The question is whether we should run that kind of risk with public money, especially now that we all conclude that we are able to properly safeguard those public interests with existing laws and regulations. That was in the seventies, when Holland Casino was founded, maybe something else. Then we had to figure out what a responsible operating casino would look like and how play casinos can be effectively regulated. That's different now; we know that now. We have a tight legal framework and with the law we have just talked about, a number of pluses are being put on it. That would remove the need for a state-owned company, you could reason. The second reason is that as a government you still have double hats: that of shareholder, who looks at the development of the company, and that of strict supervisor and enforcer, and sometimes it bites each other. I prefer to see if you can't assume a purer role. Thirdly, it is about how to ensure that that market is also a bit future-proof. It is sometimes good for a private company like Holland Casino to be kept a little sharp by other providers; not too much competition but a little bit. That keeps organisations sharp, in a healthy way. How do we ensure that customers remain satisfied and that the offer remains attractive? These are questions that are very healthy for a company, where you have to ask yourself whether the form of a monopoly, with 100% ownership of the State, offers the best framework conditions. I understand very well that there are concerns about too strong growth as a result of any progress towards the market. I also believe that a lot of competition will indeed lead to undesirable effects. But if you look at what we're proposing here, we're not gonna completely open up the market. This is a light form of competition, which may arise after division, and two additional licences. There is no reason to expect very strong growth now. Mr Dercksen asked about the risk of agreements between possible future private parties. I don't think we can do this one-two-three, because we also have an ACM that acts against cartel formation and that kind of arrangement. Mrs Van Bijsterveld asked whether this goal of channeling had already been sufficiently achieved. I think that this is already the case in part in casino games, but having a little more choice, for example two different providers in a region, can add to that. Very briefly, these are the reasons for me to say that it is desirable to proceed to the sale of Holland Casino, but I also understand that you can discuss how much that is needed. I do think that you can give a very clear answer to the question whether it can be done in a responsible way and whether this would be a good time. For that, we really have all the conditions in this legislative proposal in place. I also believe that this is a good time. That may also be double that kind of discussion. You're having a discussion about possible sales of a company like Holland Casino the moment you say: it's a liability, it's not going well. Then a company is made healthy and sanitized and then you say that it is a good time to put it in the window. Then there are all kinds of parties asking what the need is, because things are going so well now. But I can't predict if Holland Casino will still be okay in five or ten years. That would be a reason to take such a step at a time when it is beneficial. Briefly about the trajectory of time. It doesn't run completely in parallel with COA. The market for online gambling is expected to open up by mid-2020. A new casino system would not be operational until 2022. Mrs Strik asked how I arrived at a six-month period between the entry into force of KOO and the casinos. It also asks whether it is not wiser, given the far-reaching nature of the first law, to do so only after the evaluation of the law. You could choose that, but again, I don't know what's gonna happen in three or five years. I do know that this is a good time in principle. Here, too, you have to deal with the review of permits and new entrants. The Ksa will test it extensively. Once again, we look at reliability. That's a tough test, as you know. The Ministry of Finance also looks at the nature of the company in question when selling. The Secretary of State will say something about that later. Furthermore, the number of establishments is limited to a maximum of 16. There are now fourteen scattered across the country. This spread across the country is being perpetuated to prevent too much clustering, for example in the Randstad. Mr Postema asked whether it was in line with those 20 kilometres and whether that would lead to those 16. That's a bit rough, but there's research where you see that twenty minutes of travel time, or 30 kilometers of accessibility, is about the range you need to think about. We have calculated that there are five regions, where the distribution is: Northwest 4, Southwest 2 plus 1, North 2, East 2 plus 1 and South 4. At this sixteen you could say that there is a nationwide covering network, which limits the chances of illegal casinos pupping up. The size of the casinos will also be limited, I say in the direction of Mr Van Dijk. It is essential to curb play behaviour with offer, through strict requirements for the admission of players, advertising requirements and addiction prevention policies, in order to prevent the emergence of some kind of Las Vegas-like megacasinos. Several groups have expressed concerns about the situation of staff in the new system. Mr Dercksen asked about the drafting of the Mei Li Vos/Van Nispen amendment. As a result of this amendment, the legislative proposal now states that authorisation is subject to the condition that it is accompanied by the take-over of staff. I would like to make a commitment to further work this out in a ministerial arrangement. Mr Dercksen was also afraid that, so to speak, unqualified people will come when other owners arrive; that Poland will replace solid Dutch people. I do not believe that this is a real fear, when you look at the demands that are being made; at the leadership, at the key positions and at the knowledge that they need of legislation and regulation. They have to have the skills and ability to talk to customers, too, to say, "Oh, wouldn't you stop playing sometime?" Those are the prevention talks. There are checks we do on background checks. There's a lot built in to prevent that kind of thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u120	I don't know if the minister's gonna come up with that. He was just talking about competing casinos within a particular region. The goal is to prevent addiction, combat inappropriate play-behavior and that sort of thing. What I myself mentioned in my contribution, and in my view many others too, is that if you have an attractive game offer, as is often said in the pieces, in a particular region that places two competitors side by side. But with the commercial, you're kind of whipping up the playname. I just heard the minister say that Holland Casino isn't doing so well and that one can bring in a bit of schwung. In my opinion, that is not the case with the idea of using as much moderation as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u121	In my view, it can be combined, if you do it in moderation. Prevention, whatever you may and advertising are subject to a lot of conditions. That's not some kind of free for all where you can do anything. You have to meet a lot of requirements. But that, combined with the fact that there is also another player and that you also look at each other a little bit how you do that and how you may introduce new games in the future and remain attractive to the customers, the players, does not in my view have to lead to excessive risk behaviour on the part of providers. We have a very tight framework for that, which the Ksa is also monitoring. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I'm just following up on a few things. Mrs Andriessen asked whether it makes sense to impose addiction prevention measures at this stage. The requirements in KOA apply not only to online providers but also to land-based providers. They will therefore also apply to Holland Casino, including in the area of prevention. They are stricter than they are now. The same applies to participation in CRUKS. Ms. Strik asks whether customers who have been addressed in Holland Casino for gambling behaviour cannot work with another provider. Holland Casino now has its own database, a kind of own CRUKS you might say. It's gonna be centrally managed by the Ksa. That means that if you've been addressed to one provider, it'll go with you to another provider. All licensed providers will have to work under the same system and in the same CRUKS, with the stairs that you will first be informed, then addressed and then, the most far-reaching variant, can be blocked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u122	I suspect that the Minister is nearing closure, but I had asked him to reflect on one of the important objectives of gambling policy when modernising the casino regime: less addictions. I hear him replying to Mrs Van Bijsterveld on how to do it with an attractive game offer, with two providers in a region: boys, don't be too wild, but watch some news every now and then. But what does he see now, with the increase in the number of casinos and competition in the regions, that this leads to less problem gambling?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u123	I think the honest answer here is that what we are doing with this bill, unlike COA, is not aimed at reducing addictions. I just don't think it's gonna cause any more problems either. I think that this is very well secured in a very responsible way, with all the strict laws and regulations that exist in the Netherlands that safeguard public interests well. This is one of those interests, there are a number of others. If that is well secured in public law and regulation, you have to ask yourself whether you still have to own a state monopoly that offers gambling. I think that is a fundamental question. Even if you're critical of gambling, you should be wondering if you want the government to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u124	I have also shown this openness in my contribution. I appreciate the Minister's openness when he says that addictions and the number are not the primary goal. But the other way around, he can't guarantee that because there are more casinos that will compete in certain regions, there will be no more addictions. He says he's assuming, but what's he basing that on? I only see the incentives that lead to more gamblers and therefore more addictions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u125	Apart from the fact that guaranteeing is always complicated, I believe that the effect that Mrs Bikker is afraid of will not occur because we are actually taking very small steps with the proposals we are making here. It is not the case that the number of permits is doubled. We're not completely opening up the market to new entrants. It is a small extension from fourteen to sixteen permits. It may lead to up to four parties offering casino games in the Netherlands, with a very strict assessment of who is eligible for the acquisition of those shares. We want to go with reliable parties. That doesn't lead to the winching and bringing in a lot of extra players. On top of that, we have already agreed, and I hope that the legislative proposal will be adopted with COA, that there will be higher demands on the prevention of addiction. The same goes for all these casinos. Mrs Bikker asks how this will contribute to reducing addiction. It's real to say not so much. But is there a great risk that it will lead to more problems? I don't think so, either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u126	I think this is a good answer from the Minister, because he simply openly admits that this policy is no longer a restrictive gaming policy and that he no longer supports it. Perhaps that is also nice in the light of the previous bill, where we debated whether this is the best way to deal with gambling addiction. Here we have a bill which the Minister says openly: that is what I am putting down here to offer more gambling opportunities. It's nice to hear him say that so openly. Perhaps that is also why I am counting heads and I do not know whether the Minister can see clearly that there is no majority in the Chamber. Would the Minister care to reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u127	I don't know if a lot of new possibilities are being introduced. The current play market and the good laws and regulations that we have to safeguard all public interests no longer require that you as a government have all the shares in control. That's a choice that's open here. At KOA the urgency is greater in my eyes. I think we really cannot wait there any longer to do something. This is more of a choice open to the Chamber. I have come to the end of my speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u128	Thank you very much, but Mrs Andriessen would like to make another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u129	The Minister has answered many of my questions, but one has not yet. It's about the split-up of the casino. I had asked why the lot of four cannot be split into smaller lots. Now only foreign companies are threatening to take over such a lot of four, while there are also Dutch interested who can buy at most one or two lots.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u130	This is a trade-off that we have always made. We do not want it to be so broad that you may have six or eight different suppliers in the Dutch market. There is a possibility for the smaller players to buy a single lot, namely in the extension that there is to fifteen and sixteen. So in the long run, two lots will be auctioned separately, with lots that are unable to buy four being able to acquire one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u131	Of course, it's still a weird sum. Is the way in which this sort of thing is going and the question of whether there might be something to change about it also something that is going to take you to an annual information round?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u132	Yeah, but there's less buttons here. If you've made a sale at some point, that's what it says. Then there's a new owner. Then you cannot say: we would have wanted to sell three lots instead of four, so to speak, three permits. So here we have tried to find a very good balance. On the one hand, there must be enough body for the parent company. The one that goes with Holland Casino and the brand name, that's the big lot. On the other hand, there are players who are substantial enough, who are against it with four lots. And then there are two separate lots, which, so to speak, are eligible for that small buyer. The Secretary of State is whispering to me that he will say something about this as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u133	Mrs Bikker and Mrs Van Bijsterveld would like to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u134	This is another subject that the Minister has not yet touched, but on which I asked an important question in my speech. The Council of State has stressed that if you compare the different gambling regimes, there is a risk that there will be no horizontal consistency and that the Dutch State will be weak in European law. My question to the Minister was: if you no longer make demands on the number of providers in online gambling, so if you do grant a permit but do not indicate how much it can be, how strong are you in your shoes when you start privatising Holland Casino? I haven't heard from the Minister yet. I think that is an important question, because I see the risk that we will have to allow everyone on the casino market in no time. That would be consistent if you looked at the online gambling market. I can't imagine this minister would want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u135	We think this can hold, but that's an assessment. The other way around, if you do not take that step, you also have the chance that sooner or later the monopoly will be fought legally. We also see with other monopolies in the gambling market that there are now parties knocking at the door contesting that again. So here too: I cannot guarantee the outcome of legal proceedings. We think we can do this. But the zero variant, doing nothing and keeping the monopoly, in my view, is just as vulnerable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u136	But the other way around it could also have reflected on the online chance games to choose more for a model à la Holland Casino. So if I understand the minister correctly, he's taking a risk, saying, well, I'm guessing we're gonna make it. But it's a risk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u137	Well, no, I don't think so. That's not off the loose wrist. Of course, we had a good look at that. I'm behind this. I think it is legally sound, but also look at sports betting and the toto, for example. There are lots of parties knocking at the door. We need to see how that ends. I think that we are taking a number of steps that make it more sustainable, because in European legislation everything you frame, where there are monopolies, of state-protected providers, is more vulnerable than so-called open systems. This has also strengthened us in the idea of opting for an open system at least in the online games, also learned from the countries around us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u138	I am a little surprised now, because I actually understand that this very large and far-reaching operation of privatisation and liberalisation of the game casino regime at its core is really only necessary in order to generate an even more attractive play. And then I'm kind of wondering what we're doing with the gambling policy, especially in the light of the previous bill. I would like to touch on that construction from ten to four to one or two suppliers. I myself understood a little bit from the pieces that Holland Casino had to keep ten in order to remain viable. But what about the four and the one or two? How viable are they? And shouldn't they be advertising a lot to be a bit viable when they're in a competitive situation? Who really decides which ten and which four are? I'm assuming there's a little more and a little less attractive locations in the tens and the fours. On what grounds? Then I have a third set of questions. The Minister states that monopolies are vulnerable. That may well be the case, but of course you can have very clear public interests on the basis of which you say that we simply want it in the hands of the state. I myself think an oligopoly is much more vulnerable. Because that's what it really is, it's not a real free market. It's a very protected quasi-market that you're about to introduce. Why would you allow one or two market players, or at most three to four, and keep everyone else out of the door, when if you have one that's in state hands, you can easily say: we do, because we think we should secure that audience? But you're gonna put it on the market and you're gonna protect it to a limited number of market players, then I think it's gonna be a tough story. I am therefore very interested in what the Minister has to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u139	In order not to mow away any more grass at my colleague's feet, I will at least pass on the questions about viability, possible suppliers and what the expectations and estimates of the market are. I would like to highlight the legal point that, of course, there is a difference between the online gambling and the casino regime. That is the fact that there is also an objective reason for the casino regime to send in more, namely the regional distribution. There is no such thing as online gambling. That's another market too. I believe that the need to ensure a proper distribution as a condition for sound channeling provides sufficient legal basis to maintain that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u140	No, Mrs. Van Bijsterveld, you have a second term. Thank you, Minister. I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u141	Mr. Chairman. Thank you very much, and thank you to your Chamber for this evening's contribution. I actually wanted to handle the new penalty system of FIFA a little bit. That is, as you all know, the ABBA system. I will start with what we just ended with, with the modernisation of the game casino regime, which then was part B. And then I end with the remaining questions about COA. But there are also a number of questions about the gambling tax that arose from a debate on the tax plan that we had in the autumn. Let me begin with the most important part for which I am here. In particular, I have a number of additions to the Minister for Legal Protection's speech. He's already tried to explain a lot of points. It concerns the five reasons why we thought it was a good idea to proceed to a sale of Holland Casino. Before I do that, perhaps it is just as good to say that I have two roles here as Secretary of State. You could also say that I have two parallels to the gambling policy. I am, of course, a shareholder of two state participations active in the gambling sector. That's Holland Casino and the Dutch Lottery. It is also in the public interest to channel the demand for gaming what is a beautiful word in what is then a legal, responsible, reliable and verifiable offer. These two state participations have always played an important role in the past. My second responsibility is the responsibility for gambling tax and the other tax laws and regulations that apply to these companies. There were some questions about that. Let me begin with the government policy on state participations. I think it is very important that we look at legislation and regulation as the very first instrument. To safeguard public interests, we all have laws and regulations here, and that is what we are trying to do. But sometimes it is the case that this guarantee of our public interest is not enough. Then we opt for a shareholdership. The State's shareholding can thus be a kind of additional instrument if public interests are not adequately secured in the laws and regulations. This may be the case, for example, if companies have a very high strategic interest or a unique location. Then we can think of Schiphol or perhaps companies with very high investment costs, which we do think are important for them to do. Think of TenneT and Gasunie. But you could say that even in the case of Holland Casino and the Dutch Lottery, the first instrument is perhaps the most important. In other words, are we confident that, with the legislation and regulations we make together, we can guarantee the public interest sufficiently? The story we are telling today is that we have the idea that by adapting the laws and regulations we have enough in our hands to stop having to come to the second argument, namely that we need to find a shareholder for these companies. That is at the heart of the discussion we are having today. There have been many examples of why we think that this might be the time to do so. That has to do with the Gaming Authority and everything it can and it has to do with the market organization that the Minister has said a lot about. The most important thing is that I give a number of reasons around Holland Casino, because that's what it's about today. Mr. Chairman. I'll start with a little bit of history, but I certainly won't make it too long. In May 2016, my predecessor presented the future plans for Holland Casino to the House of Representatives. Those future plans were: privatising under certain conditions. Those conditions are important. One of those conditions was that the laws and regulations would be amended so that the objectives I was just talking about would remain well secured. The market organisation, which was well described by the Minister for Legal Protection in his initial contribution, means that ten branches of Holland Casino will continue under the name Holland Casino, four branches will be split up and sold separately and two additional licences will be auctioned which are no longer linked to the existing branches of Holland Casino. That's the plan, and I'll tell you more about it in a minute. I understand very well the various points of interest in the sale that you have made today. What's the deal with that? And if things are going so well now, why another system? And a few of you I heard questions: can you guarantee that it will all get better? You saw both the minister and me wrestling with that last one. Can we guarantee that things will be better than they are now? We can probably never give that guarantee, no matter how long we debate it. What we can say is that we think we are creating sufficient conditions for that transition to be justified. So, at least as well. I cannot say that it is getting better, because when it comes to channeling, we are quite satisfied with the way things are going. If you look at how well Holland Casino has been able to keep away the illegal offer in that field, that's kind of a compliment for how they do it. But it also indicates that we are confident that the way we want to put it in the market can be without public interest, as a shareholder in any case. That's about the five reasons. Not only do we think it's possible, but we also think it's okay now. Another point of interest that you have rightly raised is: is there actually a decent buyer for Holland Casino on the market? There was a bit of a general discussion as to whether it would be a domestic or foreign buyer or interested licence holder. To use flat-Dutch: that is super important to us. If we feel that the providers are not going to comply with what we want, then they simply do not get a permit. The Minister was clear about that. This also applies to the case of Holland Casino. I'll tell you a little bit more about exactly how we select, but in short, the Ksa is looking at it and we're looking at it. We, too, have a final point to make, because the shareholder, I am the shareholder in this case, finally, in consultation with the company concerned, must agree to the choice for a new buyer. So there is a kind of double lock: the candidate buyer must first pass the strict selection gate of the Gaming Authority and then also us. That's one. I also understand very well that you are not only afraid that such a new company would not comply with the laws and regulations, but also that it will be sold, for example, to a company that does not have the best interests in the long term with the investment they are doing. For example, it could be that an investment is opportunistic and that it is said: we buy this company, we look very closely at leverage ratios, we throw in some extra debt. You know the examples. Of course, we take that into account in the way we look at potential buyers. And of course we have the laws and regulations, both national and international, and European legislation. Mrs Van Bijsterveld mentioned that. We can't just say it's from country x, we don't like it, so it's not going to happen. We really need to be able to prove that the reasons why we want to allow something are independent of the name of the buyer or of the country where it is located. However, we do have quite a lot of instruments, such as the long-term reliability test and how sure we are about the transaction to be able to set conditions. From my point of view, it is good to say that we have sufficient confidence in securing the way in which we think we are going to shape that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u142	I have no doubt that you want to find a very decent buyer, but a buyer who is an entrepreneur also wants to make a profit. The question is not so much whether the buyer is just, but how he deals with the tension when the turnover goes down. How does he deal with players who come in? How's he handling his staff? How's he handling his organization? That it's a decent buyer, I don't doubt it, but the tension is on profit maximization versus staff, player, tax revenues. Because in a moment it becomes a foreign entrepreneur again and then the Vpb goes to an exotic place instead of to the state coffin.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u143	I'll be on the Vpb any minute. I think Mr Dercksen has some kind of misconception in his head. Of course, when we select a buyer, we can find all sorts of things. Then he says: then reality goes further and then things fail and then he has to do it. But he always has to comply with the permit conditions. The Ksa will continue to monitor the permit conditions. It is not the case that we look once, at the time of accession. We are also looking at for a long time that has been discussed in the previous debate, whether such a provider and such a holder of the licence abides by the rules that we have laid down.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u144	But the Ksa doesn't walk through the playroom all day. At least I have that idea. Surely you do not deny that there is a great tension between the profit maximization of an entrepreneur in itself I grant an entrepreneur who, of course, because I am also a person who is there and how you deal with your staff and your product? That's the weighting we have to make. That's gonna be exciting if you give it out to the entrepreneur.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u145	Mr Dercksen is an entrepreneur, so he will know that at the moment you enter a market as an entrepreneur, you know that market well and know what rules are attached to that market. If you want to invest in this venture, it would be unwise that you don't know that the Gaming Authority will keep watching with you. Of course, an entrepreneur is looking for profit and that's why he is an entrepreneur, but he does know that he has to take into account the rules that exist in the market. It's a special market, that's clear. This means that the Gaming Authority must continue to ensure that everyone abides by the rules of the game. Another important question that was raised earlier and which was explained in detail in a letter of my predecessor in May 2016 was the account of the stakeholders, including the staff. One important condition is the maintenance of employment in the sector. In the May 2016 letter that link was clearly established: you can only acquire the shares if you also take the staff with you. That too is something you know as an investor or potential buyer when you want to enter into this deal. The promise that this link will be there, I will do it again here. I would like to say immediately that the knowledge and expertise of the staff of Holland Casino is invaluable in order to make the company successful and also to ensure the public interests I am more interested in, such as prevention of gambling addiction. So these people are just desperately needed. As I have just said, the transfer of shares will formally involve staff in the company in which they are employed. That can be either in HC4 or in HC10. After examining and hopefully accepting the bill, I can inform both Chambers a little more about the further establishment of privatisation and the associated sales process. We have all kinds of standards for that. I did not know that there was a framework of decision of the Committee of Inquiry into Privatisation/Seviation Public Services, which is going to indicate exactly how we should deal with this. Then there are a few specific answers to questions that have been put to me on this point. Then I will start again with Mr Dercksen, who, when I paraphrase him, actually said: will we, as taxpayers, be better off? What happens to the Vpb and other taxes? The answer to that is yes; I think it will make us better. That has to do with Holland Casino's proceeds going to pay off the government debt. That is not unimportant, because we are not paying very high interest on it, but we are paying interest on it and in the future it will be guaranteed to be a little higher. Of course it matters. There will be fewer dividend payments in the future. If Holland Casino remained profitable, we would normally receive dividends. This is important for the repayment and reduction of debt. Moreover, and I refer to the answers that Mr Dekker has just given, we must ask ourselves whether it is justified to continue to use some kind of social capital, some kind of investment, for Holland Casino if we feel that our laws and regulations are strong enough to safeguard our public interest. That's the story of just now. The timing is also important. Depending on how successful Holland Casino is, you can get so much for it. That's how much the government debt goes down. It is true that if we had to offer Holland Casino five or six years ago, it would have been a significantly different price, because then it was still loss-making. The timing, if we are already ready that the real public guarantee no longer needs through the shareholdership, for the sale of Holland Casino is currently quite beneficial.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u146	I appreciate the Secretary of State's sales pitch, but I still think it's a mess of arguments. He also speaks very quickly, but there are also all kinds of slips in it. For example, it is the Minister for Legal Protection. It is nice that the Secretary of State has taken note of the procedural framework for self-determination and privatisation. That is what this Chamber attaches to, but it is more than the end of a process, because in 2013 a principle ruling was made in the Note equity policy. We're now six years after that. As far as the momentum is concerned, the Secretary of State points out that in 2013 the authors had a huge predictive capacity, in that it has to be done right now. I invite the Secretary of State to pay particular attention to the social importance of Holland Casino. We can all be pleased and proud that we have arranged this with each other. Do we have to do that now, knowing that we are facing a huge operation when it comes to the online market, together?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u147	That is the key question. I'm not trying to put together a mix of arguments. I am trying to provide an answer to some of the ideas that are coming my way from the Chamber. The key question has been addressed by Mr Postema. Do I think it's justified? I agree with Mr Postema that we can be very happy with Holland Casino as the provider of this game, because they do it very well. You can also see that the channeling works incredibly well. We are very pleased with that. We agree on that. However, the question is this: at the time of privatisation, are we afraid that what we have now achieved will no longer be possible? In short, does something go wrong? That is the key question. I am convinced, with the guarantee we now have in mind, also in the legislative proposals and with the prudent sale of licences, that 32 new licences will not suddenly be added; this will be very careful to set up a process that will ultimately help the whole sector. If I had not believed that, I would have agreed directly with Mr Postema. You shouldn't. Why else would you risk it? So I'm not doing that because I think it's responsible for doing it right now. The question, also from Mr Dercksen, is: what exactly is the picture we have of future licence holders? Are these only Dutch or also foreign parties? In all cases, it shall be demonstrated that the reliability of this new authorisation holder is beyond doubt. For that, too, you can look at the past, as the Minister indicated. It really must be beyond doubt that the new authorisation holder is reliable when it comes to what he's going to do. The Gaming Authority is then of course leading, but the selling party will eventually use a kind of selection criteria when selecting the ultimate buyer of Holland Casino. When choosing that buyer, I cannot make a distinction between a party that is Dutch or foreign. This is contrary to the state aid rules. However, I am allowed to look at the quality of the providers. The selection criteria also give us room to select a neat party, a new licence holder that fits the game offer we want to give.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u148	The Secretary of State has been able to take note of how my group feels about the idea of privatising Holland Casino. Out of interest, there are two more questions. I hear him saying that those ten branches continue under the name Holland Casino. Is that right? Is there any certainty about the transaction? Can't there be a tying or something like that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u149	As for the latter, I would have to have a glass ball, but I don't have one. At first we distinguish between what we call HC10 and HC4, the club Holland Casino that is tens and the club Holland Casino that is four. I can't tell you exactly what it's like yet. I'll get back to you on that. We now proceed with the name "Holland Casino," but with the total sale, an investor could, if he thought it was a good idea not to use this fantastic company name anymore, do something else with it. I wouldn't recommend that, but the investor doesn't have to listen to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u150	Good thing the Secretary of State says that now, because he just said something else. I ask him to be careful with his words. Just now, the Secretary of State said that these ten branches under the name "Holland Casino" would continue. Although I'm not an expert either, I honestly think that's strong. Anyway, that matters less. As far as tying is concerned, here's the thing. Long ago, the Municipal Transport Company Groningen was sold to a huge fine party of people who presented themselves well and was good for the staff and that sort of thing.But overnight that was sold to a completely different beast within 24 hours. Hence the question of tying.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u151	For the sake of clarity, I certainly do not want to choose my words carelessly. I'll check again, in case I haven't just said it correctly, how it really is. My idea was that at least the HC10 would initially continue as Holland Casino. I have to see if they could choose another name, but so far I had understood. I don't want any confusion about it. I shall have that checked and come back to it in the second term. As far as tying is concerned, here's the thing. In the end, anyone who wants to buy something in the new situation will have to apply for a permit. There's a lot of things to do with that. In an interim debate, Mrs Van Bijsterveld said that she believed less in oligopoly than in a monopoly. Then again, I have my doubts. In economic theory, a monopoly almost never brings a higher social optimum. I think that's still true. If you want to keep up, if you want to make sure that the legal and reliable offer continues to meet the wishes, then it is not surprising that once in a while someone comes up to challenge your assumptions again or comes up with another game that apparently is much more interested in. Then I would prefer it to be someone who has to comply with all the laws and rules we have, rather than someone far beyond Europe over which we have no control. The same goes for the tying. Mr. Dercksen asked about the proceeds and what we have booked for the proceeds of Holland Casino. As an entrepreneur, Mr Dercksen understands that, unfortunately, I cannot answer that, because that would not strengthen our negotiations. We shouldn't be talking about this. At least it is not in the budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u152	When a company goes to the fair, a range is always indicated by the ladies and gentlemen on the Zuidas. Maybe the Secretary of State has been so focused that he can say that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u153	Mr Dercksen knows that this is not a stock exchange listing. It is difficult to monitor the new authorisation holder. It is explicitly put in an auction and not on the stock exchange.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u154	I find it complicated to make a decision when I have no idea what it's gonna yield. I would like to follow up on what Mr Postema said. He was talking about an animal or something, but I couldn't imagine it. Suppose someone buys the stuff and then sells his shares of the company. So where do we stand?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u155	The new shareholder will then also have to comply with all the requirements that are imposed on him if he is to remain a holder of the licence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u156	All the way to the end, Mr. Dercksen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u157	Those demands are just in the company. They're not in the UBO, they're staying in the company.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u158	No, the Ksa will have to continue to check whether the way the licence holder offers the game meets all the requirements. In the event of reselling, that will continue to apply. So that changes, I guess, really not that much. I would have stuck to the answer I wanted to give to Mrs Van Bijsterveld and Mrs Andriessen's question. It was about the final selection of the four branches to be split up. How would that go? Well, that's actually going to happen, so I'll have a meeting with the Minister for Legal Protection and the Ksa, where we'll make an assessment framework. That is what we have drawn up in the meantime, to decide exactly how to do it. So we do have a deal on that. We are looking at this, without me being able to say what the outcome of it is. It would also be very unfortunate to divide it now with you to some sort of balance sheet. On the one hand, this concerns policy objectives relating to competition and channelisation. An element of that discussion was already discussed in the previous discussion. For example, we want at least two competing providers per region. On the other hand, it concerns the viability and merchantability of the parts of Holland Casino. If we have taken this step today, I will finally come back to the division into another letter, which is about privatisation and the way in which we set it up. Let's talk about candidates. Who was interested? We had an interest poll done at the end of 2016. This showed that there was interest in the parts of Holland Casino, both from home and abroad. It is therefore not true that there were only foreign suppliers. There was also an interest in a number of parts from the interior. Mrs Andriessen also asked about the distribution between the ten, the four and the two. Can the Minister, therefore, not keep open the possibility of selling the smaller lots at the block of four casinos? Would you like to split it up smaller? I would like to say that, in addition to the ten, the four branches to be separated are sold. Only the two new licences would then be auctioned. So there's something different about that. Again, this is a good balance between gambling targets, competition and division costs. The first survey of interest, which I have just mentioned, shows that market players are looking for scale and have less preference for individual establishments. In addition, splitting Holland Casino into more than two parts is also quite complex and therefore costly. From a competitive point of view, there is no obvious preference for a cluster of four or smaller units. A larger cluster means that there is also a greater market concentration and thus a firmer counter player for the 10 cluster. That can also have its advantages. In addition, there are two additional licences which can ensure competition. In doing so, we have made a sort of cut-up of what we think can bring about a balanced market balance. Finally, as you sell things like a block, the sales process becomes less complicated and therefore more beneficial to us. Mr. Chairman. That in relation to part B of the penalty system. Now I'm gonna get to part A. That's about KOA and some things about the gambling tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u159	It's just those two letters you treat, isn't it? First the B, we've had it, now the A.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u160	A-B-B-A, it's ABBA. It used to be the penalty for football. Now we go to a system in which team A takes the first penalty, then team B, then team B again and then team A again. That makes it more exciting, so I might have thought for this debate as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u161	You've had B now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u162	So I'm going to A now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u163	Will you go back to B?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u164	Well, no, that's it: that's what the next team does. That'll be the Minister. He may look again or... You're not following this. I've made it too complicated, I can already hear it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u165	I understand completely, I must tell you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u166	Oh, that's nice. Another soccer connoisseur in the hall. That's very nice. These are a few more loose questions I'd like to answer. Mr Ten Hoeve asked if I could indicate how much the KOA bill will contribute to additional gambling tax revenues. How much did we estimate for that? I heard a $100 million drop in one of the insertions. We don't recognize that. We've been looking to see if we can reverse that. We estimate the revenue generated by this legislative proposal, which has now been submitted, to 28 million a year. A percentage of expected channelisation has been taken into account. A percentage of expected compliance in tax legislation has been taken into account, as we do. We have taken into account the size of the market for gross play results which is currently illegal and can then go to us. Finally, we have also taken into account a certain percentage. If we put those sums together, I'm not going to run them all over again. We're gonna get an extra $28 million. That also has to do with the fact that there is now... the total revenue would have been even higher.. players themselves pay about their winning tax. That's about 10 million a year. The additional revenue from the bill as a whole is 28 million. Does that make the state treasury much better? No, because at the same time we agreed in the 2019 Tax Plan that we would match the temporary increase in the gambling rate from 29% to 30.1% with a KB again. This leads to a budgetary loss of an amount in the same order of magnitude. That's actually the deal we made. On balance, it provides money in the first instance, but at the same time we lose about the same amount in the gambling tax. Then the question of Mr Dercksen where the new KOA holder or a possible buyer of Holland Casino would pay his tax and whether there were any constructions to circumvent the Netherlands. Here's what I'm gonna do. A CAA holder shall become liable for the gambling tax. This applies to both domestic and foreign licence holders. So they all have to pay gambling tax in the Netherlands. Of course, this also applies to a buyer of Holland Casino. However, in the case of corporation tax, domestic companies are normally taxed for their profits in the Netherlands and foreign companies are normally taxed for the profits they make abroad. Well, indeed, if a foreign KOA provider uses a permanent establishment in the Netherlands to offer the game here, part of the winnings must be attributed to the Netherlands. That's a very exciting game. It is true that we already know that you can normally expect the profits attributed to a permanent establishment of a large gambling provider in the Netherlands to be relatively small. Unfortunately, I do not have any euro signs in my eyes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u167	But we have just established, as is also stated in a rule in the coalition agreement, that the representation in the Netherlands has to consist of only one person.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u168	I do not think that the latter has been established as such. In the coalition agreement, that was a little less clearly defined. We want a point of contact. It has just been explained by the Minister to what all this contact point has to comply with. When it comes to the allocation of profits, you also know that this has nothing to do with the person concerned. It is that part of the total profit a company makes that is abroad and the tax authorities say: you should actually attribute that to your Dutch activities. As there are more Dutch activities, a larger share of the profits goes to our treasury. Only in this case will I give the warning that we do not really expect much Vpb revenue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u169	My question has been answered with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u170	Happy, Mr. Chairman. I shall now turn to another question, namely Mrs Andriessen's. She asked whether the legal changes in the 2019 Tax Plan regarding the gambling tax would make the playing field for sports betting more even. In fact, I think she said it would be less equal. I really want to fight that. This is indeed about creating a more level playing field than if we had done nothing. With the Act adjusting gaming tax sports betting we have tried to subject both land-based and non-land-based sports betting to the same tax obligation. That was also necessary, because if we had not done so and, for example, if we had made a country-based bet pay a different percentage than a non-country bet, we would have had the European judge on our doorstep here again, on the basis of location choices, who would have said: that should not be just, because that would be state aid. It's precisely because of the appearance, that's why we did the law. This is a discussion that we have had quite extensively with the Tax Plan 2019, namely whether there are any effects on the people who offer bets around the trotting and racing, for example, and ultimately also for the Association Draf- en Rensport, who then gets a part of it. The answer is: yes, of course we would have realized that. It is true that sports betting providers could be Runners in this case, but also the totoo much because they pay a higher tax would be left less to the other payment targets they have. In the case of the NNO, NOC*NSF and ALN are under pressure. Direct compensation is not possible. If we could directly compensate for this as a tax compensation, it would become state aid. But at the same time we were concerned about the problems that arose. At that time we decided to put together a lot of money, and that is quite generous, if you look at what was going on before that, to give $3.2 million in compensation for charities and sports. So we have already taken into account that this must come to these institutions in a different way. Again, because I could not directly compensate and that is not possible with the Dutch Draf- en Rensport, we have chosen this route. If you're asking why they don't get a share of it, it's because they're not part of it. For example, the hippical sports association is affiliated with NOC*NSF and can therefore claim part of that money. Again, I am not an advisor in this matter, but I could imagine that the Dutch Draf- en Rensport will engage in the conversation with NOC*NSF, about whether they could also benefit in part. Of course, they'll have to join that circle. I know these conversations are going on. We've had conversations of our own. In view of the discussion we had in the autumn, I also spoke with the House of Representatives a little longer. At that time, I promised to inform them at least before 1 April 2019 about the state of play with regard to those talks. I can also make that commitment to you. Those talks are both about the Dutch Lottery as well as Sportech Runnerz, the provider for trotting and racing, and about what that means for the NDR. So we're working on it. The conversations are still going on. The point is well understood. We cannot directly compensate, but we report to the House of Representatives and with love also your Chamber before 1 April on how things stand. Mr. Chairman. That is what I hope I am through all the questions that have been asked in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u171	Thank you. I'll take a look around. In my view, we have arrived at the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u172	Mr President, could I request a suspension of about ten minutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u173	About ten minutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u174	Or five.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u175	Then let's continue at 10:25 p.m., that's in seven minutes. The sitting was suspended until 10.25 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u176	I understand that a proposal of order is being made. Mrs. Gerkens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u177	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Minister has said on a number of issues that he will return to in the second term, and he has not clarified this. It is very important for us as a Chamber to clarify these issues. The proposal we want to make is to suspend the debate now, to ask the Minister on three points to clarify through a letter, and when the letter has been received to continue the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u178	Is that your proposal, Mrs Gerkens, or is that a proposal from all the spokesmen of the Chamber? I'll take a look around.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u179	The spokesmen all support me. It's a joint proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u180	It's a proposal from all the spokesmen of the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u181	Mr President, may I mention the three subjects for the letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u182	Yeah, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u183	We would like clarification on what exactly is an illegal provider, so the definition of it. Then I'm talking about the draft law on remote gambling. We would also like to know the legal basis on which this Minister thinks the Bouwmeester and others motion. to be able to do so. The second point is that we want to be clear about the possibilities of restricting advertising other than television broadcasting and, in particular, of course online. What enforcement basis does this minister have, for example, when it comes to matters such as social media? Then the final point. In tackling illegal sites, the Minister mentioned the use of Article 54a of the Criminal Code. That is a road that seems almost impossible to us. We would ask the Minister to explain this further, but also to tell us what is possible under administrative law with regard to banning illegal sites, especially since this has been one of the key factors in channeling Internet gambling in Denmark.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u184	Thank you, Mrs Gerkens. These three questions have been asked, Minister. I can also imagine the Minister saying: give me twenty or twenty-five minutes and I come up with ready-made, fantastic, right-to-the-point answers to these three questions. If the Minister says this, what is your answer and that of your co-speakers, Mrs Gerkens?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u185	I see some spokesmen shaking no and I see others nodding, but I need to take a good look around. I hear they want a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u186	What do I hear saying? People say they want a letter, if I hear it right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u187	I hear that, too, Mr. Chairman. I think you'd prefer a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u188	Mr President, we must, of course, be reasonable. You are making a very reasonable proposal to the Minister to give him the opportunity to answer these three questions sharply and quickly, for example in twenty minutes. Then I think we should give him that chance and not say, "We're going straight home."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u189	Well, that's also an opinion, I agree with you. It may also be that we get those answers and then it's not good. Then we still have to get that letter. Of course that is also very difficult because then it all takes extra time. So I'm still looking around and I'm also looking at the Minister. Can I give you the floor on this point? That's the case. Then we're gonna need to drag that cathedral over there for a while. Mrs. Gerkens, I think you can sit down. Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u190	Mr. Chairman. Two of these questions have already been asked in the first term. I would return to that in my second term. I've got those answers about ready. The third question is supplementary, but it does not seem too complicated to me either. I can do that orally, but if the Chamber wants it in writing, I am fine with it. It's up to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u191	Thank you. Then I look at the Chamber and ask the spokesmen to raise their hand if they think it should be by letter. If a spokesperson does not raise his hand, that means that the answer can also be given now, orally. I'm looking around. I'm looking to the left. Mrs Gerkens letter, Mrs Andriessen letter, Mrs Van Bijsterveld neutral, Mr Dercksen letter, Mr Koffeman letter, Mrs Strik letter, Mr Van Dijk letter, Mrs Bikker neutral, Mr Cut also neutral, Mr Postema letter? No, also neutral. Hey, you're making life complicated. Hello, friends! We have four neutrals, if that's how I count it. We have 11 spokesmen. Mr. Ten Hoeve, how have you been? Letter. Eleven spokesmen, four neutrals, seven letters. Mrs. Gerkens, would you like to say something? I see you waving your hand. No? Well, then I guess we'll get to the letter, to be honest. Then I ask the Minister on what time he can send that letter. I think he can deliver him like a spear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u192	Yeah, I guess so. I don't want to say tomorrow, but I want to say the day after tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u193	Shall we say Friday morning, before noon at the latest? Do you think that's a good one? Agreed. Then we will see if next Tuesday, the 12th, is possible to do the second term. Of course, we already have a schedule for that day's meeting, so we should see if we can get this. For the second term of office, I've had 45 minutes. I think you both might need an hour, because it's already in that letter. So we'll have, like, an hour and a half, one hour, 45 minutes max, for the second term. I'm looking at the Secretary of State and the Secretary of State. If you keep nodding, that's fine, because then we can see how much time we have to schedule and whether we can add it next week, because it would be nice if we could finish that next Tuesday. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u194	I don't know exactly what my schedule looks like, but I think I can. Only the honourable Member will be on the Ecofin Council, but I have the impression that the remaining questions are mainly on the legal side and not so much on the fiscal side. So as far as I'm concerned, we'll do it next week, in an hour and a half.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u195	As far as a tax question is concerned, you will get a little bit of a tax immersion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u196	Of course!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-05-eerstekamer-8.u197	Great, then this is a deal. Friday morning before noon in writing a wonderful answer to these three questions and we are doing our utmost to schedule Tuesday next week, 12 February, the second term, of which I said 45 minutes, to be precise 44 minutes, from the Chamber side, little hour from the Minister's side and the Secretary of State, which will be done by the Minister. We're gonna do our best to do that. Agreed? In that case, the examination of the two legislative proposals has been suspended.
