ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u1	The next item is the continuation of the General Financial Reviews. I am happy to give the floor to Mrs Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to congratulate on behalf of the PvdA Senator Vendrik on his maiden speech and to endorse Femke Halsema's fine words about how you can be left and good at finance. You can also be a woman and good at finance, and I should like to point out in this debate, but that is not something I have to say but what others have to say to me. Mr. Chairman. "I'm fine, we're bad." With this sentence, the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau has for years summarized the mood of the Dutchman. The Dutch are generally very satisfied with their own lives. Their children are the happiest in the world. Yet there is discontent. It wouldn't go well with the country. Many farmers, builders and citizens are angry at politics. The kids are gonna have it worse than their parents are now. "Our country is doing well, some groups are doing badly." With that sentence, I would like to summarize the PvdA's discontent. After the end of the financial and economic crisis, the Netherlands is doing very well again. Gross domestic product is growing rapidly. There are more people at work than ever. In the European Union, the Netherlands is one of the best performing and most prosperous countries. The government gets more money than it spends. The government debt is rapidly shrinking. Inflation remains low. Yet some groups are left behind. Spread of knowledge, power and income, that is the ideal of the PvdA. That spread is vulnerable when you're insecure. There is no such spread if the social divide in our country is persistent. Higher-educated people, higher-income people, young people and indigenous people are still better off than lower-educated people, lower-income people, older people and people with migration backgrounds. This is unacceptable to the PvdA. Everyone must be sure of a fair chance, of good education, of a fine place to live, of a good income and of a carefree old age. Mr. Chairman. The money in The Hague is plotting against the plinths, according to the Prime Minister. But while the Empire seems to have money like water, municipalities have received hundreds of millions less than had been agreed since the start of the cabinet. At the same time, decentralisation in the social domain requires adequate funding for the municipalities. Take care of the kids. Figures from the CBS show that the number of young people in the youth care sector has been increasing for five years in a row. And that's when there's less money to provide that kind of care. Research shows that at least a quarter of all youth care institutions are in the red. In particular, municipalities with a high proportion of young people in the youth care sector suffer from significant budget deficits. For example, a deficit of EUR 35 million remains in The Hague. In order to resolve these deficits, the Minister for Health, Welfare and Sport has occasionally promised money, but this has not solved the structural deficits. Worse still: this ignores the looming error in the so-called step-on-step system. This means that the State contribution to the Municipal Fund is linked to total government expenditure. If the Empire spends less than expected, as is currently the case, municipalities will receive less money than expected. The Council of State also points to the unrest and uncertainty that the present system entails. He therefore called for the flow of funding from the Empire to the municipalities to be made more stable. The Council of State calls the current financing system "not good for the quality of decision-making in municipalities." Our colleagues across the street have asked for a motion to put forward proposals to adapt the system before the end of the year, but the problems in the municipalities are now urgent. What opportunities does the Minister of Finance see for meeting the municipalities? With Mr Wever, I share the concerns about the fact that costs can sometimes not even be financed. I assume, therefore, that he supports the question of whether measures can be taken now. Mr. Chairman. The PvdA finds it difficult to understand that the Empire spends less than expected. Upon its arrival, the government unfolded an ambitious investment agenda: in 2018 nearly 5 billion more would be spent, rising to 14.5 billion in 2021. However, in May the General Court came up with sobering figures. Of the 5 billion additional investments from the first year of government, no less than 1 billion remained on the shelf. In the words of Arno Visser, President of the General Court, the money was difficult to roll and lacked visible results. The Central Planning Office is also sceptical about the ability of the government to make additional investments. It assumes that this year EUR 2.5 billion of the so-called intensifications will remain in the wallet of the Minister of Finance. By 2020, the CPB will amount to EUR 1 billion that will not be realised. The result of the under-spending of 2.5 billion is that the economy is growing 0.3% less. Behind these figures are harrowing stories of judges, teachers, policemen, soldiers and care workers. For judges and prosecutors, it is increasingly difficult to do their work at the level to which our society is entitled. Teachers succumb under the workload and don't get a fair salary. Academic staff are also tired of the workload and the undersized public investment in education. Trade unions say there's gonna be a lot more money in the Department of Defense. Care screams for staff, but high workload drives nurses away. And the police are squeaking and cracking because of the staff shortage. That is why I have the following questions to the Minister of Finance. What efforts can we expect from him to spend the money and achieve visible results? What opportunities does he see, for example, to make work more attractive for people with a part-time contract in order to relieve the workload of judges, teachers, policemen, military and health care workers? Does the Secretary of State for Finance see a role for himself in this? Mr. Chairman. It has undoubtedly not escaped the heads of government that both the Council of State and the CPB are seriously critical of the release of the salmon standard. It prescribes that Cabinets do not leave it too wide in a high economy, but moderate expenditure to build up financial buffers for worse times. This will prevent the next cabinet from having to make hard cuts as soon as the economy falls into a slump. If the salmon standard is applied consistently, the state budget has a stabilising effect on the Dutch economy: in a recession, the government can counter it by stimulating the economy with additional spending. This is entirely in line with economic rationality. The 2020 Millions' Note goes hand in hand with this principle, says the Council of State in a remarkably critical analysis on Princess Day: "The budget for the coming year does not comply with the rules of the game." In addition, the budget contains quite a few open ends which could lead to even more expenditure. Think of the pension agreement, the Climate Agreement and the investment fund that the cabinet is considering setting up. The CPB added: "The trees don't grow to heaven, capital markets don't believe in fairy tales and free money doesn't exist." At the same time, there is a call in Europe for the Netherlands and Germany, among others, to spend more. We understand the need for the Finance Minister to navigate carefully, but we would like to get a better idea of the course he is pursuing. That's why he asked why he let go of the salmon standard. Does he believe that this leaves sufficient room for the stimulation of the economy with additional expenditure as soon as it becomes in bad weather? Mr. Chairman. I would also like to briefly mention the financial sector in these General Financial Reviews. Since the crisis of ten years ago, debt has only increased worldwide. While banks have a bit more equity, capital buffers are still historically low. As a result, financial stability is still at risk. In the Netherlands, the constant increase in debt ratios in banks must be slowed down and discouraged, the PvdA believes. Capital buffers must be raised to enable banks to absorb more losses themselves before the State has to intervene. What can we expect from the Minister of Finance in this area? The Dutch banking sector is also relatively large and dominated by some large banks. This is why the Scientific Council for Government Policy advocates the introduction of consumer accounts at De Nederlandsche Bank. 16 members of the Sustainable Finance Lab also urge the government to take a test to see how such an account should be implemented in practice at the central bank. This makes the banking sector more diverse and less dependent on some large banks. As a result, there are fewer systemic risks, where banks are so connected that they can draw each other into their trap. The financial system would therefore become stronger. Surely the Minister of Finance can only welcome that? We very much like to hear his reaction. Mr. Chairman. I conclude with a passage from the speech of the throne taken from my group's heart: "We often have discussions on the basis of figures. But the lives of more than 17 million individual Dutch people do not fit in a mould. People follow an education, change jobs, start a business, buy a home, start relationships, have children, or be affected by illness or loss of a loved one. It is these kinds of choices and events that have great impact. Much larger than a purchasing power figure, a macroeconomic growth rate or a tax measure. No life adds to the median of a statistical model." A former Secretary of State for Finance once flawlessly explained to our Chamber the difference between the median and the average according to a row in the gym class. We keep good memories of that. I also use that example in my lectures. Anyway, we can't stop counting, but we also have to tell them. About Miss Denise, who goes to court because she thinks she's been exploited by her school. About the welfare judge in East Brabant who was late with his verdict because of the high workload. About nurse Joris, who couldn't cope with the pressure of work in the acute intake for adults and switched to the elderly psychiatry. Only through these stories do we understand the SCP statement: "I'm fine, we're bad." 'Cause some groups are in bad shape. That is why my group looks forward with particular interest to the answers to the questions we have addressed to the Minister of Finance in particular. We thank the Secretary of State for Finance very much for his presence and I can inform him that my group's spokesman for taxation is very much looking forward to the exchange of views with the Secretary of State on the Tax Plan 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Sent. I call Mr Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u4	Mr. Chairman. On behalf of the D66 Group, too, I should like to congratulate Mr Vendrik, who, in my opinion, has earned an extra bunch of flowers, for he had already interrupted three times before speaking his maiden speech, which was also of high quality. Welcome to the financial spokesperson's office. I have no questions for the Secretary of State other than those already asked, particularly by Mr Vendrik. I look forward to the answers, but I am not adding any questions to them. My first topic is: the Minister of Finance as an authoritative ruler. In our country, the Minister of Finance has a natural authority. He stands on the shoulders of his predecessors who have built that authority. In general, they have done so by being economical. I think that the cultural roots of this can be traced back to Calvinism. As long as he's tough, it's okay. The minister also cooked a bit with it and, although I don't know if he wanted to, he got the nickname "the Blokkerfries." But the fraction of D66 celebrates the change of course. Because it really is when we look at this Millions note. We are also pleased that important elements of our country's future choices have been made that ignore the economy and regularity and add a combination of burden relief, investment and intensification to the public services and the growth of broad sources of wealth. The term is used in the Millions Note on page 7. The policy goes beyond calm and regularity, and that is what can be done at this time. That would be my appeal to the Minister. Let him also use this authority for an inspiring story of the cabinet, because the citizen is sensitive to the story and the tone. Consumer spending is volatile. Malieveld is busy. I don't have to tell anyone. The picture is restless, while government policy, including adjustments, would deserve broad support. It is the art of being credible as a minister, as a government, both in the financial world and at the kitchen table. The D66 Group wants to encourage the Minister and support him not to fall back into the role of the Blokkerfries, but to make myself a Frisian runner in the same atmosphere. It is a somewhat old-fashioned skate, but still very popular, definitely also in CDA circles. To paraphrase the Nobel Prize winner Robert Shiller: how to achieve the clean economic spirit? Economic research has been carried out into the importance of this story, and Mr Van Kesteren spoke in other words about the restoration of confidence. That's what it comes down to after all. The announced growth letter can be a good start. A broad agenda, as announced on page 18 of the Blue Framework of the Millions Note, a broad agenda to strengthen long-term sustainable earning. We'd like to see that. Everyone has wishes, so do we. The Group of the Party of European Socialists has also discussed, in the General Political Reviews, additional investments in science and the availability of funds for fundamental research. They also contribute to the earning capacity. I hope that the Minister will be able to use his overview alongside the Prime Minister for the broad prosperity. What Mr Vendrik said about this very much appealed to me. Broad prosperity is far from being fully incorporated into the Millions Note. That is also stated in that note. The direction has been taken. As far as we are concerned, it should not be a top-level approach again. This would broaden the support for these and future measures. My group would be in favour of not talking about a fund, but about a future package, rather than a fund that immediately calls for all kinds of associations. In the General Reviews, the Prime Minister said it nicely. He said a "fund" is a working title.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u5	I agree with Mr Backer's appeal to the Minister to keep a positive story as a Frisian Doorwalker and not just to be the Blokkerfries, but at the beginning of his speech he said that he sees a change of course and that he is celebrating it. He saw a farewell to the Calvinist severity that we normally associate with the Minister of Finance. I'd be celebrating that change of course if there was one. What exactly does this change of course consist of? Mr Backer spoke of major challenges facing us: broad social prosperity, climate, restoration of confidence. Where does this change of direction in concrete budgetary policy come back?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u6	Could Mr Van Apeldoorn still be patient? I'll get back to you. If I've failed at the end of my story, there's still an opportunity to remind me of that. I'll get on it. I just mentioned the future package. I think this is a much more workable approach. On the one hand, this can be brought under separate budgets in the form of intensifications, on the other hand, into a budget fund, as it already exists, for example infrastructure, but that also has the advantage that the budgetary rules remain applicable, such as those applicable to the Rutte III Cabinet, and also the legality of the Chamber, on the basis of the Compatibility Act. These institutional frameworks also include the Council of State as an adviser and budgetary authority, in accordance with the Sustainable Public Finance Act. This brings me to the second part of my speech under the heading: Quo Vadis Hoekstra? Each time has its special challenges. We have experienced storms, hail and rain in the Rutte I and II Cabinets. Now the sun is shining in an economic sense. The garden chairs of Sybrand Buma are outside. I remember the debate on this in the House of Representatives. The cabinet can come up with this Millions note. Of course, there are also shortcomings, and I will point that out. The foundation of this Millions note is sound economic growth, although it is somewhat flattering in the CPB's multiannual estimate, but there is economic growth, low unemployment, falling public debt and a budget surplus. It looks macroeconomically good for our country. At the same time, of course, we remain economical and caring in the polder. Not everyone shares proportional progress. That has already been said by the PvdA and GroenLinks. There are clouds already on the horizon. This has already been calculated in the long-term explorations of the CPB, and the ECB's monetary policy calls into question the President of the DNB. It does not suit me to find all sorts of things, but De Nederlandsche Bank has doubts about it. I would also like to point out a possible Brexit. There are trade wars going on and on. And there is a lack of solidity of banks in some Euro countries. Each individual or joint may cause a cyclical change.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u7	If I have understood Mr Backer correctly, he saw some good things in the medium-term forecast that has just reached us. I'm very curious to know what light rays he's picking up on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u8	Well, then I've expressed myself in a way that's not clear. That's what metaphors do. I said there are clouds on the horizon, as the long-term forecast shows. That is what we knew for a long time, of course, about the continuing ageing of the population, about the flattening of growth and some of those things. They are, of course, not favourable in budgetary terms. That seems to me to be the answer to the question, unless we misunderstand each other now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u9	No, no. I am glad that you will explain this further, that the Senator will explain it through the President. What is interesting, by the way, in the context of the debate we are having today and some of the contributions, is that the broader concept of prosperity is not central to the calculations we have just received. Does the Senator agree that it would be desirable not only to look at growth and labour market issues in medium-term forecasts, but also to incorporate the broader concept of prosperity in them?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u10	I would be very much in favour of that, but I also realize that we have been having this discussion for a very long time and I see Mr Koffeman, who has made this point many times, that there are still a lot of steps to be taken before we have incorporated it and that not everything is quantifiable. I think that direction is very good, but I would not blame it on the CPB for not having it in yet. I am also going to ask about the methodology of the CPB, and that has to do with this. What I wanted to say for the sake of the interruption is that each element individually or all together can cause this cyclical change. Then we also have negative interest rates and high private debt. Then the decline in the economy can be deeper than we see coming now. Mr. Chairman. Perhaps the Minister hoped that I would have completed the critical analysis of the Millions Note, but that is not true. I still have a few points. Ex post reviewed by the Council of State, the cabinet gets a sufficient one for 2018. The Netherlands meets the requirements of the Stability and Growth Pact and the Sustainable Public Finance Act, but will the government also be able to meet the future intentions in the Millions Note from 2020 on and beyond? I read that the political choices made by the Rutte III cabinet, which we consider to be highly defendable, call for a form of civilized wrath, to name but a few, to the Council of State. The Council of State has concerns about discipline, the EMU balance of 3% and the 60% debt ratio. We have to keep an eye on them, but they're not steering anymore. Then, of course, the question arises: what is? Some years ago, Coen Teulings asked himself in ESB. I believe he was no longer CPB director at the time, which in times of prosperity is the disciplined anchor. Here too the danger of the metaphor is that you get caught up in it, because at an anchor you lie still and of course we are in motion, but the thought is legitimate. What are the lights you need to move forward in this new time when we're really not in the crisis anymore? Sometimes even the term "money against the plinths" was used. Take the blame, because of course that question also arises. Mr Van Apeldoorn's interruption with Mr Wever has already had a brief discussion about this. What is the right level of debt and what is the right bandwidth? The debt ratio is falling to 45% in 2020. Again, the scholars are divided about this. There is an interesting view of Calvinist economy by Professor Jacobs. He says it reduces long-term prosperity, because ultimately there has to be a decent supply of risk-free investments for banks and insurers. What is the Minister's view of the right middle course? Is debt reduction always better for the economy? The comparison with the housekeeping booklet........................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u11	I would like to return to my previous point. I am glad that I have listened to Mr Backer's speech even further. I know a lot about that and I think he is asking good questions to the Minister, referring to a recent analysis by Professor Jacobs. He asks questions to the Minister, but I am also curious as to what his answers would be. What is the direction of the D66 Group in terms of, for example, public debt and whether it should be brought down, for example now, at a time of negative government interest rates?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u12	Thanks for the question. We have been debating here for a number of years, so we know a bit about the positions. You know the D66 Group: during the entire period of rain and storm, to name it, we have been very strict on the discipline needed to get off the bench in the European Union. We have therefore been involved in putting the budget in order and in some of the measures that were necessary at the time. You can always look back to see if that was right or not. We chose to do that. We are now in a new phase and now there are open questions that I also open up. This shows that our group also does not consider that the debt ratio should by definition be 60% for the coming years. It is still quite complicated to defend that the budget balance should be positive. You don't have to. If you finally have to make the important transition choices and you have to spend on them, Mr Van Kesteren also talked about them, you should be able to finance them, and then it might well be that the budget deficit is running up a little bit and that the debt is also running up a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u13	I thank Mr Backer for this answer, which I find encouraging. I am glad that he is opening up these questions and that the D66 Group does not dwell on thinking either. I'm used to that, by the way. One more thing, though. Mr Backer also referred to the criticism of the Council of State and the CPB, referring to the European budgetary rules. Indeed, Mr Backer says that we have maintained that, and that was necessary at the time. My group does not share this analysis, but we do not need to have that debate now. Let me come back to the issue of negative government interest rates. Bas Jacobs and others have also said that these European budgetary rules must be brought to a halt, because they are actually losing their meaning in this new reality with negative interest rates. How does the D66 Group view this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u14	If you spend more time with each other, you'll get patterns. I am here to talk about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u15	Mr Backer refers to Mr Jacobs and Mr Teulings, and I am pleased to see that, because the analyses of these two are rather sharp. On the euro crisis, Jacobs says it is the same mistake as in the 1970s, but the other way around. The euro crisis has responded, massively, with supply policy in response to a demand crisis: crisis misunderstood, incorrect policy response. The structural situation, as you can see from Teulings... is that we are in a situation of an abundant amount of savings, from a number of countries within the euro area in particular. At the same time, households and companies are putting their balance sheets in order. That's what they've been doing in the past few years. The governments did the same. Then we find it strange that there is an ultra-low interest rate and blame Mr Draghi, where he does not belong. The only one, says Teulings, who can bring balance here, is the government. This is a role that the Japanese have also understood in times of ageing. That is what Jacobs and Teuling say: wrong response to the euro crisis and a wrong view of what we have to do at this time. Does Mr Backer agree with these gentlemen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u16	Of course, that's always the risk when you quote economists. Two economists also do not always have the same opinion, and one also had a responsibility, at the CPB, while the other could publish without hindrance. I have often spoken to Mr Jacobs at that time. I know his point of view. I think that in the whole debate on budgetary discipline sometimes it is an advantage if you are not an economist yourself, there are all kinds of economic theories, monetary and macroeconomic, and there is an element of European cooperation and discipline in it. I know that Mr Vendrik was the first to sign the letter of the 80 economists against the introduction of the euro in 1997, with former colleague Reuten, and that he has always been very critical of the operation of the euro. The euro has all kinds of disadvantages. It also has disadvantages in the way in which you conduct your macroeconomic policy nationally and also at European level. Eventually, I do not go as far as the criticism made by Professor Jacobs, among others, is the disaster that had been predicted, the devastating cuts in the Dutch economy, the stalemate in the European economy, the break-up of the euro area, all of which has not happened. There can always be a debate afterwards on how to do otherwise. That's hard, because then you have to compare what you could have done and what you've done. I believe that if you apply these economic theories, you can say that the Netherlands may have experienced a certain slowdown in growth. It's possible. At the same time, many other things have come back that are also important in terms of the credibility of the Dutch government, the investment climate and a number of other things. But I believe that we are now going to have an economic debate in a broad macroeconomic sense. Fine, but the gentlemen are much better at that than I am.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u17	I propose that Mr Backer continue his speech and that the interruptions be kept until the end of his speech, if you will.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u18	I was in the sustainability balance, which is now at the heart of European discipline because we are in the preventive part of the Stability and Growth Pact as a country. In a previous report, the Council of State referred to the European debate on structural fiscal policy, in particular on the recommendations of the European Fiscal Board. Let me come back to the point made by the previous two interruptions. The Fiscal Board's recommendation, built on the model of our own CPB, shows that controlled expenditure growth and responsible long-term debt development are more important and that more emphasis should be placed on the quality and sustainability of the budget than on controlling debt and budget rates, say the old instruments. The European Union itself has also continued to develop new policies in this area. This appeals to us, too. If I interpret that correctly, but it's still work in progress, it's more of a principle-based approach than a rule-based approach, to put it chic. I think that should support expenditure growth in the budget. That's what I miss in the Millions Note. I ask the Minister to support this, including in the future package and also in the answer to the questions that Mr Vendrik just asked about the effects of the Broad Prosperity. I hardly dare, but I would like to quote Bas Jacobs one more time, namely with a technical question. Is the discount rate of 3%, the high real discount rate, still real in view of the interest rates of the ten-year Dutch government bonds? If it isn't, what consequences does it have? I asked the Minister in writing for the methodology of the CPB. He said they're gonna keep it under review. My question is: are they going to light this up? He was only referring to the productivity tagnation, but it both seems important to me. Mrs Sent's interruption already raised the question of whether the CPB still has the right method in the projections. I am not questioning the quality and authority of the CPB. I only ask questions that could be of interest to us in the budgeting process. Mr. Chairman. The D66 Group cannot imagine that all the questions and signals from the municipalities, the Youth Services Inspectorate, the Donner Committee, the surcharges and the anticipation of the increase in healthcare costs will not lead to quite fundamental changes in the budget and the way we do things in this country. That costs money, that costs manpower. Then you get the question of how we're gonna do it in order and in time. How are we going to do extra expenses in order and on time? We can put it in the budget, but it must all be done. Are there enough renovations and reforms in the various budgets in areas where this is taking place? I do not see them in the budget yet. That's why my question was: quo vadis, Hoekstra? All these things play a role. Where's he going? How is he going to use his authority to do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u19	A quick question. I'm very curious about where we're going with Senator Backer, but I'm also curious about the current situation. At the moment it beeps and cracks in municipalities. Because of the particular looming errors in the system and the fact that the Empire does not spend the money that was planned, the municipalities are burdened with a very complex problem. I am very curious to see the possibilities that Senator Backer sees to accommodate municipalities already.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u20	It would be a great exaggeration of my role in this debate to have it ready here. I heard what you said. Across the street, in the House of Representatives, that debate was also held. Municipalities have sometimes benefited from the step-on-step approach, but in recent years the new tasks have proved to be disappointing. It's not in the budget. I can't magic it in now either. The point is real. If I recall correctly, across the street, the Segers motion of the Christian Union colleagues has been taken over, requesting that this be investigated. I'd say let's just wait and see before I say things that are too stressful here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u21	Assuming Mr. Backer is ready...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u22	I don't know if that's the case. Mr. Backer, are you almost done?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u23	I have an impressive number of papers in front of me, but only two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u24	Including the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u25	Yeah, I'm gonna keep it real short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u26	Perhaps this interruption will help you with some extra speaking time. We're gonna have to do it a little bit together here, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u27	Then I'm gonna step in.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u28	On the investment fund, the investment agenda and the words of Mr Backer, the future package, I have two questions. Question 1: Does Mr Backer agree with me that the investment or future agenda should be about the transitions that belong to the Broad Prosperity? I also heard some sympathy from the group of the CDA. Question 2 concerns the placement and financing of the relevant funding. I hear Mr Backer say that this should be given a place in the relevant budgets. Can he explain this in more detail, and what is the consequence of its funding? The idea of the fund is, of course, that Mr Hoekstra should be given Parliament room to borrow on the capital market at 0% interest for these investments. Is that thought still in Mr. Backer's mind?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u29	I also see Mr Van Apeldoorn making a start. However, I would ask Mr Backer to conclude his speech first, as we have just agreed. Mr Backer's speaking time has already more than doubled due to a considerable excess of interruptions. I ask Mr Backer to conclude. Then we can ask a few short questions and then we will move on to the next speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u30	Yes, this subject has certainly not been completed. Then I'd like to use the remaining time for a few points. Mrs Sent also mentioned the renovation of the financial sector. We have high private debts. The use of cash is decreasing. There is a concentration in the lack of diversity in the banking landscape. Buffers aren't high enough. What's the Minister gonna do with that? I agree with Mrs Sent's request on the letter from the Sustainable Finance Lab, which contains interesting things. There is also the question of what the role of government in the banking sector should and could be. Mr. Chairman. Finally, Europe's point, which must be brief. Mr Van Kesteren has already made a small introduction. I notice a defensive cabinet on this section. Then, of course, I am talking about the Multiannual Financial Framework, the subject that will provoke the wrath of Mr Van Strien and others. He rightly said 'and I support that point 'that the cost is for the benefit'. If we were not prepared to contribute something to a changing budget in a relative sense or in an absolute sense after the Brexit, and that contribution could be a little more than we are doing now, we cannot expect the budget to be adjusted in the direction we want. There are, of course, enough countries that want to maintain traditional posts. An offensive strategy does not, of course, exclude anything from the Dutch budget. That's something, too. Mr Van Kesteren called it coulance. Here again, I believe that Europe is part of the story of confidence in progress. And that's not free. You just have to believe that's where the right things happen. This is a very peculiar crisis that we are in. I'd say penny wise, pound foolish isn't gonna work here. There are so many cross-border problems that will have to be addressed. Mr. Chairman. I look forward to answering the Minister's questions and perhaps in the second term I can say something about Mr Vendrik, if I still have time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u31	You have 10 seconds left in the second term, so that should work. But first there was a question from Mr Vendrik, honest is fair. Do you want to go into that, or has it been answered?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u32	Mr President, I do not wish to go into this in detail. The discussion on this fund is taking place. The cabinet comes with a letter in the last quarter. The way in which this is organised and what the Minister of Finance is going to say about it, I look forward with great excitement. I and my group are open to all kinds of options, but what I am not open to is a fund that is being set completely at a distance and is going to evade the control of legislative power, the Chambers, on this. I think there's plenty of funds out there. The Court of Auditors has also published a report on the revolving funds. I think that's a point we should look at very carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u33	Mr. Van Apeldoorn, one short last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u34	I have been waiting for a while, but I would like to come back to those European budgetary rules. My group fully agrees with Mr Vendrik that that was the wrong answer to the crisis, because it was indeed a question crisis. But also, for example, former colleague Rinnooy Kan has drawn attention here to what he called the procyclical policy which, according to studies, has been conducted in the past. That pro-cyclical policy has also been pursued with the European budgetary rules in hand, hasn't it? This policy has deepened and extended the recession. Let us rest the past for a moment, but I also heard Mr Backer say that, as far as we are concerned, this budget balance may well become a budget deficit, in the context of this transition statement. Can I therefore count on Mr Backer when the European Commission says: wait a minute, which is contrary to current European budgetary rules? Is the D66 Group therefore open to question these budgetary rules in the context of this transition?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u35	What is going to help both Mr Van Apeldoorn and me, as well as the cabinet, is that these budgetary rules have been adapted and that much more is being looked at in terms of sustainable sustainability and controlled expenditure growth. This means that much more is being looked at than the old marks of -3% and 60% and the shelf life deficit of -0.5. That is also the question I asked the Minister. I actually think we... who was at the Helsinki Conference on the budgetary system? You can see that the European Commission is looking much more closely than in the past at the diversity of the causes of budget deficits and the accumulation of debt by the various countries. They have very different causes. You can see that the European Commission is going to take greater account of this in differentiation. You could say that might be a little late, but that's what's gonna happen now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u36	Thank you, Mr. Backer. I shall now give the floor to Mr Van Strien.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of my group, I congratulate Mr Vendrik on his maiden speech. Mr. Chairman. Mr Vendrik started in his speech with the beginning of the 20th century. I start in 1609, because exactly 410 years ago the merchants Nicolaas Puyck and Abraham van den Broek gave a letter from Prince Maurits to the shogun in Japan requesting that the Japanese ports be opened to the Dutch. That was the beginning of trade with Japan. The Dutch also got the privilege to go on an audience every year at the Shogun in Edo, the current Tokyo. On this court trip the shogun and other important authorities were honored by offering gifts. This court trip was an annual event from the island of Deshima from 1633 onwards. Instead of a privilege, however, that court trip became increasingly a burden over the years. That was because the journey was about 2,000 kilometers long, but mainly because the shogun was going to determine what kind of gifts he wanted to receive and how much the value should be. The shogun submitted a wish list in advance, the so-called demands of the emperor. In 1854, we were saved economically in Japan by the Americans, who broke open the Japanese market. Mr. Chairman. I had to think about this when I read a few weeks ago that the Dutch financial contribution to the European Union is threatening to increase by as much as 62.5% in the coming years. According to EU sources, the annual gross contribution will amount to €13 billion in 2027 if the shogun in Brussels and its officials get what they want. Of course, in six months' time, we will be told that our government has earned a billion dollars through brilliant negotiations and that we will have to pay them less to the 13 billion, because Brussels is literally and figuratively like an Arabic souk. They're asking for 5 billion more to bring in 3 or 4 billion. I admit that the distance from The Hague to the shogun in Brussels is about one tenth from the distance from Deshima to Edo. That's profit. On the other hand, the level of the payment has taken exorbitant forms in recent years. We do not yet talk about the contribution of the Netherlands to southern Europe that the euro brings with it. Then we are not talking about the total loss of independence, the invasion of immigrants that we must tolerate and the loss of self-respect. Then there is another fundamental difference. The payment to the Shogun in Edo was paid by those who, at least initially, benefited from it, such as the VOC, the traders and the companies. On the other hand, our participation in the EU is paid for by Henk and Ingrid. Their available family income is very low, also and especially in relation to the countries around us. The last few years have been years of economic growth. From 2010 to 2019, the economy grew by 12%. The collective burden pressure increased by almost 5%. It was not an endogenous increase, but that happened almost entirely politically, including with the insane Climate Agreement, to mention just one example. In the same period the rents became priceless, house prices rose to a level at which the ordinary Dutch, let alone a young family, was made completely impossible to buy a house and the available family income remained virtually stationary, as said. The interest rate dropped to zero, making your savings evaporated. Pensions have not been indexed at all, care for the elderly has been broken down and 38% of households are no longer around, due to the excessive cost of care. Finally, the agricultural sector, which is the best in the world, is now being overturned. We've been able to see that recently. This sector is followed by the construction sector. These are in themselves figures to be deeply ashamed of. It becomes more insightful, but also worse, if you ignore the figures on population growth. From the end of 2010 to the present day, so in nine years' time, a declining indigenous population increased the total population by 810,000 people. These were in the majority non-Western immigrants, and for the rest, they were migrant workers who mainly displaced low-skilled workers and reduced wages. Most non-Western immigrants are dependent on benefits and are therefore financed by tax revenues. By pumping money around, population growth alone is responsible for 5% increase in GNP. That is an increase where only this nice weathering cabinet and industry have something to gain, but Henk and Ingrid are not at all. They're just paying the bill. They can't start a family anymore because they can't rent or buy a house. They see their savings evaporate and rent and house prices rise to unprecedented levels. In fact, the higher profitability of business is not or hardly distributed as income to households. And after all these years of economic growth, of which the ordinary citizen didn't notice, the cabinet now comes with a few sweeteners. Charge relief for citizens of 3.4 billion. But in 2017, there was a surplus of about 10 billion euros. In 2018, there was a surplus of 12 billion. This year it will probably be EUR 14 billion. That's 36 billion euros too much collected tax money. And now we get less than 10% of that back. It's sweeteners that turn out to be acidic. The worst thing is that the period of economic growth seems to be over. Due to a low external wind, GDP growth is falling back in 2020, the Macro Economic Explorations already say on the front page. That low wind always comes from abroad; we know that by now. This government has taken care of the good and the bad comes from abroad. But this warning is, of course, mainly intended for people who find it too grievous what has happened in recent years. We belong to that category. The PVV is less impressed by this warning and feels that actual repairs are needed, especially in purchasing power. Mr. Chairman. That one mistake, last year, in the form of the deduction of the dividend tax, may have been corrected, but that other blunder, namely the increase in the low VAT rate from 6% to 9%, has still not been undone. It would be wise to reverse this blunder in all the surpluses that we now have through overtaxation. Mr. Chairman. This remark is all the more urgent because this government is already working on this insane climate agreement, whose costs are unmeasurable, as it will prove. According to the Macro Economic Explorations, they will be passed on to consumers for roughly three quarters in the long term. This seems to be a cautious estimate, because we believe that consumers will pay for the whole. Mr. Chairman. I'm getting to the euro. The fact that the PVV does not like the EU and the euro should be widely known. The question is, however, how long will this cabinet and this minister continue to defend the euro? Although the introduction explicitly precludes the European Central Bank from supporting individual countries, our Italian President of the ECB, Mr Draghi, has done nothing else. In a shameful way, he has repeatedly reduced interest rates to allow his Italian and other southern European friends to go deeper into debt free of charge. Fortunately, Draghi is gone, but we still have to see what we can expect from his French successor. Up to the last moment, Draghi has tried to keep up the impression that low or negative interest rates are intended to boost inflation to the 2% target, in order to stimulate the economy. Christiaan Sewing, the chairman of Deutsche Bank, recently said at a symposium in Frankfurt: "The negative interest rate will ruin the financial system." And he also reported that he no longer knew an economist who thinks that a further reduction in interest rates is still stimulating the economy. In any case, in the Netherlands, the low interest rates and the disastrous effect on pension fund coverage lead to a reduction in pensions, which will reduce the consumption of millions of people. In addition, because of expensive housing, families need so much money to live, that there is nothing left to consume. I would like to know from the Minister whether he thinks that negative interest rates can stimulate the economy and, if so, I would like to hear from him how that should work. If he agrees with all those top bankers who think that negative interest rates are disastrous for the financial system, then I ask him what he's going to do about this. At least he knows the PVV has the solution. Look, Southern European countries can never step out of the euro, because their currency would fall dramatically and their debt in euros would therefore rise to immeasurable heights. We can do that. Quite simply: go back to the guilder. That's the beginning of being boss again in your own country. Mr. Chairman. I'm coming to the pensions. In the Netherlands, they are based on the capital coverage system, unlike in most other European countries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u38	If Mr Van Strien makes such a far-reaching statement, I will of course take him seriously: back to the guilder. Does Mr Van Strien's group have a plan for how this will work out, how the unbundling from the euro will take place, what it will cost, what deadlines it will take and what consequences it will have for purchasing power?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u39	A few years ago, our party ordered a renowned agency to investigate that. It is certainly not the case that at present a plan has been drawn up in such a way that it could happen from today to tomorrow, but we are convinced that such a transition would be very beneficial to the Netherlands in the longer term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u40	We are in the General Financial Reviews, so conviction is important. You have to believe in something, but of course it's also about the calculations. That report you're quoting is well-known and widely discussed. All these subjects are very schematic. I take you seriously, but we've also seen what fact free politics mean across the Channel. So I would say: if you really think this is serious, then you should also explain to the people, and also here in the budget talks, what is the alternative. You shouldn't make easy announcements.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u41	You can see what resistance Brexit causes especially on this side of the Channel. If you see how this Brexit is being countered in Europe, then I think you really need to think longer about this exit from the euro than we can do here. I agree with Mr Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u42	Mr President, I consider that to be a profit from this exchange.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u43	And with that, of this little interrupt debate. Mr Vendrik also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u44	I would like to ask a brief supplementary question. I now understand that Mr Van Strien sometimes goes in good company with top bankers. That's what he just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u45	I quoted them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u46	That's what he just said about negative interest rates. Can he call me one top banker who is in favour of shutting down the euro?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u47	The same report I have just mentioned includes a very sound analysis. It says on the basis of which we could go to the guilder. That is certainly not something you have to do without proper preparation, but I think that in the long term we will not escape a transition from the euro to the guilder at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u48	You will continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u49	Mr. Chairman. I'm coming to the pensions. Unlike most other European countries, our pensions are based on the capital coverage system. Of all pensions paid in the Netherlands, on average more than 50% consists of returns by pension funds realised on the total contributions paid. The pension funds are therefore more than double the contributions received. That is the advantage of our capital cover system. That is why we have a system of capital cover. Mr. Chairman. I know that believing today is a difficult subject for CDAs, but I would like to ask the Minister the fundamental question as to whether he still believes in the funded pension system. In the case of an interest rate of zero or close to zero, a pension fund must at least receive everything it pays for pensions as a contribution. At least, because it has to manage the money, too, with an expensive overhead. In that case, the capital cover system is virtually useless and it is better to switch to a pay-as-you-go system as soon as possible. Young people would have to pay more than double their current pension contributions in the current system of capital cover, based on a zero calculation rate, in order to get a decent pension. On the road to a pay-as-you-go system, total pension assets are no longer relevant, and you can start by paying out pensioners their 15% deficit, which they have accumulated over the last ten years. Furthermore, you can pay them a well-being pension, as most of the current pensioners were promised at the start of their work. I note that such an operation will produce a barely visible ripple in the total pension assets. If, on the other hand, you do believe in the capital coverage system, you use a calculation rate that is derived from the actual return, with a discount for the risk of decreasing that return. Zero or almost zero can't be that arithmetic rate, if you believe in the capital coverage system. Thus, even then, pensioners do not need to be reduced and pensions can even be indexed. To sum up, my questions to the Minister are as follows. Does he still believe in the capital coverage system? If so, how does he reconcile that with an arithmetic rate that goes towards zero? If not, when can we expect action? I await the Minister's answers to these and earlier questions with interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u50	Thank you, Mr. Van Strien. There's been an interruption by Mrs. Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u51	I thought I'd wait, because maybe Henk and Ingrid will come back. 'Cause I happen to know Henk and Ingrid. Henk is my colleague, Henk van Houten. He was married to Ingrid, now they're divorced. They have written a piece in the NRC of 10 May 2010, in which they say that they are in solidarity with several Dutch people in our country, are in solidarity with countries around us where things are less good, that they think borders are arbitrary. So I wonder how Mr. Van Strien's argument fits into this Henk and Ingrid, which I assume are the ones he's referring to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u52	Our Henk and Ingrid are primarily concerned with the importance of the Netherlands. Our Henk and Ingrid want to trade with the whole world and with all of Europe. I can tell you: if you look at the great economic growth we have experienced in the Netherlands, you will see that that was in the 1990s, when the borders opened in an economic sense. Since the introduction of the euro, this whole growth has just stagnated. Certainly our party, the PVV, is very much for an open world, a world in which we trade with everyone. We are not in favour of a world in which borders no longer exist and in which everyone can invade this country indefinitely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u53	I would like to conclude by warmly recommending to Mr Van Strien that Henk and Ingrid read that piece of opinion about the perspective they are sketching.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u54	NRC, 2010.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u55	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u56	Thank you, Mr. Van Strien. I call Mr Ester.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u57	Mr. Chairman. Congratulations to colleague Vendrik with his beautiful maiden speech. The million-dollar note has a janus head. The front shows a sunny financial picture of an economy that looks good, is still growing a little and has little unemployment. Public debt is falling below 50% of GDP, tax revenues are increasing and, if I have counted correctly, we have a budget surplus for the fifth year. In Europe, too, our country is making the right lists. The back of the jargon is much more gloomy and shows a picture of turbulence from the trade war between the United States and China, from geopolitical tensions, from economic downturn in neighbouring Germany, from the worrying public finances in Italy and from the unrelenting brexit problems. A new economic crisis is not unthinkable and will once again hit our country hard as an open economy. Then it will have to show how crisis-proof our economy is. The Christian Union Group therefore regrets that this Millions note was not accompanied by a new shock test analysis. Isn't it wise to do that every year? I thought Mr Vendrik was also reasoning along those lines. In this context, I would also ask for a response to the IMF's warning to the euro area to take more preventive measures to arm ourselves against an economic shift. Mr. Chairman. These Financial Reviews are held against the dramatic background of nitrogen crisis and building crisis. Solving this will cost time and, above all, a lot of money. My group is asking about the impact of this on the 2020 budget. To what extent is this Millions note still up to date? The Christian Union Group welcomes, with other groups, the dominance of the broad concept of prosperity in the Millions Note. We still have to find our way to integrate that, but the first steps have been taken. Together with other groups, we have worked hard for this. It gives a much more complete picture of the up and down of the Netherlands. It shows a country that is at its core, but also has major challenges in implementing the Climate and Pension Agreement, housing market, migration and keeping public services in order. Fortunately, there is no derailing income inequality. Purchasing power will improve next year by around 2% as a result of government policy and rising wages. Mostly among those in work, some less among those entitled to benefits and pensioners. Fortunately, we also see that the middle class will benefit a little more. Mr. Chairman. The most striking thing about this Millions note is that the government buries the iron salmon standard after about 25 years. A standard that makes a strict distinction between revenue and expenditure in the context of anti-cyclical fiscal policy. This Millions note extends the budgetary frameworks for additional investments. Now, of course, the Minister has the lower interest rates, the higher tax revenues and the falling state debt on his side, but the paradigm change is going a bit fast and above all very quiet. The Council of State was clearly "not amused." If we change course, what we are allowed to do, if the salmon standard is not set in the Constitution, then we must do so rationally, and not let that happen a little sneaky......................................................................................................................................................................................................... During his first two Financial Reviews, I was allowed to discuss with the Minister the principles of the Joseph economy: provide buffers for bad times in good times and keep the hand on the edge. He turned out to be, I remember, a warm supporter of that. Has the new enlargement policy allowed the Minister to abandon his previous financial prudence? The deterioration of the structural EMU balance next year is not without concern. Just a little push and we'll go under the European standard. Yesterday's MLT estimate by the CPB doesn't make it very cheerful either. Purchasing power is falling to zero from 2025 and the ageing population is now really starting to tick. The collective healthcare expenditures also pointed out that others continued to grow and climb to as much as 100 billion in 2025. Does not letting go of the salmon standard undermine the administrative stability and financial direction of the minister himself? How does this relate to the government agreement, which refers to the consolidation of current budgetary standards? The salmon standard is not sacrosanct, but we do need budgetary frameworks that we stick to. What new standard are we going to apply, I ask the Minister. Mr. Chairman. Savers feel paralyzed by the threat of negative interest on their assets. In the Lower House, the Minister indicated that he did not feel that a ban on negative interest rates would be imposed as in some other countries in the meantime, but wanted to enter into talks with the banks first. I understand that this conversation has taken place and I would like to hear the results of it. What options are there? ABN AMRO is now on the move. The psychological thumping of negative interest rates on savers will come hard and gnaw at confidence in our financial institutions. The word "confidence" has often come by this morning and this afternoon. That distrust is bad for our country, especially after a financial crisis that has hit all Dutch people. This low interest rate affects many files, especially the pension file. That was also discussed. My group shares the concerns of pensioners about the threat of a reduction. We, too, look forward to the letter sent by the cabinet this afternoon on this issue. Although the group of pensioners as a collective is not poor, it is a bad thing that we have been keeping them on the sidelines for about ten years now. This is not good for social cohesion. That is not good for a generation that has been so decisive for the post-war construction of our country. At the same time, we have to note that the debate on arithmetic interest also affects a group that is not at the table: the youngest generation of Dutch people. Their interests must be much more central in the pension debate, including in this house. Does the Minister share this approach? Intergenerational justice is a great asset and my group will consistently assess new proposals on the calculation rate on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u58	I thought I'd interrupt, so Mr. Ester could have a sip of water. But seriously. Let's talk about the low interest rate. I understand that Mr Ester sees it as a problem. It is also a problem for savers and pensioners. But what is the cause of this low interest rate in Mr Ester's analysis and could we do something about it in Europe and in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u59	It has many causes, of course. It is not just a question of the ECB doing naughty things in Frankfurt. The interest rate has been falling for about 25 years. That, I think, is an important comment we have to make. The ECB has, of course, played an important role in reducing the rate of calculation, in which you can ask how effective that has been. The answer to that is not only positive. In this debate, it is mainly about the consequences of this rate of calculation. This applies to the pension, but it also applies to other files.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u60	I agree with Mr Ester that the debate should be about the consequences, but I would like to return to the causes. I am glad that Mr Ester says that it is not just the ECB. I would like to return to this morning's debate. One of the analyses you could make is that it is also because too much is spared, for example in a country like the Netherlands. Mr Vendrik already referred to the macroeconomic imbalance. The Netherlands has a huge trade surplus. There are also structural causes. It's not just about the Netherlands. You are right to say that this has been the case for 25 years, including in other countries, which are not covered by the ECB. But that may also require a different kind of macroeconomic policy and financial and economic policy, also here to land.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u61	We can talk about that for a long time, but then you should also tell us what your image of it is. That is not quite clear to me. With me the one sentence resonates: too much is spared in the Netherlands. That's what you said in your speech. That's the kind of statement I always have to get used to. People don't save for fun. They do that because they have a certain reason for it, for example because they feel financial uncertainty and want to cover themselves against things that may go wrong in the future. I'm just saying non-economically: too much saving, I don't think that's such a strong expression.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u62	Mr Van Apeldoorn, the last.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u63	Because Mr. Ester is asking me about my vision...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u64	I didn't say I wanted the answer, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u65	No, but I'll give it to you anyway. Of course, people are saving for very good reasons, but it is now a macro-economic analysis. There are also very large private debts in the Netherlands. That goes together, and that is also a problem, also on an individual level. The answer to the problem of surplus savings should, of course, be investment. They can only come from the government in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u66	I will be talking about investment in a moment. In fact, we have already talked about this a lot, when it was about Invest-NL and the investment fund. I am going to make a few specific comments on that. Thank you for that. The Minister has committed himself to the concerns of the middle class in our country. The million-dollar note bears witness to that. My group is calling for attention to be paid to the group that has just gone against this: working Dutch people living in poverty. The SCP report If work is low, it gives a first picture of this group of working poor. These are mainly flex workers and some groups ofzzp'ers. It is a group that sometimes pulls at the shortest end in the tombola of surcharges. Do the rulers have this group of "working poor" on the retina and are there any ideas within the cabinet how to offer this vulnerable group relief? Poverty, whether you work or not, is horrible and we must do everything we can to prevent it. That certainly applies to child poverty, a black spot on our prosperity blazing. It is not to be digested by my group that the cabinet has such difficulty in formulating a quantitative objective to combat child poverty. One in nine children lives in poverty. Unbelievable, actually! We have quantitative reduction targets in many policy areas. Why can't we do that with this file? I can't understand that. The cabinet really needs to get more out of the closet. This Chamber has passed wise motions on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u67	Mr Ester asked the cabinet for an idea to do something about the position of working poor. Wonderful question. I have an idea. The top rate that is reduced, we just bring it back to the old level and the money we collect with it, we take it to the bottom. Excellent measure for working poor. Agreed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u68	At least it's worth exploring. By the way, it is not just the lower group you mention. It is not always the lower group in the income distribution. It's just the group that's facing the middle class. That has to do with fiscal incentives. It also has to do with the supplement tombola we were just talking about. That's very dynamic data. They are not statistical reflections of a situation. One year people have care allowance or rent allowance and the other year they don't. That tombola, that variety, is just leading to the problem that you and I are talking about and for which a solution must be found for the working poor. I'm looking for solutions within the fiscal domain. I am, of course, very interested in how the rulers see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u69	I am listening to Mr Ester's speech on poverty. Everyone will immediately say: of course it is idiotic that we tolerate this. At the same time, I believe that realism must also be involved in the fact that the reasons why people enter poverty and the circumstances surrounding it are very diverse. That's what you just said. I also know Mrs Duflo's research, to which Mr Sent referred. She indicates that she does all kinds of field research that shows that there is an incredibly diverse problem, which also raises several questions: how should you do that policy-wise? Now here's my question. We just had the deactivation of the quota levy in the Participation Act. If we are going to do something again, which is said to be "sympathetic, so we have to do it, quantify it and a little less every year," I am so afraid that you will find yourself in the same kind of dynamic. What does Mr Ester think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u70	I don't believe that, at least not the last one. I'd like to take over that first one. The SCP report itself indicates that it is a fairly heterogeneous group. Unlike that deactivation you're talking about, these are just people with jobs. They just work. They're not waiting for a job because they have a job. They're working. They run into this wall of tax incentives which, in their case, are just wrong. It's a group of people who are benevolent in life. They have a job and they want to work, but they can't make it. The question to the cabinet is: do you recognise this problem, do you think it is a problem at all and what can we do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u71	Finally. We had the presentation of the Tax Plan yesterday. We know that part of this problem is also caused by the offset points in the tax rebate and all other discounts. So that plays through it; but well, I'm waiting for the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u72	And they're shifting a little bit now, so that's profit, you might say. Mr. Chairman. The purchasing power gap between one earner and two earners has been a thorn in the eye of my group for years. In particular, the general tax rebate and the labour rebate are a factor in this respect. The difference in marginal pressure between the two groups cannot be explained. Fortunately, the cabinet also experiences this gap as painful and does not want to increase the differences further. That's close. That's how we saw it. The question remains as to what scope the rulers still see to reverse the unequal treatment of one- and two-earners, even after the investigation that has been deported. Which of the presented policy variants would be preferred? The cabinet story goes out here, with all due respect, a little bit like a night candle. Let me put it a little more clearly and take a different approach: are the tax rebate and the labour rebate not at the end of their tax Latin to promote labour force participation? Are they effective at all? My group is also pleased that families with children can count on a substantial increase in purchasing power of 2.6%, the highest improvement of all groups. Mr. Chairman. Then a brief look at the European playing field. The German Finance Minister recently put forward proposals on how to establish a European deposit guarantee scheme to complete our banking union. How does the Minister judge this German twist? After all, we went together with Germany. Will the Netherlands be isolated by this? At the heart of the opposition to this guarantee system is the fact that strong countries are responsible for the policies of weak countries. How does the Minister indicate the more precise Dutch position? And how does he imagine the completion of the Banking Union? Over the last few weeks, there has been a critical debate about the Dutch contribution to the European Union. There is, as I say from my mind, about 5 billion differences between the Brussels and The Hague calculations. The Minister was accused by Brussels of misinformation to Dutch citizens. Those are pretty big words. My group is pleased to receive an appreciation of the situation that has arisen. Mr. Chairman. Many parties have taken note of the new investment fund, a fund that aims to strengthen the long-term earning capacity of the Netherlands. The main point of discontent is the lack of a concrete plan and a concrete budget. My group understands this, but it is also affected by the ambitions of that future fund. We need to develop and maintain our innovation potential, make our economy sustainable and keep it competitive. We also want to ensure that future generations of young people have a good future. The Netherlands may need to think about a big round. The earning model would be excellent to take that broad concept of prosperity as a guideline. I would like to stress that we should not only involve interest groups which are well-established, but also, above all, new and young players. I mention the vibrant Dutch start-up world, which will certainly want to offer its thinking power. I call it the inspiring world of social entrepreneurship. The Christian Union Group is curious whether the Minister recognizes himself in this appeal and would like to play a mediation role in it. Mr President, I shall conclude. The 2020 budget contains much that is grateful. All groups are improving and the purchasing power differences are not derailing. About 3 billion is available for household relief and a lot of money goes to public services. But internationally there are major concerns that, if things go wrong, will hit the Dutch economy firmly. Prudent budgetary policy remains necessary. The Christian Union Group wishes both rulers much wisdom and God's blessing in keeping public finances in order. I look forward to the answers to our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u73	Thank you, Mr. Ester. I call Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u74	Mr President, thank you. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Vendrik on his beautiful maiden speech. More than eleven years after the outbreak of the financial and economic crisis, the failure of our economic system may become even more apparent than during the crisis itself. The crisis was the failure of the neoliberal model, although it did not, as it turned out this morning, reach everyone. But in the meantime, the capitalist system itself is also under discussion. That capitalism criticism has now become the mainstream of the political debate, something which my group naturally greatly encourages, apart from the aftermath of the crisis itself, has various causes. One reason lies in the growing awareness of the climate crisis and the realization that it can never be solved within a free market dominated economy. It also has to do with the fact that the acute crisis is over, but there are still doubts about the underlying strength of the economy, and that, according to many, the danger of a future financial system crisis is still lurking. But perhaps the main cause of the emerging capitalism criticism lies in the fact that the economy is growing again, but the people and society, despite the promises of this government, are still far too few of them. Mr. Chairman. Three years ago, I noticed in this place that the budget deficit had been reduced but the deficits in society had risen. We are now three years ahead and the budget deficit has now turned into a surplus, but the social deficits are still the same. Discontent and unrest are growing for a reason. Profits are rising, but wages have been lagging behind for three decades now. In capitalism, economic recovery does not automatically benefit those people who need it most and who have had to turn in the most, on the contrary; nor does the recovery itself benefit from meeting social needs. This requires politics, a government that does more than just adjust existing policies. A government that dares to choose another course, which opposes the beacons, and structural reforms for the sake of a more just economy. Mr. Chairman. The fact that the criticism of neoliberalism and of capitalism in general, for my party a spearhead, has now been widely shared for decades, is immensely hopeful. Wide, but it can be even wider, as I say to Mr Knapen. But now we want concrete actions: show courage and dare to make the right choices. Choices that we do not yet see sufficiently in this Millions note. As far as the SP Group is concerned, this cabinet and this minister make the wrong choice when it comes to budgetary policy themselves. Even if the cabinet recognizes the need for more investment, in the end it is unnecessarily held back. For years, institutes like the IMF have been calling on the northern countries of the euro area to use this as well, but the Dutch government remains committed to dogmatic Calvinism. Ergo, let me just say to Mr Backer: we still do not see enough of this change of course. For the third year in a row, there are so many billions left that are taken away from the economy and society. This year, that's over 10 billion. That is what we are paying off even more of the state debt, whereas the interest burden of 0.7% of public expenditure has never been so low and the government even receives money with negative interest rates.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u75	Mr Van Apeldoorn asked me a number of times about the standards of Europe's budget and standards. We talked a bit along each other because I saw a change of course he didn't see. I was just thinking about that, and I think that's because he might want another relationship in the change of course. That is why I would like to know the following from him. When would there be enough change in the SP's mind? And at what budget deficit and at what level of debt would he really speak of a change of course that would fit within the SP policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u76	I thank Mr Backer for this good question. It is, of course, difficult to talk in general about what budget deficit, because that depends on the situation and the economic situation. The SP is very much in favour of sustainable public finances. So it makes no sense to say that we can only spend indefinitely. But I do think that we should enter into a fundamental discussion on this, also in the light of new developments such as the structurally low interest rates and also in the light of studies on what is going on in Japan, for example. The public debt there is, I believe, 200%. Everyone has said that this is unsustainable, but it appears to be sustainable in Japan for the time being. I'm not saying we should go there. Reference was made earlier to Sweden, where government debt is only 25%. On the other hand, Japan, a country with a huge ageing population, where public debt is 200% and inflation is equally low. I think that raises questions. Let's do more research on that, too. I also ask the Cabinet to take a serious look at that. We have long assumed 60% in the EU as the maximum. We're still assuming that. There are also economists now who say that with low interest rates and an ageing population, perhaps 90% is optimal. I'm not gonna pin myself on a percentage right now, but I think it's important that the mind doesn't stand still. We need to think about that. If you ask me what is an acceptable budget deficit at the moment, then I would say: it would be fine if we now went to a budget deficit of 1% or 2%; public finances would then remain sustainable. At least there's nothing wrong with that. An important accounting law is that public finances are sustainable as long as interest rates do not increase more than nominal economic growth. And they are according to those insights right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u77	Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u78	So not borrowing, but redeeming costs money. It's the reverse world, but it's reality. Well, then it's just a stupid discharge, isn't it? I'd like to get a response from the Minister. This country is crying for more public investment, from both a social and an economic point of view. But this minister prefers to reduce public debt even further. I really don't understand any of this. Or should all this come from the currently mysterious investment fund, which is not yet part of this Millions Note? When it comes to the investment fund, the realization that we are in a different reality with this structurally low interest rate seems to have got through to this minister. This is commendable, but it is difficult to reconcile with the fact that this minister does not want to spend any more money on tackling social problems that we are currently facing. Two weeks ago, 3,000 schools closed their doors because this government refuses to tackle the crisis in primary education structurally. The teachers were rightly not allowed to leave with an occasional amount. Why does this government choose to retain 10 billion, while classes are sent home or are taught by unauthorized teachers because of the shortage of teachers? Mr. Chairman. Apart from a shortage of teachers, this country is suffering from a large shortage of social housing, but here too, the investments needed are not being made. Fortunately, the term "people's housing" is now being used more and more often, also by the CDA within the coalition. That everyone should be able to live decently should be a matter of course in a prosperous and decent country like the Netherlands. So don't leave that to the market. But what is the plan of this cabinet to house the people? Why is so little happening? Why are we still stuck with this miserable landlord tax, which puts such a brake on the necessary investments? I'd like to get a response from both regiments. Recently, we read in the newspaper that one in three children lives in an unhealthy house, one in three people, but this cabinet remains on its hands, or rather, on the money. Why is the cabinet not willing to invest in our housing here too? Mr. Chairman. This cabinet, too, chooses to increase the differences rather than reduce them. Partly through the introduction of the dual-disk system, the expected increase in purchasing power will be the strongest for higher incomes. The people in the lowest quintile advance 1.4%. In the highest quintiles, the increase is well above 2%. This minister is also talking about the middle class nowadays, but why does he lower the top rate by no less than 2.25% and raise the rate for the first disc? Why, precisely, relieve the burden of the strongest shoulders? Mr. Chairman. This morning we read in the newspaper that the pay gap between men and women has even increased again. Speaking of inequality. What is the government doing about this? The cabinet has been wise enough to postpone the proposed reduction of the high rate of VAT by one year, but as long as there is no delay, my group can only conclude that, in practice, this cabinet is not really going to say goodbye to the neoliberal economic model, whereby the cake between labour and capital is becoming increasingly shaky. I would like to hear from the Minister why he continues to choose this. Why does he want to use the cash register of the big companies even more, when they actually pay so little tax? New research has also shown this recently. I referred to that this morning. Mr. Chairman. Despite the end of the 2014 recession, poverty in our country has hardly declined in recent years and, in particular, the number of long-term poor and the number of children growing up in poverty has remained scandalously high. The colleague of the Christian Union, Mr Ester, referred to this earlier. That number is still high. Here too, structural policy is needed on the basis of clear objectives, but the cabinet refuses to implement the wish of a large majority of this Chamber to achieve a reduction target in relation to child poverty, as laid down in the Kox motion. This minister promised me during the 2017 General Financial Reviews to "make this motion a serious one." Of course, the government should always work seriously on a motion from this Chamber. In fact, the government is supposed to carry it out. I would therefore ask the Minister to discuss his promise again with the Secretary of State of SZW. While poverty is falling slowly in the Netherlands, the wealth at the top is increasing. That wealth is also taking on ever more extreme forms. Recently there was the news that the number of billionaires in our country has risen to record levels and that the capacity of the Quote 500 has increased with double digits. And that in a year when real wages fell. How does the Minister feel about this? Does he think that this is just part of our capitalist free market economy, or does he see a social problem here? For many years my group has been calling on this Minister and this Secretary of State to pay attention to the extreme lack of capacity in our country, but this cabinet is refusing to do anything about it, even though it would be too easy. Criticism of capitalism is becoming very gratuitous. Isn't there a corrective task for the government here? I'd like to get a reaction to that. Mr. Chairman. These are confusing times. Parties to the right of the middle and ministers of that house take over the language of the SP. Of course, we are pleased, because it indicates that neoliberalism is definitely on its way, but when it comes to the financial and economic policy of this government, I say: not words, but deeds. Sometimes I get the fear that they're just empty words. My group, for example, was frankly bewildered by the fact that the Prime Minister, during the General Political Reviews in this Chamber, was performing to re-define the copied abolition of the dividend tax as something he still regarded as a sensible measure. However, the resistance was simply too great at this point. So no moving insight at all, no growing awareness at all that with gifts to multinationals and their shareholders, you're not going to make sure everyone really sees the recovery: it's just a matter of cool political calculation. Does the Minister still think that the abolition of the dividend tax is a sensible proposal, or is the Prime Minister really alone here? Mr. Chairman. I would also like to say a few words about the IRS. This issue has already been brought to our attention this morning as a result of the harsh findings on childcare allowances. The most recent revelations, frankly, show that it's a shameful mess. It's time for a plan of action. I ask the Minister and in particular the Secretary of State for their views. Is it not time for a fundamental review of the system when it comes to the trade-off circus? It has also been discussed this morning by Mr Van Kesteren. But at least it's time for a clean ship at the IRS. Finally, a recurring theme. I would like to know from the Minister what is the situation eleven years after the outbreak of the financial crisis in preventing the following. What else does the Minister think should be done to make our banks and financial markets truly safe and serviceable? Mr President, I will conclude. Criticism of our economic system is a prerequisite for progress, but then we also need to change the system in practice. My party has put forward many good proposals for this, such as the introduction of a golden share for a better balance between labour and capital. Unfortunately, such structural reforms are not yet to be expected from this cabinet. Instead, it chooses to increase inequality further, neglects large-scale investment to eliminate social deficits and allows multinational companies to continue to look forward to a lower tax on profits. We also hear encouraging sounds within the bosom of this cabinet that point to a new direction of thought. Perhaps it will also translate into a new policy for the next Millions Note. In the meantime, we await the answers of the Minister and the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u79	Thank you, Mr. Van Apeldoorn. I shall then give the floor to Mr Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u80	Thank you, Mr President. We are in the biggest crisis of the last nine years, according to the Prime Minister. A crisis caused by the government itself by the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen. When Esther Ouwehand van de Partij voor de Dieren asked the architects of the PAS, Ger Koopmans, Diederik Samsom and Secretary of State Henk Bleker, at the introduction, what they thought would be the consequences if their calculation method did not stand up in court, Ger Koopmans' answer was: "then our entrepreneurs would have been able to take advantage of it for a few years." In other words, don't ask how, but take advantage of it. Mr. Chairman. I would like to offer the Minister and the Secretary of State some practical solutions to get out of the impasse. Last week in this house, by a large majority, the motion was adopted to end further subsidies on wood co-incineration in coal-fired power stations as soon as possible. But that is just the beginning of what is needed to end the error of biomass combustion. More and more government advisory bodies come to the conclusion that biomass is no cleaner at all than burning natural gas or even coal. On the contrary. Biomass plants are 20% to 100% dirtier and, moreover, they cannot be made profitable without subsidies. In particular, the many hundreds of small biomass plants without adequate filtering systems pose a threat to public health and nature. With biomass, we're gonna be hit by rain. The biomass system has the same problem as the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen: it is life on the puff, now burning and hoping that we will compensate for emissions later. Everyone knows that cutting trees goes much faster than growing a new forest. The available biomass is over-demanded two to four times, and this will require large-scale imports of wood to satisfy the hunger of hundreds of biomass plants, without a proper certification system to determine the origin and quality of that biomass. Over the last few weeks, we have been flooded with emergency letters from nature conservationists, not only from the Netherlands but also from the United States, who are deeply concerned about their forests being hijacked to be stowed from us. That is why I would ask the two leaders to stop granting applications for new biomass plants in the new SDE round, which has just been closed, and to do so for new SDE+ rounds. Is the Cabinet prepared to make such a commitment? I'm considering a motion on this point. Mr. Chairman. A second concern is the emission of nitrogen from livestock farming. We understand that farmers feel betrayed by the fact that they have been given room to expand their businesses over the past few decades by the cabinet. They have sometimes made major commitments to this end, for which they had to go deep into debt. Every day five to seven farms stop, and that's not because they have their sheep on dry land. At the same time, livestock farming accounts for 46% of national nitrogen emissions. The Animal Party is of the opinion that a warm clean-up with a lasting drastic reduction in the number of animals should be at the heart of the policy to combat the nitrogen crisis. The government is trying to save the cabbage and goat by proposing to feed the cows in order to reduce methane and nitrogen emissions, which makes livestock farming even more unnatural than it already was and has not been proven and is highly criticised by farmers. However, subsidies are already being put forward by the cabinet in a flight forward. The same applies to investments in so-called environmentally friendly stables. These emit as many emissions as non-emission low-emission stables, according to research carried out by the Central Statistical Office, and are therefore not going to make any contribution to solving the problem. Is the government prepared to say that no subsidies will be granted to such unproven methods, but that all the funds earmarked for the reform of livestock farming will be used to compensate farmers for a permanent reduction in the number of animals kept? I'm considering a motion on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u81	A very short question. So what's to happen to these animals?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u82	I am very pleased that Mr Schalk is asking that question, because that is indeed a big misunderstanding that is alive. Many people think that if you reduce livestock farming, livestock, the number of animals, a lot of animals would have to go to slaughter. That is not the case. If you stop breeding for three months, the problem will be solved. That is how hard the rotational speed of livestock farming in this country is. The third solution I would like to offer the Cabinet to get out of the biggest crisis of this decade is the young-timer scheme.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u83	I'm stunned by those three months. Three months to stop breeding, and then what? In other words, does that mean that Mr Koffeman assumes that after three months all these animals are gone or something? They're already alive, aren't they?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u84	It is indeed astonishing how many animals we slaughter and breed in this country. That's almost impossible to imagine, so I share your bewilderment, but equally if you stop breeding, the herd is halved after three months. This is how fast the rotational speed of the number of animals goes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u85	The last for Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u86	I can still imagine that in chickens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u87	Yeah, that's the bulk of the cattle in this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u88	We also have a few cows in this country and so on. If you're gonna halve them all, too... After three months of breeding, that's all gone? I think that is too short a reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u89	I would like to put Mr Schalk on the spot on a different occasion than this one. I will do so in the short term. But it's true. And indeed, the largest proportion of slaughtered and bred animals in this country is the chickens. But if you know how little time these animals have in life, then any initiative to protect life should be on our side. In that sense, I am really looking forward to your solidarity in protecting life and creation or whatever other understanding you want to link to it. I had stuck to the third solution that I would like to present to the cabinet in order to get out of the biggest crisis of this decade. That's the youngtimer scheme for business cars. It is the firm intention of the cabinet to use a larger electric vehicle fleet to have less polluting cars with internal combustion engines, especially diesel cars, on the road. Now there is a curious fact. Electric cars subsidised with a large amount of public money, which are driven in business, disappear in mass, after the five-year lease period. This is because abroad there are often premiums for the purchase of these cars and it has been made extremely unattractive in the Netherlands to continue driving an electric car over five years old. At the same time, many polluting cars are still being imported to the Netherlands, because it is attractive to drive such an old car via the youngtimer scheme. That can be thousands of euros cheaper per year than driving a clean electric car. This problem can be solved in a very simple and possibly budget-neutral way by excluding the most polluting cars, old diesels, from the youngtimer scheme and then opening it to electric cars older than five years old. This can ensure that entrepreneurs continue to drive their electric cars longer, that a second-hand market is created within our borders and that nitrogen emissions will be significantly reduced. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. I am also considering a motion on this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u90	Thank you, Mr. Coffeeman. I call Mr Otten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u91	Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Vendrik on his maiden speech earlier today. We have recently witnessed an interesting political phenomenon: the importance of the First Chamber is increasing politically in fast-track shipping. Where matters in the House of Representatives are carefully hammered off, sometimes even by unanimous vote, the Upper Chamber or at least a number of political groups fortunately comes to progressive insight and reflection. Let me give you an example of the bill of authorisation for the creation of Invest-NL, the play fund of Wouter Bos. Even the Forum for Democracy and initially the Party for Animals voted for this in the House of Representatives. Something similar we saw happen with the nitrogen bypass. With a motion, our Group-GO called on the cabinet on 29 October to rationalise the Natura 2000 sites as one of the solutions to the nitrogen crisis. Although this nitrogen motion of GO was not adopted in this Chamber, even though VVD leader Jorritsma called it a sympathetic motion in her explanation of vote, within a few weeks the coalition took over and even became cabinet policy. That's what you see. With common sense and realism in the Upper House, political stalemates in the Lower House can also seem to suddenly be broken. Last week this Chamber also voted by a large majority in favour of the Coffeeman motion of the Party for Animals. It intended to stop subsidies of 11.4 billion for the lunatic wood aid in coal-fired power stations. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats signed this motion as the first group. Soon after, she received broad support; only the VVD eventually voted against. Mr. Chairman. Victory begins in the First Chamber. Let's continue with this new, regained political dynamic of the First Chamber. Today we are discussing the proposed tax measures of the Rutte cabinet for 2020. Our group has studied and assessed the plans in detail. It summarizes the measures as too little too late. What we are currently witnessing in Dutch politics is a system that is completely stuck in its own models, in passed micromanagement and in impenetrable, self-created legal jungles. If, like us, you ever talk to people outside The Hague, you hear that many people have the idea that the politicians in The Hague are playing some sort of virtual reality game. They seem trapped in an absurdistic play, where nothing is what it seems and everything has become inimitable. Politics has made the direction of this country so unnecessarily complicated that politics itself does not seem to be aware of what it is doing anymore. The system has been made far too complex, unnecessarily complex. That may have happened with good intentions, but the result is nothing like it. In fact, we have a delfinicted nitrogen crisis that threatens to paralyse the economy, a policy that results in stagnating purchasing power for large groups of Dutch people, pensioners who are being cut off while pension funds are plunging out at more than EUR 1400 billion, almost twice our national income, an absurdly low calculation rate that no other comparable country uses and a complex tax system with all kinds of surcharges, which also result in a far too high marginal tax burden. Last week we heard in a briefing of the Council of State with among others VVD State Council Frank de Grave that the marginal tax burden in some cases even rises to 127%. 127%! Of every euro that people earn extra, they lose €1.27 in taxes and lost fees. Of course, that can never be the intention. How could all this have come this far? Millions of Dutch people are wondering. Lately, all kinds of politicians have been looking for parallels with the past to explain today's problems and find solutions to them. We have seen many things come by, even today: the Golden Age, the Middle Ages, the sixteenth century. But the period in which the Netherlands is now is more reminiscent of the middle of the nineteenth century, when the Golden Age was long and wide behind us, a lame mentality over the Netherlands descended and the dynamics and entrepreneurship of the Golden Age suddenly disappeared completely. This period was later referred to as the period in which in our country the so-called "jansaliegeist" ruled. Now I happened to have this old book from 1895 by Potgieter in the closet. The President has given me permission to show you, so here's the thing. Potgieter recorded the story from 1842 about the Jan family, Jannetje and their youngest child, for the connoisseurs. It is an allegory for the Netherlands in this lame period. On New Year's Eve, in 1841, the family sits together with the sons Jan Compagnie, Jan Credit, Jan Cash and Jan Kordaat. The care child is the youngest son, Jan Sage. He is a symbol of the lost entrepreneurial spirit and the lack of innovation. Potgieter describes Jan Sage as the pattern of all nightcaps, soup dresses and slippers, and as a sleazy slug with a weak posture. Finally Potgieter found the solution by putting Jan Salie away in a courtyard with old ladies, so that the enterprising family could get back together again. Mr. Chairman. At present, we are living in a similar period with a complacent, inward-looking political system that struggles with the problems it creates itself, a lack of momentum and a situation in which the store is primarily adapted and risks are avoided. A true jungle of planning agencies makes up the service and politics bounces after it. Let me mention a few: the Central Planning Bureau, the Planning Office for the Environment and the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau. You sometimes wonder if the Soviet Union in its heyday had as many planning agencies as the Netherlands now. Economic dynamics seem to have disappeared from the Netherlands for about ten years. But it has to go back. And that is also possible, to start with, by making sure that work and entrepreneurship really start to pay off. It only takes a little bit more than the Tax Plan that is before us today, in which a little bit is turned around for small improvements, a lot of ritual dances are staged over one percent here and one percent there and there is a lot of noise to two digits behind the decimal point. We now need a drastic simplification of the tax system and a substantial repair of the purchasing power slaughter, which has been brought about by the Rutte Cabinets in recent years. The collective burden pressure continues to rise and goes towards the 40%. This has not been shown since the days of the Den Uyl cabinet, which did nice things for left-wing people in the 1970s. The coalition, VVD and CDA first, let it all come over like a natural phenomenon. They stand by and look at it, see also the figures published by the CPB yesterday. Purchasing power growth remains about to the infinite at zero, even according to the Central Planning Bureau. Unfortunately, I fear that this prediction of the CPB on the current cabinet policy might come true for the change. At the same time, public debt is increasingly being reduced to levels that are actually too low in macroeconomic terms. I am not saying that, but those are the words of President Klaas Knot of De Nederlandsche Bank. While the Dutch state receives money for the first time in our history when it borrows money, the Rutte Cabinets are being beaten like crazy because they are fixed on a salmon standard from another era. They are unable to adapt policies adequately and in time to the new economic reality. Investment, as has often been recalled today, has been lagging behind in the Netherlands for a long time. Politics sees this as well, but a lack of analysis leads to the idea that the government will have to make all kinds of investments in the private sector in order to raise investment, such as with the miserable Invest-NL fund of Wouter Bos, which earlier today got carte blanche from this Chamber to spend 2.5 billion tax money at its sole discretion on future transitiascos. Mr. Chairman. Why are the investments lagging behind? That is the real question here. This is because the disposable income of millions of Dutch people lags behind. Entrepreneurs are not going to invest until they expect revenue growth. They don't see them until people get more money to spend. In particular, do not underestimate the psychological effect of expectations generated by politics. This is where the Rutte Cabinets often go to hell. The timing of the measures is wrong, the behavioral effects of consumers and businesses are misjudged, or worse, the situation is even unnecessarily worsening by clearly making error-free policy choices. Mr. Chairman. It has already been recalled this morning: this cabinet conducts an inconsistent jojo policy, on which investors cannot build a business case. For example, do not underestimate what the Coal ban on electricity production for image damage causes for the reliability of the Dutch government among foreign investors. Brand new coal plants, which have cost many billions, are just in use and are among the most efficient and environmentally friendly in the world, are de facto out of use after a few years by Minister Wiebes of the VVD. Capital destruction on a large scale, that's why you need to be with the VVD these days. Mr. Chairman. People are not crazy and do not always behave as is predicted in a spreadsheet at the Ministry of Finance. "Reflexivity" is called that with a difficult word, a concept from the financial world. Economic actors adapt their choices to public policy. There is a very complex interaction. People are not willless Excelhouses in a model that do exactly what the minister expects them to do. These behavioural effects and expectations need to be taken much more into account in fiscal policy. I am increasingly getting the feeling that the cabinet leaders do not recognise this sufficiently. That is why my question to the Minister of Finance is: what concrete steps will he take to put an end to this unpredictable yo-yo policy? Mr. Chairman. What must be done to reverse the current Jan Saliementality? First of all, the far too complex tax system must be simplified. Increases, once introduced by Minister Zalm in the Balkenende II cabinet, were intended for up to 1 million poignant cases. In the meantime, 6 million Dutch already use the surcharge system. It's totally out of control. The better thing is often the enemy of good is the saying that pays off here. It has already been recalled in this debate that the tax system is so complicated that most people can no longer see the forest through the trees and think: let it be. The Secretary of State recently said that he hoped that the surcharge system would cease to exist in ten years' time. Our group is pleased that the Secretary of State shares our diagnosis of the problems in this regard. The question to the Secretary of State is therefore when he thinks he can realistically achieve a simplification of the tax system. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. The current tax system undermines economic growth and labour productivity. It is therefore necessary to introduce a drastic simplification, with higher tax reductions, lower rates and a substantial cut-off in the surcharge system, so that it really will be paid to work and undertake again and the potential available in the Netherlands will be given plenty of room to develop. We can finance this by significantly cutting public administration expenditure. The administrative density in the Netherlands is very high. It could be a little less. Yesterday, CPB figures were published. The breakdown of the collective burden pressure on page 31 shows that as much as 10% of the collective burden pressure comes from the public administration post, over 80 billion a year. Only care and social security have a greater impact on collective burdens. The only sector that has grown enormously under the Rutte Cabinets is the government, at the expense of the private sector. This must be reversed in the years to come, so that more money will reach Dutch citizens. That is what GO will be committed to in the coming years, with concrete and constructive solutions for dynamism and greater capacity in the Netherlands. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u92	Thank you, Mr. Otten. Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u93	I felt quite impressed by the story of Jan Jans and the children.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u94	You can borrow the book from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u95	Thank you, I say through the chairman. I find that interesting. It is also nice to see that instead of Jan Sage we now also have a Jan Go. In any case, Mr Otten wants to move forward. My question is mainly about the surcharges and the tax system. It's so wrinkled that it's very strange for a lot of people. Does GO feel like a social flat tax, or a hard flat tax? Can you tell me about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u96	We believe that, in the short term in particular, there is a need for space at the bottom. We should therefore greatly increase the tax rebates so that the middle incomes receive a repair for the purchasing power they have lost in recent years. We are also thinking of a simplification. The plan provides for two tax brackets. We think that is a good idea, but of course the rates need to be reduced further. That can be financed............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. They're skyhigh in the Netherlands. We should start benchmarking well with other countries if we can't do that a little less.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u97	I was shocked by Mr Otten's comments on the institutional policy environment. I think that we should be extremely proud of this environment, with the CBS that collects the data and the Central Planning Bureau, the Planning Office for the Environment and the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau that analyse the data. Opinions come from various advisory bodies. I hear Mr Otten regularly refer to studies carried out by the Central Planning Office, including at the end of his speech. Should I conclude from this that he finds the analyses that come to us of added value?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u98	Some of these planning agencies have been set up by PvdA Kabinets, so I understand your position. I think we have quite a high density of planning agencies in the Netherlands. Maybe that comes from a kind of fondness of the Dutchman to plan everything very well. You yourself are an economist of name and fame. The conclusions of such offices should occasionally be taken into account with the necessary relativisation. Politics sometimes doesn't do enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u99	I am therefore pleased that Mr Otten, with this relativization, has made a complimentary reference to a number of analyses carried out by the planning agencies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u100	Yes, but in many countries there are no planning agencies at all. That's where the Treasury just makes the forecasts. In Germany, a few universities do that. In America, the Treasury does. In that sense, I think we can do very well without planning agencies. It's not blissful.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u101	Thank you, Mr. Otten. I call Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u102	Mr. Chairman. Exactly an hour ago, we received Koolmees' letter. I've read it by now. Just so we're clear, that wasn't a one-two between the minister and me. Firstly, I congratulate Mr Vendrik on his maiden speech. The media is increasingly talking about a cabinet with its back to society. Unfortunately, I have a tendency to confirm that image. Especially when it comes to the elderly, the cabinet is often invisible and felt worried by the cabinet quickly waved away or smiled away by the Prime Minister, recently here. I hope that this Minister will respond more seriously to our questions, and also that the President of this House will let us speak when we speak out for the voice of the many elderly who look forward to the coming years with great concern. We don't have tractors or construction shovels to plow the Malieveld, but that doesn't mean that our concerns are less relevant. The beautiful picture of Swiss life has long become obsolete for millions of elderly people in our country. And that, while their only request is about a reasonable share of their own savings. There's no nitrogen involved. You don't have to slow down for a kilometer. It just requires some common sense. That common sense is now all the more necessary. Yesterday, the Central Planning Bureau published the new medium-term estimates, with even greater disaster for pensioners after 2020. According to the planning agency, the four major pension funds, ABP, Pension Fund for Care and Welfare, PME and PMT, threaten pension reductions from 5% to 10%. Those amounts are on average 2.5% per year during the years 2021 to 2023, as the CPB assumes that the discounts are not spread over ten years, but very quickly, over a short period of three years. For the years 2022-2025, the Central Planning Office for Pensioners expects a decrease in purchasing power due to the discounts. The higher the pension, the bigger the discounts. 50PLUS wants the following health care measures. One: all discounts must be cancelled for the next two years. There is an exceptional economic situation within the meaning of Article 142 of the Pension Act. Two: the current calculation rate method must also be removed. The extremely low interest rate is the cause of the discounts. That interest rate is falling further because we have to calculate with Dijsselbloem. Jeroen, thank you! The only sustainable solution for a healthy pension system is to adjust the calculation rate by also taking into account some of the actual returns. Klaas Knot refuses. Also Klaas, thank you! What we also want is an increase in the elderly discount by €400 instead of the zero increase. Finally, apply the fictitious return rate of 0.13% to the entire savings amount of €71.000 instead of just two thirds of that amount. Mr. Chairman. Further on the pensions. It is interesting that the pension agreement reduces the limit for discounts to 90%. The cabinet is so cramped with the risk-free interest rate that it actually introduces a raise on the calculation rate of 0.7%, if in theory it is allowed to retain the risk-free interest rate: I give you your will if you agree with me. What a transparent trick! But, yeah, that's what the pension file's full of. We also find that 90% in the letter from Minister Koolmees an hour ago. Immediately after the pension agreement, the interest rate collapsed in June by 0.5% to -0.6%, threatening large discounts for 11 million people. Panic in the Party of Labour and GroenLinks, and thus in the coalition. After all, these two parties are threatening to withdraw their support for an agreement if the threatening reductions continue. With that, the cabinet has no majority in this Chamber. The game comes on the wagon: VNO and trade unions don't want discounts for two years to make the agreement possible. Klaas Knot calls discounts inevitable: "The rack is out." It's crazy, I call it. But Koolmite is standing against the wall with his back. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Hij heeft geen andere keus dan toegeven.]] Otherwise the agreement will explode and the Senate's support will be gone. Discounts are determined by the interest rate of the daily rate of 31 December....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2019 will even be a super yield year, with 20%. Without this letter there would be discounts towards the 10%. It's really unbelievable. We are the world's arithmetic interest rate and have the unique view that interest rates and returns will remain zero over the next 50 to 100 years, while the golden rule is: contribution times return is pension. Now that's even four times the return. 50PLUS has always referred to Article 142 of the Pension Act: there is an exceptional economic situation. The ECB has printed the interest rate by 1%. That's a 15% lower coverage. 50PLUS already proposed an extension of the two-year deadline in January, when my own initiative proposal for a temporary 2% bottom interest rate was voted off on the other side. That was the only way to avoid the already threatening discounts. For 50PLUS rule is forward-looking and not forward-sliding. But an extension of one or two years is merely a postponement of execution and buying time for the solution of the real problem that we believe is necessary: it is the calculation rate, stupid! The accounting rate cow must be taken into account, as Mrs van Geest also said yesterday. I would remind you that once applied discounts are definitive and unconditional. The rate of calculation remains the bomb under the agreement, hence today's letter and the steering committee which must reach a unanimous agreement between all parties in May. The agreement is that it is sent on purchasing power ambition with indexing. The trade union movement has indicated that if this is not feasible with the agreements on risk-free interest rates, we must return to the drawing table. The objectives are fixed and the means are available to them, according to the unions. I assume that the steering committee will not come out if the calculation rate is not adjusted, because at the current low interest rates the coverage rate can remain below 100%. Let me be clear: this 100% requirement remains valid in the new system despite all the fables. Then there will be nothing of the indexing ambition and the discount threat will remain. I will continue to fight for a 2% bottom interest rate to avoid these discounts, and not for one or two years. Soil interest is also very important for premiums. The pension agreement agreed that pension contributions should be calculated in the same way as liabilities, i.e. on the basis of zero risk-free interest rates and no longer on the basis of an expected return of 4%. As a result, pension contributions rise from 25% to, for example, 35% of wages or, if this is not possible, the build-up is halved from 1.87% to 1.1%. That is a disaster for the workers. We find that worrying. Hence also that a stable premium and/or a stable structure are mentioned in the letter. Mr. Chairman. Either the interest rate falls or the pension agreement. There are no more flavors. I predict Rutte will choose eggs for his money next year before the election and drop the calculation rate like a brick, just like he dropped the dividend tax proposal and last week the sacred VVD cow of 130 km/h. From that perspective, the letter of 60 prominent people and a number of CDA congress resolutions are important. The letter of the 60 people from science and industry advocates a committee of experts looking at a combination of risk-free interest rates and actual return. Apparently, the support for adaptation in science and business is much greater than the cabinet and Rutte think. We now have the support of the CDA resolutions. Mr. Chairman. In the meantime, we have received the letter from Minister Koolmees, as I said. There will be a one-year delay, but the uncertainty continues for 10 million people. That gives me the opportunity, exceptionally, to table a motion at the end of my speech on the postponement of the two-year reductions. Then the poor purchasing power for the elderly. Beautiful purchasing power plates disappear like snow for the sun. The cabinet doesn't call it a prophecy right now. It's an estimate. Whatever the name, for the elderly, the actual increase in purchasing power has been at least 1% lower than the estimated for many years now. I'm holding my heart again before 2020. It is scandalous that older people do not receive an increase in the elderly discount, while workers receive an additional employment discount of €420. We are asking for the same increase in the elderly discount. Is the Minister prepared to do so? For pensioners, a 2.5% decrease in purchasing power is expected every year after 2020, according to the Planning Bureau. And that while employees will receive €1,000 extra labour discount over the next three years. That's not Rutte's promise. That's what the bill says. Can the Minister explain why this extra €1,000 is responsible for employees? This costs more than 2 billion extra, while the elderly do not have a millimeter available. And why is it that the elderly are not getting any increase in the elderly discount, even in the next three years?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u103	When I listen to Mr Van Rooijen like that, I have a question. He has twelve minutes of speaking time, which he uses for a rather angry story about the wounding of the elderly, the pension discount, the interest rate, a subject that is very close to his heart, and the tax and old age rebates. That's what the Tax Plan debate is about. Is it not a pity that Mr Van Rooijen, with his experience, former Secretary of State, and knowledge of finance, confines himself solely to this subject, when it comes to budgetary policy as a whole? Isn't that a waste of time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u104	I don't think that's a waste of time. If Minister Koolmees writes a nine-page letter today, an hour before I speak on that subject, it shows that I am present. That may surprise Mr Backer, but not me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u105	That does not surprise me, but it does surprise me that we are discussing a letter that we have not yet been able to read, probably Mr Van Rooijen, but that was not my question. My question was about the subject of today's debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u106	I will go into all the tax proposals in detail in the Tax Plan. Because of the time limit, it is also a matter of priorities to focus on matters that are of interest to my party and to 10 million workers and no longer employed. Because of time, I have the honour to present a motion now. The President shall: Members Van Rooijen, Gerbrandy, Otten, Van Apeldoorn, Koffeman, Baay-Timmerman and Van Strien propose the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas older people are constantly being frightened by their pensions;]] [[Whereas these are always accounting rules and not the actual return on investments;]] [[Considering that it is almost the end of the year and that older people are now entitled to security, all the more so because the tax policies of the government already have a considerable distance to the working citizen;]] [[calls on the government now to say that pensions will not be reduced in the next two years,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-Q]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u107	Mr. Chairman. I support the submission, but not the content, I suspect, if I read the motion properly. Mr Van Rooijen is beginning to establish that he has done one-two with the Minister. So he can be incredibly satisfied with the content of the letter, because the discounts are being postponed. And then the same Mr Van Rooijen is going to table a motion on something from next year that hasn't happened yet. He could've had a one-two on that. Couldn't he have waited for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u108	I had indicated that there is no one-two, although it might be possible. After all, even groups of one, two or three seats may have a decisive vote in this First Chamber, but it was not. I have paid a great deal of attention to pensions, as I have done in the General Political Reviews. I indicated at the beginning: the Prime Minister was not willing to answer, either he walked past it, or waved it away. That was the reason for me to speak today in this Chamber on this subject, apart from the topicality of the matter. This affects many, seven to eight million workers, but also older people. They haven't had an index in ten years and they're gonna have to serve their time. But it is also a disaster for the workers, because either the pension contributions should be increased by 10% or the build-up should be halved. We think that is a very worrying and serious matter. For this reason, I would like to say once again to Mr D66, because for D66 this seems to be an article of faith.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u109	I call Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u110	Mr. Chairman. Congratulations, of course, to Mr Vendrik for his maiden speech. I look forward to good debates with him and the other colleagues. I'm going back in time, 400 years ago, to the Dordts Synod. There was that special decision, because "By burden of" (or by order of) "the Supreme Lords-General of the United Netherlands" the Bible, the so-called State Translation, was translated. As of next week, there will be an exhibition on the Statenvertaling in the Statenpassage. But on that Dordtse Synode there were also battles between remonstrants and counterremonstrants. Some may know that the remonstrants were pointed at the door of the Great Church in Dordrecht, after which the Remonstrant Brotherhood arose. The remembrance of this last fact was expressed in a glossy called Get out!. In the glossy mentioned, the Minister of Finance is speaking, and I quote Mr Wopke Hoekstra: "Room members of Christian Union and SGP pointed to the importance of a Joseph economy. That appeals to me: in good times like this, you have to have something left for bad times. My mission as Minister of Finance is to pass society on to the next generation in a responsible way." Beautiful words, and I keep them in mind on the various subjects, of which I have already announced a few during the General Political Reviews. First something about the purchasing power of a earner. Some people think that a earner is only a member of the SGP. I wish. Then my party would suddenly end up on a dozen seats in this Chamber. And the 13 other parties would have to turn in 10%, but that's what they're willing to do. Research has shown that earners are around proportional in all parties. For some spokesmen, what I'm telling you now is old-fashioned, but there are quite a few new spokesmen. For them, very briefly, it is about the unfair tax burden imposed on a earner. The example of something above Jan Modaal is clear: if two earners both earn €20,000 next year, they will pay less than €1,500 tax on a combined income of €40,000. If a earner earns the same €40,000, he or she pays over €9,300 tax, so more than six times as much. The SGP considers that unfair. And most of this room thinks that's unfair. I refer to previous motions from my hand on this point, which were accepted at the time. This will undoubtedly be addressed in the discussion of the Tax Plan. But now that the Minister of Finance is here, I'm gonna ask you the following questions. Does the Minister of Finance think this gap is fair? Is he willing to take steps next year to narrow the gap? I would add one more question, but it may also be of interest to the Secretary of State. Otherwise, I don't have enough questions for him. Isn't it time for the Joseph tax alongside the Joseph economy? If he wants to know where to find that tax, I refer to Genesis 47:24. In line with this, I have a question about marginal pressure. The facts are clear: a hugely high marginal pressure, the highest among the single earner. I know the cabinet has already done something about it, but that is far from enough. What steps will the cabinet take to reduce marginal pressure? Mr. Chairman. Another issue I would like to raise seems absolutely out of order here. I want to talk about the climate law. Not content, but from a financial point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u111	Mr. Van Strien first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a question to ask Mr Schalk about his desire to bring one- and two-earners into line, just for my understanding. What exactly does Mr Schalk want, a tax per family or cohabitation or something like that or a flat tax, is everyone just exactly the same percentage over the whole income? That's what you can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u113	Mr Van Strien's question lays down exactly how it is to be resolved. That is with either the family income or the flat tax, because it will amount to the same thing. Everyone will then simply be taxed according to their own income.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u114	I asked Mr Schalk whether he had a preference for one or the other. That doesn't matter, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u115	Not if the flat fee is actually implemented without the whole supplementing situation that has been discussed here today in all possible ways. The problem is perhaps not so much those taxes, but all those surcharges and discounts, such as the general tax rebate, which are then applied or not applied and so on. If you are going to a flat tax, I myself would be aiming for a social flat tax, you should actually have that accompanied by the abolition of all kinds of surcharges. An example has just been mentioned here in this debate. That was about the childcare allowance. Just stop doing that, because it turns out to be causing huge problems. Just go to a very simple system, which we had a few years ago and still have: the child benefit. Just put those child care allowances all in the child benefit. This means that every parent gets the same amount of money for his children and can decide for himself whether to use it to take care of the education of the children, to employ grandparents or to hire childcare. Then it's fairly divided and then everyone's a lot happier.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u116	Mr. Van Strien, third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u117	Okay. So I understand that the SGP is aiming for a flat tax.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u118	It's a good thing we're gonna repeat that. A flat fee without surcharges could be possible, and if that is not feasible, I would say: let's go to family income. There are a lot of surcharges and things in this country that we link to family income. Think about rent payments and stuff like that. It looks at how the whole family makes money, even children over 18 are included. In the ordinary tax, the income tax, the single earner is suddenly heavily taxed: six times as much as the two earner.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u119	Then Mrs. Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u120	I heard Mr Schalk talk about the Joseph economy and the Joseph tax. Then I cannot but draw attention to the Joseph-and-Maria economy. I would very much like to hear from Mr Schalk what recommendations he has on the position of Maria... I think it's so funny myself. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u121	We have just heard today that the position of women in the labour market is very bad. That's a real problem. How does Mr Schalk intend to strengthen Maria's position on the labour market?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u122	I don't think it's easy to record this. Then Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u123	I tried to explain, ma'am... I'd almost say "Mrs. Chairman," but it's gonna go all wrong. Well... I saw that this morning in the Volkskrant and I thought: that is exactly what the SGP is about, that we treat everyone in the same way. Then what happens now. Maybe you don't know, but last year, or two years ago, I gave the Prime Minister a big pill in which all were letters from a earner. A lot of people think that a earner is always men and that the lady sits at home, but that is not the case at all. That happens, sure, but that happens equally in all parties. What kind of people are they? Sometimes they're military personnel deployed, women deployed as military personnel. Then it's very nice if that man is able to take care of the kids, or vice versa, men being sent out. In that bundle there were touching letters from people who were confronted with a chronically ill partner. In short, I find it very funny that my story made you so happy. Then when it comes to a Joseph tax or a Maria tax, I don't care what we're going to call it. I think it's a pretty good term, actually. Let's get a Joseph and Maria tax. Only, of course, it's another Joseph you're referring to. That's the New Testament Joseph. I was actually talking about the Joseph economy from the Old Testament.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u124	Mrs. Sent, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u125	I knew I would go on slippery ice if I were to draw parallels with Joseph and Mary in front of Mr Schalk, but I would still like to ask him to give me an answer. What kind of ideas does he have about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u126	I think there are plenty of ideas about that in this country, so I would really be surprised if mine was needed. What stands out in the Volkskrant article maybe Mrs Sent hasn't gotten there yet is that a few pages are also given a lot of reasons for how that is exactly what happened. Well, in most cases that has absolutely nothing to do with the fact that they would be SGP women to name but one. There are just a lot of fairly neutral reasons that make that happen and which apparently puts the position of women at a disadvantage. If Mrs Sent means to ask me what I think of the merits of men and women in the same kinds of professions, my answer is that you should just go along with them. That's just crystal clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u127	Resume your argument, Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u128	Do you want me to do that? Is Mrs. Sent laughed at?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u129	Please reconsider your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u130	I was talking about a completely different subject, and that is the Climate Act. I am not going to go into that in substance, but, of course, from a financial point of view. My question is actually quite simple: what is the appreciation of the Minister of Finance for the fact that a climate law has been passed in both chambers for which there is no financial coverage? Isn't that a method that this minister normally opposes? And if that were to be the case now, why not do so on an issue such as defence and NATO standards, which we are far from meeting? The NATO standard is 2% of gross domestic product. In hard figures, this is EUR 16.7 billion. In reality, Defense stands for 10.6 billion in the Millions Note. So there's still a huge hole there. Mr. Chairman. This is all the more pressing now that the salmon standard is also under pressure. Most people don't know who put this cabinet in the saddle anymore. Just a reminder: first Mrs. Schippers went to work, then she handed over the stick to Mr. Tjeenk Willink and finally Mr. Zalm was taken off the stables. And yes, he could still do it. In a few weeks he put together a cabinet of four parties. Very fast, but he had shown samples before. One of his greatest merits was that he introduced the salmon standard. In short, the salmon standard requires a trendary fiscal policy. This means that a fixed real expenditure framework has been established, with expenditure not exceeding a pre-arranged ceiling. Income dropouts should not be used for additional expenses, and revenue dropouts are not automatically offset by additional cuts. That is a system that we have benefited greatly from in the past. What do we want to do now? The cabinet, which owes its existence to Mr Zalm, is throwing the same Mr Zalm overboard, at least its standard. Smells like thanks? The cabinet will reduce the burden on households by an additional 2.5 billion for next year. As a result, the overall reduction in the burden on households will amount to EUR 4.4 billion next year. That is, of course, fine in itself. And I understand the joy of the cabinet, after all the hard years of crisis and economic recovery. But the budget surplus also falls from 1.2% of GDP to 0.3% due to this gift to citizens. And for the first time since 1994, the beginning of the salmon standard, the cabinet deliberately abandons its own budgetary rules. Both expenditure and revenue exceed the ceilings and frameworks set, partly to finance the pension and climate agreement, but also to co-finance the billions gift to citizens. And perhaps there will be a loan later on to set up an investment fund. I also mentioned this during the General Political Reviews. The Prime Minister tried to get out of this with a brand new term for me, namely the framework corrections. I liked it, but not convincing. That is why we have the following questions on the reduction of charges. Is it true that this exceeds the established frameworks and standards? Should I note that the salmon standard has been released? Mr. Chairman. In addition to the reduction of charges, there is also considerable money put into other cases. I am thinking of the climate, of the adjustment of nitrogen content, of extra money for education, and today the social lawyer has been mentioned. Will the Minister give us an overview of all the extra expenses since the presentation of the Millions Note on the third Tuesday of September? And how are these additional expenses covered? Or are these all framework corrections? It is also too easy for me to say nothing to the government about expenditure. I would also like to make a suggestion to raise funds. Finance comes in through taxes, social contributions and, for example, fines. But there's more to it than that. The revenue must be used to pay for all kinds of provisions that citizens can make use of. But there is also the use of resources that can be matched by a return. I'm thinking of the exorbitant costs for events, where police are being deployed massively. Known example are all kinds of risk football games. Another simple example was given to us by Minister Grapperhaus. He recently announced at the debate on the state weed that some 1,100 dance parties are being held every year. That costs a lot of police work, partly because a lot of pills are being taken, with all the consequences of that. The SGP proposes to recover the costs of additional police deployment from such organisations, as soon as it is clear that such a meeting will use prohibited means or if action is taken against the law. More generally: the user pays if the law is broken. Is the government prepared to consider, in all kinds of festivities for which consumers pay money and where exorbitant police efforts are requested, whether the costs of such events can be recovered from the organisation of such events? Mr. Chairman. In conclusion. The Minister has the ambition to pass on the responsibility of society to the younger generations. He was talking about the Joseph economy. I'm hoping for a Joseph tax. And I wonder if the Minister and the Secretary of State would like to give an answer in the spirit of Joseph. I look forward to that!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u131	I listened with interest to Mr Schalk's speech. I've heard Joseph come by twice, but Noah didn't come by once, while it was about climate policy, the after-the-slide policy. You always ask the question: who is going to pay for this climate policy? Does the SGP also recognise the fact that failure to implement climate policy is going to cost us far more than climate policy? I'd like to have a reflection from you on the Noachtaks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u132	That is a wonderful reason to think for next year whether I will start with Noah next year instead of Joseph. You know that Noah built an ark for preservation. Nothing wrong with that, fine. By the way, he used wood and pitch for that, but he saved a lot of animals. The Party for Animals, I believe, wants to get rid of them all, at least half.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u133	It very much appealed to me that Noah was a huge animal protector, more than I encounter at the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u134	You can't say that. How do you know that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u135	Because there are a lot of SGPs involved in intensive livestock farming...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u136	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u137	...and really make hundreds of millions of animals the victim of that. That's not Noah's idea. Neither is the post-on-the-sun flood policy, because he was the only one who didn't say "after us the flood," but thought: I'm going to build a boat. In that sense, I think there is every reason for the SGP to take an example of that Bible story and think: let's not let that happen again and let's not see the rainbow as the only guarantee that it won't happen again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u138	The suggestion that SGPs would not be good for their animals or deal badly with them, I cast far away. I have had a discussion with Mr Koffeman earlier about the millions of animals killed to eat. There is absolutely no prohibition in the Bible to eat animals. I am sure Mr Koffeman knows this better than I do, because he has certainly looked into it. We once had a discussion about the difference between a chicken and a cow, to name but a few. I told them that I was recently with a farmer who had about 180 cows. It was very special. He walked through the stable and he knew about every cow his name, what sex it was, and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u139	Mr. Chairman. I'll just...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u140	We have now reached the stable via Joseph and Mary. Sinterklaas is yet to arrive. I would ask you to return to the General Financial Reviews and conclude this debate on the interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u141	I'll get to that. I just want to make the word "sex" clear. I meant, of course, the pedigree. He knew the whole family tree. For a chicken, that's a lot more complicated, I'll admit. A farmer with 30,000 chickens doesn't know them all by name.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u142	In conclusion, Mr President. That's exactly the problem. I understand where the word "sex" came from. That's probably because they're being slaughtered.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u143	No, I've explained it has to do with the family tree.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u144	Yeah, you can. The Proverb poet says that the righteous knows the fate of his animal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u145	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u146	That's very difficult when you have 200,000 chickens in a barn. That's what you said. You can conclude that it is difficult to be just and have a mega-chicken farm.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u147	Yeah, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u148	In conclusion, Mr. Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u149	In conclusion. Still, I think I've tried to make it clear that such a farmer in his stable knows the life of his animals. If a chicken farmer with 10,000, 20,000 or 50,000 chickens didn't know the life of his chickens, they'd be dead within a day. Just because he knows the life of his chickens, it thrives and thrives those chickens. Where there are abuses, I immediately agree with Mr Koffeman that we must tackle them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u150	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. Then I give the floor to Mr Gebrandy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u151	Thank you, Mr President. Don't expect a college economy from me. No Joseph economy or Noah. You have to be quite Bible-proof to be in today. That's me, so so far I've got it. I have five points to consider, to reflect from this Chamber. As the last speaker, subjects may have already been mentioned, but my fifth subject has not been mentioned. The issue of municipal finances has been mentioned by Mrs Sent and Mr Backer. There are major problems in the municipalities in terms of budget. Municipalities can't stand in the red, you know. Municipalities have to solve a lot of things. A lot has been said about it. They're gonna have to cut back. And who's the most affected? The people, just the people in the street, our neighbors, ourselves. You know the problems with the pools and so on. I would like to hear a reflection from our Minister on how he feels about kick-off and whether it can be done better. Second. Everyone benefits from prosperity. Everyone benefits from prosperity. I'd like to say a few things about that. Why aren't we talking about well-being in this Chamber anymore? I can ask; that's the advantage when you speak last. Prosperity is important, but well-being may be even more important. One often doesn't go without the other. The middle income benefits 2.5%. Why not the minima? Why not those minimum wagers who just work hard? That's more like it here today. I listened for a moment to the deliberations in the House of Representatives. Our Secretary of State Snel, here in our midst, said: yes, but those workers, those workers. Yes, Mr. Quick, those workers. But I got a bit of a Japanese feeling. Because the Japanese live to work, but we work to live. That is why I believe that in a civilised country where things are going well, the people who do their best at the base can also benefit. That comes back to my point five. The investment fund. Lend your wealth, spare your arm. That is also what the cabinet has achieved. I'm not wearing that nuance right now. I told you you don't get a college economy from me, but you read things and you hear from Teulings, already mentioned here, that it's good that investments are made if you can. That salmon standard, I get that; you don't have to do everything and exclude the other. But don't sit on those pennies too much, because that's not good for us. That is why I am in favour of that investment fund, if that money is well spent and managed. I refer to the transitions we face, the problems in the agricultural sector. We have just been asked: is the budget of ours still good, given the problems that are coming to us at the moment? We also have an investment fund that allows us to realize things that we might not have foreseen. The start-ups. We are a knowledge-based economy. If that is going to disappear in the Netherlands, then we are lagging behind. And that's why: education, science, innovation, and it starts with primary education, primary education. That's gotta be attention. Those people need to stay motivated. And that keeps our economy in the lead in the future. Care. The hardware of care will probably also be able to be paid from components of this investment fund. There's not enough money to make nursing homes, nursing homes. I know the government can't do that alone, but maybe there are opportunities here. The concern is a great concern of all of us. And people, we're not gonna say "Sorry We Missed You" in a couple of years. I say that for the good hearer. The infrastructure. The infrastructure needs to be maintained and the digital infrastructure I wanted to see as a utility. The digital infrastructure. The Netherlands is lagging behind, particularly in rural areas, due to the fibre infrastructure. Perhaps that can also be stimulated. Artworks, roads viaducts, after a certain period of time, are no longer 100% in order, and that is why money must be made available for this too. The Lelyline was mentioned here earlier by me. The Minister said we're going to put it on the MIRT. Yes, but go and do so, because it is in the interest of the Netherlands that there should be a connection from the Randstad to the north in this case, but also to Northern Germany and the Scandinavian countries. That's good for our economy. The same applies, I would like to mention him here, to the intercity Amsterdam-Aachen. Those are the little things my constituents are talking to me about. Heerlen-Aachen is a bum and there must be an intercity, so that the Randstad is connected to Germany. Fourth point. Phosphate, PAS, pfas; what a misery. But we're not there yet. Medicine residue, insecticides. If you take a piece of soil from an agricultural farm, there's 134 substances in that soil that don't really belong there. And if you go organic farming, is it over? No, then there are over 100 substances that don't belong there. Dear people, we know and we knew, and here's a big problem. This is a priority for the Empire and I think we all support it. This costs a lot of money, and luckily there's money. And the stakeholders, the farmers, the growers and everyone involved, but also the industry and the local authorities, the municipalities, must have money for this. And the polluter has to pay for it. But let's look forward. I hear so many times that they say, "that climate crap." I hear that here too. Dear people, what doesn't all this cost? And what's it gonna cost? That is what has been said here today. Prevention! I call on this government and the people with the money to look at circularity, at sustainability, at cycle, so that we do not make the costs towards the future much, much higher. Last point. I quote Victor Hugo. "Mightier than all armies in the world is an idea for which the time is ripe." More powerful is an idea for which the time is ripe. I told you, in a prosperous, civilized country, everyone has to participate. That is not the case now. Many people fall between shore and ship. We see that there are major problems with the Tax Office. 30,000 people, Mr. Quick, 30,000 people are doing a terrible job. I don't hear enough of that around here. All I hear here is that IRS this, that IRS that. They work very hard and you encourage them, and there are reasons for that. Bulgarian situation. But these people are doing their jobs. Just... are we all doing this right? That's what I want to talk to you about. Every contribution we made today involved increases, reductions, levies. There are 50 arrangements in this country to help people through time. Earlier it was said here, I thought by Otten, that 6 million people have to do with surcharges or whatever. This is gonna get stuck. This is the pumping around of money. We must ensure that every human being has security of existence. I am now going to confront you with something I have not heard today, namely the basic income for everyone. Did we manage to do anything about that? No, ladies and gentlemen. I have one minute and fifteen seconds left, I see. I need to finish this. 150,000 people depend on the food bank. 40,000 people are homeless. Yeah, I'm sorry to hear that. 200,000 people are in debt relief. 850,000 people have too few to finance the basics. And 1,200 000 households can't really make ends meet. Is there a solution? Everyone has said, "Don't do that." With experiments with a basic income for everyone, amazing results have been achieved. The Nibud says: everyone goes ahead with it up to and including two modes. Up there, people have to turn something in. I don't mind. It's a lot of money, Mr. Hoekstra, and that's why I call it here. It's 171 billion. It would cost. But it's worth 154 billion. Then we can forget about all the supplements, the 50 schemes. I'd like a very broad investigation. Is this left-wing talk or whatever? No, at Nixon, in 1969, it was almost imported into America, and Milton Friedman, not a left-wing rascal, has made himself strong for this. I'd like to hear your response to a basic income, and I have a present for you. This is a Sinterklaas gift. I'm not Santa Claus, and certainly not White Piet, but I'm giving you this book and I'm asking you for one promise: that you want to read it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u152	Thank you, Mr. Gerbrandy. Would you like to offer that to the rulers after the suspension? Then I come to the conclusion of this deadline. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u153	The next item is the debate on the progress of the General Financial Reviews. I give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u154	Thank you, Mr President. Let me begin by saying that for both of us it is an honor and a pleasure to be here with you today. For myself this is always a bit "back to memory lane." Through you, I would like to thank Members for the enormous richness, breadth and depth of subjects that have passed through in three quarters of the day. I would like to join everyone who has warmly congratulated Mr Vendrik on his maiden speech. I was, of course, particularly gilded that he also quoted my predecessor, De Master, whom I quoted extensively at Princess Day, and who, incidentally, combined the role of Minister of Finance with the Prime Minister. Mr. Chairman. I want to divide my speech into five blocks. First of all, of course, public finances and the economy. Secondly, the revenue side of the budget. Thirdly, expenditure. Fourthly, the investment fund, which I am pleased to note. And five: a richly stacked block of other questions. Then, of course, the Secretary of State will discuss taxation, the Tax Administration and also a few specific issues that belong to his portfolio, such as, for example, the Municipal Fund and the Province Fund. Mr. Chairman. I will start with public finances and the economy. With your permission, I'm going to put a few contemplative words to it as a kick-off. In this debate, it was clear that we are all trying, from our own political point of view, to find the best possible balance between three points of a triangle. First of all, we consider strong investment in society to be extremely important together. Secondly, of course, we want to minimise the burden on our citizens and our businesses. And third, we want to minimize the bill that we're moving to the next generation. There's an almost natural tension built into that triangle. What's the Cabinet trying to do? First of all, the government makes very substantial investments in society: in education, in public health, in climate, in defence, in security and in all those areas that have sometimes provoked the Prime Minister to say that this cabinet has invested the most since the Den Uyl cabinet. Secondly, the cabinet is trying to relieve the burden. That is what it does with a package that, if you add the coalition agreement to this summer's adjustments, is about 8 billion compared to the basic path. This figure falls first and foremost to citizens. The final piece is, of course, public finances, especially debt. We started there around 60%, and it seems that it will fall below 50% in the coming year. This means that there are many tens of billions of dollars away from that debt, which is extremely important for a very open economy like the Dutch economy, because that provides the necessary buffer in relation to the future. We may need that very much again. Mr. Chairman. In this connection, Mr Vendrik asked for the Navy's note. I can imagine that the publicity has aroused additional interest before that Navy note. It will send the cabinet to the Chamber by 1 December at the latest. Mr Backer asked if the cabinet was doing the extra expenditure properly and on time. The answer is yes. For that we are doing our stinking best, I also say on behalf of colleagues in the cabinet. It is true that Mr Backer is right to point out that the cabinet has started with such ambitious investment plans at this time of year that, especially last year, but also this year, there are simply plans for which more time is needed to put them into practice, partly because of labour shortages. In the field of defence and infrastructure in particular, last year we saw that the ambitious goal of starting directly in 2018 as mentioned in the coalition agreement was achieved for a very large part, but not to the full. There were questions about the debt and the interest charges. I am going to say a lot more about the fund in a moment and how we will be helped with the low interest rates there. But it might be good to articulate again how the world has changed, if you look not so much at the sovereign debt itself as at the interest charges as a percentage of the rich budget. When my distant minister Ruding stood here, he still had the classic dilemma of the Minister of Finance. If you were to borrow extra to reduce the burden or invest more, you would immediately see that in the interest charges on the following year's budget. In a budget which was about two thirds of the size of the current budget in the 1980s, he spent 10 to 15 billion in interest payments, converted into current amounts. These interest charges will be less than 5 billion on a budget of around 300 billion next year. That's an important indicator. It is not the only indicator, but an important indicator of how the world has changed and why it justifies a different perspective on at least parts of budgetary policy. A great deal has also been said about the trend in fiscal policy. Almost all the spokesmen have paid attention to it. I would like to thank Members very much for the attention they have paid to it. If half the politicians in The Hague were to pay half the attention that the financial spokesmen have just paid to it, my life would look a lot simpler. That is not an end in itself, I know, but it would help to maintain the trendary fiscal policy, which is very dear to many of the spokesmen here, but also to the cabinet and, of course, to myself. I have a number of specific comments to make on the questions that have been put. The Council of State and the Central Planning Bureau rightly point out that Dutch Cabinets very often, meant or unintentionally, pursue a procyclical fiscal policy. This means that we spend extra money and reduce the burden in economically good times. The cabinet deliberately opted for this at the outset, because in society, see today's debate, but also politically, there was a very broad desire to invest extra in education, public health, climate, defence and police. I think this is really a explanatory choice. But of course it is a choice that is automatically at odds with the third part of my triangle, namely long-term public finances. Again, with a debt below 50%, we have made a very big blow in this cabinet period. Senators Schalk, Wever, Ester, Sent, Van Kesteren, Van Apeldoorn, Van Strien and Backer have given their views on budgetary rules and trendary fiscal policies. I will not try to paraphrase Mr Schalk, but he had a very good summary of what the trend budgetary policy is about. I've been reading it. It was exactly the way I imagined it. I would like to highlight a few things, and I would also like to add a few things. He was right to say that the trend in fiscal policy has always focused on the expenditure side. That's how Zalm started once. The revenue side has then been added. A so-called windfall formula was then introduced. Only in recent years have we been treating this revenue side more and more, but not fully, as the spending side of the rich budget. He was absolutely right about it, but I'd like to make that addition. The second thing I would like to underline in Mr Schalk's summary is that you are trying to do this, because you want to avoid the situation of Zalm's budgetary system. This is a situation in which a cabinet had to make adjustments on a monthly or monthly basis on the expenditure side of the budget, because more or less money came in. That caused a huge amount of unrest. I think it is very important that we have systematically removed that from the system. I would like to add one more. Mr Schalk did not mention that there are maximum amounts on the expenditure side of the budget and that the frameworks are maximum frameworks. Unlike sometimes thought, the amount earmarked in a budget for a particular ministry is the maximum amount proposed by the cabinet to spend. It is not a disgrace, I sometimes say to my colleagues in the cabinet, if they do not do it fully, even though it may lead to disappointment among politicians of all kinds. I put so many words to budgetary policy because it is very dear to me, but also because I would like to nuance the image that the cabinet would break with that. That's out of the question. If the revenue side was looked at, it has happened more often that Cabinets decided to make adjustments. I think it's okay to name that. I am thinking only of the debate I have had here as a senator. At some point, with the agreement of the entire Chamber, I believe that we have adopted a structural reduction of 5 billion. That was, of course, an adjustment. By the way, the majority of the House, I think even the whole Chamber, thought that was a sensible choice. So it's not without precedent. The last thing I want to say to Mr Schalk is this. He asked if I could give an overview of the extra expenses. I'd like to promise him that. He will see that in this cabinet period, on the one hand, we spend significantly more than the so-called basic path, but on the other hand, we do not go beyond the maximum expenditure frameworks, if you discount the extra expenditure with the under-utilisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u155	The Minister gives a very clear explanation of the functioning of fiscal policy at national level. This has all kinds of consequences at municipal level. They are very dramatic when municipalities have to adjust their budgets every three months, because the Empire does not spend what it has promised. Will the Minister be able to comment on these undesirable side-effects of government policy?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u156	Let me do that right now. I think it is quite right that Mrs Sent should draw attention to this. It is also an explicit part of the dialogue that the cabinet conducts with municipalities. I'd like to make a few nuances. I hope she recognizes it. It started with the fact that the cabinet made substantial extra money available to municipalities and provinces at the formation. Moreover, because of the stairs on-stage, municipalities and provinces automatically benefit from the substantial expansion of the budget. That's two. Three is that, in this cabinet period, the Spring Note has provided many hundreds of millions more to municipalities for the benefit of youth care. So that's also new money for provinces and municipalities. That last piece might be good to memorize, too. Last year, I was asked by the House of Representatives, like my colleague from BZK and my colleague from VWS, whether we should not think about kicking down those stairs if you are dealing with under-utilisation yourself. It's a legitimate question. The cabinet has given the question of whether this could be a solution, including to the VNG. The VNG has said: we welcome the money for youth care, we also want to talk structuralally with the cabinet about what we think we need. But adjusting the stairs down the stairs in the sense that we are now being compensated for what is getting less and that this is being taken into account for the long term, the VNG didn't really think it was necessary. Then you stand there as a cabinet with your good intentions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u157	Two things. Mr Wever pointed out that the cost cannot be paid in youth care. So I wonder how that relates to the story that the Minister has just kept. The second is: an adaptation of the staircase-on-strap-afsystematiek is being considered following a motion in the Lower House. But in what time will this adjustment be possible? And to what extent is it possible to make adjustments in the meantime, anticipating the system change in which the looming errors are removed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u158	Mrs Sent is quite right, because I believe that this subject has the strong attention of a large majority in the House of Representatives and also of the most involved colleagues in the cabinet. I should like to say a few words about the time limit for this. I would just like to remind you of the following: yes, we are going to look, but every type of system has inherent disadvantages. In the formation, of course, municipalities and provinces were asked what one thought of the systemic, and then the answer was gross modo anyway: it works pretty well. At the time, people were quite satisfied with that.You can hardly imagine that now with the extra money that came in. At least that was my perception, but I wasn't sitting at the formation table, so that's from the tradition. Even now, I do not hear from provinces and municipalities in the conversations I myself have: please stop kicking-off. So I'd like the ball there to do the job. I will give Mrs Sent, with her approval, an answer to the question as to what we think is an ambitious and realistic period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u159	Mrs. Sent, last one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u160	I don't quite understand the image of the municipality. I read somewhere that the G40 has insisted on adjusting that step-on-step system.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u161	I'm kind of on the side of the Secretary of State. There are certainly aldermen, and certainly also municipalities, who say: I want the system adapted. There are also those who have said that the majority of modo works well. There are many who have asked for extra money for youth care. That's what the Cabinet did. Then there are some who say it should have been more. I have some pattern recognition to know that it's not unique to youth care that parties in the field say: it should have been more. And I'm gonna say it carefully. But I think the cabinet is really working on each of the pieces of that question. So for youth care, we have made hundreds of million available for this year, for next year, for the following year, and I even believe for 2022. We're also looking at that system. I think that's really fair to the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u162	I thank the Minister for his explanation. I thought that was quite adequate, because he indicated: it started with the salmon standard once with the spending side, later on the income side and then the windfall formula and the like. Tonight we are talking about the spending side. Not only did the SGP group express its concerns about releasing the salmon standard, but so did the Council of State. In this Chamber, I do not believe I have heard 13 other parties say: oh, how nice that you have stayed within the salmon standard. So everyone thinks we're gonna shoot over it, except the minister right now. The question is whether that is really true. After all, we are given a reduction in the burden of a number of billions for citizens. That is wonderful, but in the meantime there are a lot of things: 460 million for education, and I think there are still a few small things going around nitrogen and such. In other words, does the Minister really say here that we are staying within the salmon standard? Or should I conclude that he says the same thing as the Prime Minister: no, we do framework corrections? But let's be honest about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u163	That is just what the Millions Note says: framework corrections have also been made. But let me try to cut the question into a few pieces, because I think that helps. No, I would like to stress once again: this salmon standard is extremely important for this cabinet. That standard has also been very important for previous Cabinets. But I would really like to take away the image that some people seem to have, if this cabinet had taken a completely different path from previous Cabinets. It is not for nothing that I make the comparison with, I believe, the Financial Reviews of the end of 2013, with the 2014 budget, where there was 5 billion additional burden relief in the barrel. That wasn't in the coalition agreement. Moreover, this cabinet has already adjusted the budget once, because of the crisis, in a way which was sensible, but which, if you look very closely at budgetary policy, was at odds with the system. So that's really important to mark. The next part of the answer is as follows. Mr Schalk knows that I hold the Council of State very high. It's the government's main advisor. It is perfectly logical that people there should be critical. However, I should like to say a few words about the points made in the opinion, and I would like to say a few words about the revenue side of the budget and the Council of State itself, in this calendar year, have made some comments about the logic of giving additional burden relief. So I have raised a single eyebrow about it because let me put it this way, perhaps there would have been room for even more nuance. Then there is the expenditure side, on which I would like to draw a clear picture at once. This cabinet does not go beyond the expenditure frameworks in this cabinet period as we have agreed. So where does the extra money come from, the hundreds of million, just referred to in the dialogue with Mrs Sent? Where does the 100 million for youth care come from? Where does the extra money for education come from? Mr Vendrik asked for this in his first term. Where did spring note get the extra money for DOD? Where's the extra money for undermining coming from? That money was all decided in the government's spending frameworks. This is, as a rule, about occasional expenditure, or as the Prime Minister always puts it: serially incidental expenditure that we have left because we have lower expenditure elsewhere. That does not mean that we are going over these expenditure frameworks in a structural way. There is only one real exception: the pension agreement. But that only falls after this cabinet period when it comes to the less rapid increase in the AOW age.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u164	Maybe a few more clarifications. Firstly, the 2014 comparison does not mean that it was a kind of low point of the economic recession, where citizens had been bitten so deeply into the dust for a number of years now that something was needed. That's a different situation than it is now. The second thing I was thinking about was that you said in your speech: during this period of office. So that means that we're gonna spread that spending framework over those four or five years. That is quite different from the fact that we are talking about this financial year or the coming financial year. The last thing I wanted to ask before I stopped: the Minister made a promise that we will get an overview of what was promised after the third Tuesday of September. By what time can we have that? Can this be done during this debate, or will it be later?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u165	Three questions in one is always complicated, but I will try to dissect them again now. I thought your previous question wasn't just about the period between summer and now. 'Cause that's gonna be in the Navy's notebook. I thought Mr Schalk's question was broader, namely: what additional expenditure since the government agreement has been decided by the government over the last two and a half years? I wanted to answer that question. I'm going back in time for that. Then the answer to his second question. That trend in fiscal policy and those frameworks apply in two ways. These apply per year and they apply throughout the cabinet period. Both per year and over the entire cabinet period, this cabinet does not go beyond the expenditure frameworks. You never know, of course, because predicting the future is always difficult, so we still have some time to go, but in all the documents as they are now on the table, we do not go beyond those spending frameworks. There is one important exception for the long term: the pension agreement. Because because of the less rapid increase in the AOW age, you are taking an important step in terms of sustainability. I am going to say a few words about this in the direction of Mr Backer. Then there is Mr Schalk's first question, which I come home with from the back to the front. Mr Schalk says that there were exceptional circumstances in 2014. On the one hand, I agree with him, but on the other hand, Mr Schalk and others spoke: is the salmon standard still sacred? My argument is that it provides us with a very important basis. You must absolutely stick to that 95% of the time, but I would like to point out that on the revenue side of the budget it has never been a law of Medes and Persians. I've been there several times in the six years I've been a Member of Parliament. And by the way, what does the Cabinet do? That's also important to name. This reduction in the burden is a crucial reform, which is to reduce the gap between self-employed and normal workers. As is often the case, you also need a bribe for such a reform. From my responsibility as Minister of Finance, I therefore consider it prudent that when you decide to reduce the burden, you try to link it to a reform. Because if you don't, you're gonna do that reform one day and you're gonna need money for it. I think that's the typical Dutch experience.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u166	The Minister just said that in line with the VNG the conclusion was that the kick-off system was actually acceptable. My question to the Minister is: when did these talks with the UNG take place? I would like to believe you, but I can hardly imagine that, because more than half of the municipalities are almost falling over the edge. These municipalities are nevertheless represented by the VNG. Then there is a second comment. I also asked you how you feel about that system. It's a good one, but it's a bad one. What's your vision on that? The VNG will have discussed with you that the solution may also be found in the tax area of the municipalities. So what's your vision? And if you could just point out how the VNG stands in this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u167	I sincerely believe that I did not sum up what Mr Gerbrandy just said. If I did, I was too short, because then it might be a pleasant evening, but then tomorrow morning the troubles will not be seen. What I have wanted to say is that municipalities have been in the cabinet, primarily with the Minister of BZK and the Minister of VWS, to talk about the major problems that are seen in the broad and especially in the youth care sector. I think I just switched that with Mrs Sent. The municipalities also ask questions about the staircase-on-strap-afsystematiek. There are two things I would like to add to that. The first is that, in my own conversations with aldermen, I notice that the extent to which these problems are experienced and the step-on-step afsystematiek is seen as the major problem varies. That makes sense, too. That's one. The second is that in discussions with us on Mrs Sent's specific point, namely that municipalities suffer from under-utilization at the state level and the question of whether you should compensate for that now and, for example, compensate for the other side next year, said: that is not at the top of the list; that is not really necessary. That is at least as I understood it, so I hope that Mr Gerbrandy and I have now clarified this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u168	But what is your own vision? Do you think this is a wonderful system? If it isn't bad, everyone will be clapping, of course, but more than half of the municipalities now have a problem. How do you like that system?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u169	Given the problems that exist and given the problems that municipalities have raised, I think it is wise that we should look into dialogue with the municipalities to see if this is really the best possible system that we can come up with, or if we come up with something else. In my view, that was also the question put by Mrs Sent. I just want to point out that it's not such an idiot system that it's incredibly easy to think of something better quickly. This is also seen by provinces and municipalities. It is not for nothing that they were at least moderately positive in terms of both the amount and the system.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u170	I wonder if there is a bias in the aldermen who speak to the minister, because the G40 wants to go to another funding system. The Public Administration Council also recommended that part of the Municipal Fund be decoupled from the staircase-to-strap systematiek. I would therefore like to nuance the image that the Minister sketches with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u171	Mrs Sent actually says that I just ran into a very obscure group of aldermen at all. I don't rule out that observation being wider than just the aldermen. The only thing I've tried to put next to it is that we're really going to look at all the possible elements of the system. But yes, we have almost 400 municipalities in this country, and there are huge differences between a city like Amsterdam on the one hand and a village on the Veluwe on the other, both in terms of stair-on-travel systems, as well as in terms of the local swimming pool, and in terms of youth care. It is therefore not surprising that we are hearing different views in this beautiful and diverse country. I had already made progress on a page or three in the large and wide package I have before me, but I have already been able to deal with a number of issues, and hopefully to the satisfaction of your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u172	Are you still in the first block, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u173	I'm not on half the first block yet, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u174	Then I suggest that we give the Minister a chance to make a few meters later. Mr. Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u175	I also wondered where the minister was exactly in his reply. He's still in the first block, so that includes public finances and budgetary policy, right? Is that correct?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u176	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u177	I was wondering if the Minister would say more about that. A while ago, the Minister mentioned something which, of course, appealed to me, which I myself drew attention to in my speech, namely the fact that interest charges are historically low. In a piece by Professor Jacobs I read that they are lower than in the 200 years that we keep statistics of that. So you don't have to go back to Ruding; you can go back 200 years. I sense some kind of ambivalence with the Minister. On the one hand, he sees that there are really big implications. He therefore makes the link to the investment fund. On the other hand, he still chooses year in, year out to keep a surplus in the budget and to continue to pay off the public debt, while at the moment paying off the public debt simply costs money, with negative interest rates. I would therefore like to encourage the Minister to take the thinking a step further or at least to serve me in answering the question of how he looks at it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u178	To reassure Mr Van Apeldoorn, but certainly not to reassure myself: from 2021 onwards, this country looks at a shortage again. That's the prognosis now. Mr Van Apeldoorn's problem will therefore be resolved within a year and a half. Then the other point, the percentage of interest charges we have to eat up due to our debt. Mr Van Apeldoorn is quite right. I'm going to say more about the low interest rate and the fund in a moment, but let me do this as well as some kind of fast forward. In 1984 Ruding in that year was certainly Minister of Finance of 10%. The forecast is that in 2021 it will be 1%. This is about billions, billions, and billions that we no longer spend as sin on those interest charges, but on care, education, security, defence and the climate. This is very good news, apart from our differences in political choices, because the money that used to go to that interest rate was of course also wanted to be spent on other things.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u179	It is good that my problem will be resolved in a few years' time, but I wonder why it is such a big problem for the Minister that we will soon be highlighting a small deficit: a small deficit. He pointed out that interest charges would also increase slightly. Of course it is good that we can now spend that money on care, education and so on instead of interest, but the Minister is also familiar with the well-known accounting law that as long as interest rates are lower than nominal growth, public finances are sustainable. That's also in the Macro Economic Reconnaissance. This is also expected to be the case in 2021 on the basis of that benchmark.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u180	(NL) Mr President, shall I try to settle it with the fund in relation to the low interest rate? On that subject, I am going to say more. I shall now go on with the sustainability, because that is what Mr Backer asked for, and I think that is in line with what Mr Van Apeldoorn asked for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u181	That is, of course, fine, but then I have another related question that probably will not be addressed in the answer on the fund. That question concerns the desirability or the desired level of government debt. The Minister did say something about this, but I did not get much clarity about it. I heard Mr Wever say this morning: the lower the debt, the better it is, it should actually go to zero. I think that goes against all economic logic and science, when you're talking about the difference between government and household debt. I was wondering how the Minister looked at that. The debt is now below 50%, well below the Maastricht standard of the Stability Pact. That is a maximum standard in Europe. There are also economists who have said that we may need to move towards a minimum standard and say that that debt does not actually have to be below 50%, where you can debate the percentage. What is the Minister's view of a desirable level of debt? Or he says, "As long as we can pay off, we'll pay off, and we'll see where we come out?"
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u182	Let me also take a little more room to answer and try to make the answer almost philosophical here and there. I think that's okay, given what else we're gonna have to deal with. If you compare all the countries in the world, it shows very clearly that there is not an absolutely right or wrong answer. Why do I say that? A country such as Japan, with a government debt well over 100%, and I believe at the moment even 200%, has not got into trouble because of this huge debt. That's one side of the story. The other side of the story is that there are countries in Africa and South America that, if they have a debt of 20% or 30%, are in immediate trouble and are destroying their entire economy. So there is no law that goes on absolutely and always. That's fair to say, I think. Two. It is also true that the low interest rate climate does matter; not for nothing I just mentioned those percentages. As Minister of Finance, I have the dilemma that Ruding had to a lesser extent. The interest charges for money you borrow are still virtually zero in the year after that. The percentages are changing a bit, but as a minister I find myself in a strange situation where I have contracted a loan for 30 years and I am getting money as a capital market bonus. That is almost impossible to understand, but that is the reality. There is also an important "but" attached to it. That money will have to be repaid sometime. If history shows one thing, it's that this is a great country, small in size, but with a medium-sized economy, which is also very volatile. If the European economy and the world economy are doing well, the Dutch economy is doing very well, but the opposite is also true. In that triangle in which you want to invest and reduce burdens, you also look at what you're doing for the next generation of sovereign debt, I think it's very defensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u183	I had just proposed that the Minister should finish his block and save up the questions until the end. Is it possible for Mr. Otten to hold on to that question until the end of the first block? All right, I'll give him the floor briefly, but then I suggest we let the minister finish the job.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u184	That's gonna be a hell of a block, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u185	I do not think the Minister's reply is very convincing. I think Mr. Van Apeldoorn's gonna be pretty well stocked after all. The President of De Nederlandsche Bank also said that there is no need to lower public debt and that a few percent more or less sovereign debt has no effect on the capital market. In fact, he recently indicated in the Lower House that there is room for burden relief. My question to the Minister is: why does he want to borrow 50 billion for a fund and does he not see room for burden relief, while yesterday the Central Planning Office showed, whatever you may think, that purchasing power is going back to zero? Soon we'll pay off the government debt and no one will have any more purchasing power left. Then we find ourselves in a situation such as Ceaușescu, which, one month before his resignation, had completely repaid the public debt, but ultimately the people were not happy about it either. Can you explain to me why this is possible for the fund but not for other relief?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u186	So we're ahead on block four, the fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u187	Yes. It doesn't happen very often, but I actually agreed with everything up to the first question. And then I came to the question. I myself did not argue to Mr Van Apeldoorn that 1% of public debt would be a game changer. On the contrary. I have even explained that the Netherlands, given the low interest charges, is really in a new situation in relation to the past. Why did I have so much discussion with the Chamber about that salmon system anyway? Because the cabinet did exactly what Mr Otten referred to. The cabinet started with a cost reduction of 6.5 billion compared to the basic path and added a small 2 billion last summer; money to the benefit of workers in particular. So I think we're both doing it. Mr. Chairman. Then I'll be back with Mr. Backer. He was right to ask about the sustainability figures. I understand very well that he asked if the discount rate could be involved. My experience as a minister is that the Planning Bureau is not only completely independent, but also the only one to calculate the sustainability figures. The Ministry of Finance also comes up with its own forecasts for debt and balance and a number of things more, but the sustainability is calculated once in a while by the Planning Bureau, in independence. The next calculation will be this fall. Mr Backer rightly referred to the manageability of public expenditure. He hit a delicate point, because he knows how I feel about it. He stressed the importance of reform. I very much agree with that. That was the inspiration for me to say in the circles of the cabinet and the coalition: if we are to reduce the burden, let us link it with a reform, in this case to reduce the gap between workers andzzp'ers, regardless of the political views on this, also in anticipation of what Borstlap is supposed to come up with, but I shall say more about it in a moment. And then I would like to say to Mr Backer that the cabinet has asked the WRR and the ESC to come up with an investigation into the rising costs of care, because let us be honest: that is the big cost, in absolute terms, but also in terms of growth. As important as this subject is, it has the ability to push all these other children from social security to safety and climate. Mr. Chairman. Mr Vendrik asked whether the Millions' Note could become even more of a broad prosperity note. I heard the echo of Mr Snels, who was also content with the steps we have already taken. I can promise him that this issue will remain wide on the agenda, but I cannot promise too much either, because we do not yet have the systematic way of applying broad prosperity to every issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u188	Mr. Backer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u189	Mr President, I would, of course, not like to interrupt a commitment to my colleagues from GroenLinks, given the great importance. Let's get back to the discount foot. Thanks for the answer. I did not mean that we were going to put things in the CPB's mouth, but the Minister replied to my written questions that the CPB would keep its own system under review. The only thing I would like to ask is to include this subject, in any way, in that consideration, not to count upon us, but as an intellectually pure thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u190	I can very well imagine that question. Can I agree with Mr Backer that I would like to inform the Planning Bureau that I was given the suggestion in the debate that we should consider this issue? Then it is up to the Planning Bureau to say 'yea or nay' to that. I think I've said a lot about the state debt. Mr Wever referred to Sweden, which has indeed chosen a target, after a period of much higher public debt. That too was partly an echo of the debate I had with the House of Representatives. But we have this trend in budgetary policy. And the complicated thing is this. I'll be very open about that to the Chamber. Ask three wise economists for their opinion and you get four or five. This applies specifically to this issue. So I think it would be wise to keep looking for the optimum in the expenditure-burden-state debt triangle. I am not really in a position to say that it should be only the third because the other two are subordinate, quite the contrary. I am very aware of the changing landscape. I am only also aware of the enormous volatility of the economy. And perhaps I can say again how frightening it is to see with which budget my predecessor Wouter Bos went to his last Prince's Day just before the economic crisis, or one-after-last, I don't remember. Anyway, in nine months, those numbers have been seriously adjusted down five times. That shows that the good weather can all of a sudden be over, although I have no reason to think so now. Mr. Chairman. This is a moderate connection movement, but I have to say that the Dutch economy is doing well for the time being and that this is still the case next year. I would like to emphasise one thing: although there are all kinds of downside risks, such as the Brexit and the trade war, it only takes place between the United States and China, and such as geopolitical uncertainty at the edges of Europe, there are more Dutch people at work than ever. That is incredibly good news for a lot of people who were writing job applications at the kitchen table a year or two ago. Mr Wever asked about business investment and exports, while Mr Otten said that consistent government policies helped. Of course, he's right about that. My perception is that your locational climate is actually a sum of three things. First of all, if you're a stable country. That is about political stability and, believe it or not, we have it in this country. It is also about the quality of schools, education, roads and so on. Block 2 is made up of taxation, which the Secretary of State can say more about if necessary. The third part is how much effort you make to attract companies. We'll forget about that in this country. By the way, I'm not at all gloomy about how attractive the Netherlands is when I just look at the companies that are considering or have already decided to come to the Netherlands because of the Brexit. I very much agreed with Mr Wever's plea for reciprocity. I often take that word in my mouth myself. In my view, Mr Wever also raised a point that Mr Van Kesteren has worked out in more detail: the relationship between business and government, a point which I think is quite right. I also very much agree with him that this dialogue is crucial. In this country, no one has been in charge for over 400 years. The seventeenth century came along with several years, for which thanks; it was good to hear all this again. But nobody's been in charge here for 400 years, so we're used to doing things in dialogue in this country. For myself and for many colleagues in the cabinet, this has been the reason again in recent months to seek additional dialogue with employers, various employee organisations and a number of AEX companies. We wanted to hear from them how they themselves looked at this problem, but we also wanted to outline to them what it feels like in politics. Of course, Mr Van Kesteren was also asked who needed to take a bigger step. There will be differences of opinion. As a cabinet, you always have to take feedback and criticism to heart and see what you can do with it, but the business community must also realise how the problem of fixed versus flex is being looked at. And it needs to realise what impact it will have if the CEO's salary increases by 20% or 30% and then negotiates whether the employees get 1% or 1.5%. I'm not talking about salaries, but it does affect the discussion. That's one of the things I'm putting in there, besides the discussion about fixed versus flex.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u191	The Minister was just making a few sensible remarks about broad prosperity, but I had the impression that he was cut off and that when the leaf with many more beautiful answers fell off the table. That's what I'm really worried about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u192	Whatever answer I give now, it can only disappoint. I think this was pretty much what I wanted to say about it. But let me try to make it gold-diggering. This subject is part of the 21st century. And my deepest conviction is that in ten years' time this issue will be even more prominent in the Millions Note than it is now. But I really wanted to make a huge move in this Millions Note, precisely because I see the great importance of this subject, also at the request of the GroenLinks Group in the House of Representatives. I just don't see how what has been exchanged in the debate about what should still be calculated can be arranged in a curse and a sigh.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u193	I can go both ways with this. I would immediately like to assume that the Minister deeply believes that broad prosperity is also at his heart and that we are really going to take as many steps as possible in the coming years to ensure that broad prosperity is a starting point in the Millions of the Future. But I can also go back to the past, to the Minister of Finance who has just passed by, Mr Bos. He also included the broad concept of prosperity in the Millions Note in 2007. That was a rather nice chapter, but when I look at the progress that has been made over the last ten, no, twelve years, that was the 2008 budget, I think, and we are talking about the 2020 budget, which is a bit disappointing. And I also wanted to say in my speech that it is not just the system that you have to work out, and I understand that that is complicated, but that it is first and foremost a political choice. What can we, the present generation, do in the next decade? I referred first to the climate issue, but there are many more challenges, as contained in the Sustainable Development Goals, to which the Netherlands has committed itself. The agenda will monitor 2030 and so on, and so on. I assume that this is not just a systematic but a politically accepted obligation. So my point is that it must be a guiding principle in the millions of notes of the future. That is complicated, that is difficult and not all the sums will be available immediately, but that is the starting point for the discussion. I just don't hear the Minister say that yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u194	Nor can it be excluded that, despite my goodwill, I cannot go as far as the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance might want on this subject. Let me mention two more subjects, of which I think the glass is really half full. If you look back in about ten years and then wonder where you actually made a step change in the climate transition, then my guess is that they will point out the year 2018-2019, regardless of what might come next. That was the burning ambition of this cabinet. It is also appreciated by my fellow Members in particular, because my contribution to this was extremely limited. That's one. So that's really different. The second thing I would like to highlight is that I know Mr Vendrik as someone who reads the Millions Note very carefully. He will have read that the cabinet has made it very clear that the investment from the fund will, of course, have to take place within the framework conditions of Paris. That is an important indication of the fact that the fund, which I am referring to, is about the economy of the future and not about building a new petrochemical complex, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u195	Maybe in conclusion, then, this question. We are now discussing the Millions Note for 2020. What Millions note for 2021 can we expect here? Can the Minister say something about this so that we can all feel here about the progress that the Minister would like to make?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u196	This is my first opportunity to discuss with the First Chamber the Millions Note for 2020, a year that has not even begun. Mr Vendrik is asking me to make promises in nine months' time. To be honest, that doesn't seem wise to me. I cannot oblige a new cabinet to do so, but at least as long as I am Minister of Finance, I think we should continue along this road, in which we pay broad and broad attention to broad prosperity every year in the Millions' Note. But for how exactly we are going to do that and where there is perhaps progress in relation to this year's Millions Note, I would like to ask Mr Vendrik a little bit of clemency.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u197	Mr. Vendrik, really until... No? Go ahead, Minister Hoekstra.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u198	The good news is that I am staying with Mr Vendrik, because he also asked about the broad monetary policy and the tight budgetary policy. I think I have just said a lot about tight budgetary policies. I don't recognize that for the Netherlands. The Council of State and the Planning Office do not recognize this either. They say that the government is pursuing an expansionary fiscal policy. I do recognize the broad monetary policy, but as Minister of Finance, I cannot say much about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u199	Of course, this was about restrictive fiscal policy, and in particular about the euro crisis and its response. Then something crazy happened in Europe. This is a rather serious debate. I understand that the Minister of Finance does not want to comment directly on the European Central Bank. I don't invite him to that either. But I believe that we can expect the Finance Minister to have an orderly and important debate on what has happened in the euro area in recent years. I have tried to put this into practice by pointing out the extremely bizarre and historically unique split of a budgetary policy in Europe run by rules which the Minister has already called into question a little bit. I think he is right in saying that and a monetary policy that has gone completely the other way since 2012. I think that's quite an issue. I invite the Minister to look for the debate and reflect on what we have to do in the years to come. Mr Backer referred earlier to the arrival of the euro in the 1990s. This is exactly what we need to talk about. If we want to keep the euro in Europe over the last ten years, we need to look together for the debate on what to do with the legacy of the past ten years. The euro project is not finished. The gap is bizarre. This has consequences for the years to come, even when it comes to the question of who is at stake in the event of a bad situation and a period of low economic growth, because that is all conceivable. There are no answers at the moment. That's what I'm looking for the debate on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u200	I'd be delighted to do that. I would at most like to point out that every question is subject to a request for reflection. Maybe at some point that's gonna do something with the stamina. But I'm happy to continue. I am going to make two comments in the direction of your Chamber and in particular towards the Green Left Group. First, with regard to the euro. Various studies have been shown by the European Union and by the arrival of the euro, for various reasons in particular, by a country such as the Netherlands. I am about to say a lot more about Europe, also towards Mr Van Kesteren. At the same time, you have to be so honest that if we did it again, we would of course never start the euro under the conditions of 2002. See what's happened in the last ten years. See all the guarantees we have added in the crisis, in the area of banking union, in the area of saving countries. All sorts of things that we had to build up in the front turned out to be necessary in the crisis. In doing so, we have become wise through damage and shame. I think that the way forward in many areas is to work together at European level. But there is also sufficient reason to be very concerned about this European cooperation, especially when it comes to the resilience of the euro area economy and the euro area as a whole. Structural, sustainable reforms are still lacking in many of these countries. That's a little bridge to the second part of my answer. You can always think about what rules we have now that 3%, that 60% and that midterm objective... would be even better. I'd like to be available for it. My only comment would be: in the submanesque, every rule that people invent is imperfect. That will also apply to the next set of rules. Moreover, the problem of that 3% and that 60% is not so much that they might have been better, but above all that the countries for whom they should have been giving direction have been categorically slapped on their boots. That is the reality. If you make a list with that 3% and that 60%, you put all the countries of the European Union next to it and you make the box red if countries have not met one or both goals, then you get a great red coloring plate like my kids often do. That is the reality. Now we in Europe are going to talk again about that 3% and that 60%. I said to my fellow Members: listen, the real discussion should be about growth and about reform. If you are also talking about budgetary rules as part of that, I am not necessarily against it, but it does have something risky as the countries that do not have sustainable economic growth, which run away from reforms, which have a huge debt, which cannot score in football terms, decide to move the goalposts a little further to the side. That's pretty fragile.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u201	I see that Mr Otten wishes to interrupt, but Mr Vendrik may want to finish his little debate on the interruption first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u202	This is exactly what I intended in my speech on broad prosperity. The agenda in Europe, with repeated recommendations to some countries to focus on structural reforms and on growth, is an old agenda. We need a different agenda in Europe, which will ultimately make the euro area more sustainable, because of its economic impact if we do not finish Paris in time, transitions and so on. That aside. I asked the Minister about the macroeconomic imbalances. We can point to a number of countries, in particular the southern flank of Europe, but here we also have two notorious offenders whose sound economic policies in the euro area would be expected: the Netherlands and Germany. Our surpluses are bigger than ever. The surplus assets we export lead to debt in a different way, especially in the euro area. There's no other way. That's why you need symmetry for an orderly eurozone. The Netherlands has hardly wanted to have that debate. My point is that the euro area would be better off if we were just going to have that debate. It should perhaps also be given and taken a little more in Europe. Just like at the time of the credit crisis: it was our money, it was our banks that invested there. But then the place collapsed and the bill was placed there. That's the asymmetry I'm talking about. So a brief response from the Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u203	I think the question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u204	on the macroeconomic imbalances procedure, which is not working and which should actually be revived.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u205	I would like to make a point of order. We've got a lot of long interruptions now. The minister's still in his first block. We've been at it for an hour. At this rate, the Minister will be ready at noon, if I extrapolate. Then we'll have the Secretary of State. Then we'll have the second term of office. Then we will have the Minister's second term and then the Secretary of State's second term. The Rules of Procedure provide for short interruptions and a second term for the Chamber in which you can make your point, if you have sufficient speaking time to do so. I would therefore suggest to the House that the Minister should finish the first block and then commit the interruptions there, that first block is not yet ready, for the record, so it will be three o'clock tonight or now to agree that you do not mind that we will continue until tomorrow morning. That's what I'm telling you. If I do not see any objections, my request is now for the Minister to complete the block and for the Chamber to keep the interruptions short in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, with brief clarification questions, and to keep the substantive response for the second term. That is the way the debate is organised here. I therefore ask the Minister to finish at least the first block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u206	Mr President, that is what I am going to do. No matter what the order of service looks like, I look forward to it. Well, let me wipe the last of the interruptions with you. Mr Vendrik really does a little too much self- chastisement here. There really is a difference between the discussion on the macroeconomic imbalance that relates to surpluses and the discussion that is just about sustainable economic growth, the 3% and the 60%. Moreover, I have just told Mr Van Apeldoorn that the surplus of the Netherlands is not sustainable; see 2021. The Netherlands has a very volatile economy. It is also important to see where that surplus comes from. We do not have that at the expense of some poor southern European countries, as is sometimes thought to be popular. No, we have that to an important extent because we're getting a huge amount of goods. If that were at the expense of anyone, that would be Germany. I think the reality is that it is more pleasant for some people, and I do not mean Mr Vendrik to blame not only Germany. I always take a few of us off when I hear this kind of criticism in Europe in which the Netherlands is also mentioned. Mr. Chairman. Mr Frentrop asked about the population forecast. That sounded familiar to me. In the Lower House, Mr Dijkhoff's motion asked for the development of the population. I admit that I will have the results of the execution of that motion shared with the First Chamber as soon as they arrive. Perhaps that is a good answer to Mr Fentrop. Mr Ester was quite right to ask about the multiannual budget and purchasing power. In particular, I would like to say that of course you always want better purchasing power figures, but this is the best possible assessment of our independent calculator: the planning agency. I watch for it every time, and I would like to say it again here, to pretend that that is some kind of promise. It is an assessment that can fall up and down, unfortunately, by all kinds of factors, including factors that the cabinet simply does not control. Mr. Chairman. Mr Gerbrandy asked why the distribution of income looks like this when you divide it into quartiles or deciles. The good news is that all groups working, not working, young, older, with low incomes or high incomes are making progress. They are making considerable progress and also more than if the cabinet had not intervened through the additional burden relief. Mr Gerbrandy is right in saying that the cabinet has once again made the choice of making workers extra rewards and working more attractive. Mr Ester and Mr Van Apeldoorn quite rightly asked about an issue which I think concerns all three of us for a long time. That's poverty. Mr Ester spoke specifically about working poor. I think Mr Van Apeldoorn was talking about child poverty. I'm about to say something about that. The percentage of working poor is relatively low, but it remains something intricate that you are at work and not enough. The cabinet has already taken measures to reduce this problem by reducing the burden on labour and tightening the rules on payrolling. Is that gonna fix everything? No, I don't think so. I think it is an important step in the right direction. Mr Van Rooijen indicated that the purchasing power of older people was lower than the estimated purchasing power. He is right: there is always a difference between estimates and reality. This is true for young people, and it is true for all income groups. The same is true for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u207	The minister finishes the block first, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u208	Mr Van Apeldoorn asked whether it was a task of the government to reduce the wealth inequality. For the record, the CBS came up with new statistics on capital inequality yesterday. This shows that in 2018 there has been a further decline in property inequality between households. Mr Van Apeldoorn also knows that the so-called gini coefficient is primarily about income and not about wealth. This shows that the situation in the Netherlands is very stable and that the income disparities in our country are among the smallest in the world. Mr. Chairman. It's almost unbelievable, but that brings me to the end of my first block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u209	Out of five.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u210	Yeah, out of five.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u211	Then there's time for a few brief interruptions. Go ahead, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u212	Minister Hoekstra remembers that on the other side of the street, we have had spicy debates on the purchasing power of older people. I think we shared the conclusion that the estimate for the elderly was at least 1% lower every year and for three years, and then on the negative side. It went from minus 0.5% to minus 1.5%. I pointed out to the Minister this afternoon that this year's Tax Plan includes an increase in the working discount of 420 and an increase in the old discount of zero for the elderly. For the next three years, the employment discount will go up by €1,000. Normally, the table correction factor, which is endogenous, does not specifically increase exogenously. In the case of workers or workers, it is therefore plus 1,000 and in the case of older people, the zero line will be in the next three years. Yesterday, the planning agency indicated that due to the discount rates and interest rates, the purchasing power of the elderly will fall dramatically over the next three years, i.e. by -2.5% for three years. Minister, I would hope with you that in this case it is estimates and not predictions. But I predict that this will happen because the interest rate is fixed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u213	What is your question, Mr. Van Rooijen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u214	The Minister says that the purchasing power for older people is not always fulfilled. My point is that for years it has been much worse for the elderly than for the workers. Does the Minister recognize that? Sometimes I just ask yes-no questions. The Prime Minister never responds, but I hope this Minister does. Do you recognize this? And why is a tax reduction of €1,000 proposed for workers over the next three years and zero for the elderly? That means great tax age discrimination. I will go into this in detail in Mr Snel's report on the Tax Plan. I'm afraid I'm gonna need a lot of air time for that. As with the interest rate, I insist on this: this is common age discrimination. The elderly already pay 3,000 more taxes because their tax rebates are 3,000 lower than those of the workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u215	I think your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u216	Let me try to further nuance Mr Van Rooijen's image. I repeat briefly what I said: they are the best possible estimates; not from the cabinet, but from the Planning Office. Everyone's bummed like a plug when it's disappointing. This applies to young people as well as to older people. At the same time, last summer, the cabinet made it quite aware that every group is making progress, including the elderly. Mr Van Rooijen says he wants more. I understand that very well in itself. The elderly are very dear to the cabinet, but that applies to every group in society. It is fair to say that for pensioners it is not only sorrow and torment. Mr Van Rooijen knows as well as I do that under no group in the Netherlands there is as little poverty as among pensioners. Mr Van Rooijen also knows as well as I do that there are few countries in Europe where the position of older people is as good as in the Netherlands. This has to do with our pension system and our first pillar. It's important to name it anyway. It is not often the case, but sometimes Mr Van Rooijen is a bit too gloomy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u217	One final quick question, Mr. Van Rooijen. In your second term, you will be given the opportunity to speak in greater detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u218	Mr President, this is just my first interruption. Some of my colleagues have spoken many times and for a long time. And here we go again: I don't have an answer yet and I have to stop now. Let me put it another way: the average supplementary pension in the Netherlands is €500 gross, next to the AOW. This does not mean that pensions are high. In the care sector, this means that half of the employees and pensioners build up a pension of €250 gross. You should not say that the elderly in the Netherlands are doing well. That's just the 5% or 10% at the top. Apart from estimates and forecasts, my point is that you have decided with the Secretary of State and the whole cabinet that the labour cut for the workers will increase by €1,000 net over the next three years. The elderly get zero for three years. They do not get a raise, no indexation, no tax reduction of €1,000 and they are reduced for a further three years by a total of 10% on their pension. That's a hell of a discrimination, isn't it? Then don't tell me I'm standing here whining a little about the elderly. It's a hell of a scandal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u219	I didn't mean the latter and I didn't say it. It is really important to stress that the cabinet, quite rightly, has and will continue to have a very strong eye for the generation that is now retired, the generation that the country has co-built after the war, the generation that was then young and now retired. This is something that the cabinet is very keen on. However, I am opposed to the caricature and the words that Mr Van Rooijen puts in my mouth, because that does not do justice to reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u220	One more time. I also got that answer from the Prime Minister. He said: yes, but you shouldn't look at the employment discount in isolation, because the AOW is going up. Yeah, it goes endogenous automatically, but that's not the merit of Rutte every year with a prickle up. I want to know why this cabinet decides to increase the labour discount for workers by €1,000 and not to increase the elderly discount. That is a great discrimination, because before the Tax Act all taxpayers are equal. So I told you that the total tax discount for workers is €6,500 and for older people €3,000. The difference is even more than €3,000. €3,000 net per year the elderly pay more in tax because they have less tax discount!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u221	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u222	But I can't get an answer!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u223	Then you're gonna have to do it with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u224	That is the case every time. Why do some of my colleagues get very long answers when I never really get an answer? It's more like: you shouldn't ask such annoying questions, because those elderly people actually have it quite well. Mr. Chairman. I think it's getting really nasty. This is the second time and it may happen again with the Tax Plan. I expressed myself with caution this afternoon, including towards you. I will not mention names, but I have colleagues who sometimes have five to ten minutes to speak without asking a question; last time too. I don't come here with stories. I'm asking a question, but I'm systematically not getting an answer. I'm not gonna settle for that. You, President, have the task, the power and the right to ask the cabinet, the rulers to reply carefully as I see fit. If they don't want and can't, I don't blame you. Then you have done your best, but I do not accept that there are rulers here who do not answer. I said this afternoon that I was hoping this minister would do better, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u225	I suggest that we give the Minister the opportunity to respond as he can. Then we'll leave it at that. Soon you'll get a second term and then you can give another response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u226	Then I have 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u227	That's not my fault, but you've had a whole minute, even though you've exceeded your time. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u228	Mr. Chairman. I would almost get the impression that Mr Van Rooijen is getting excited.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u229	Almost.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u230	However, that does not seem logical to me, not even in view of my cautious experience, Mr Van Rooijen and I have had all kinds of debates in friendship and collegiality, here, on the other side, and this evening I have this pleasure again that the conciseness or length of my reply does not automatically contribute to the appreciation. I have just tried to argue, and I could refer Mr Van Rooijen to my previous reply, but I try again to say that the cabinet has chosen very strongly to have all groups of society correctly informed in the plus, 'the plus', Mr Van Rooijen will say, which is to be divided in the context of the August decision-making round. That's what the numbers show. The first "but" is that it is an assessment of the Planning Bureau and not a promise. The second is that the cabinet has chosen to look at everyone widely on the one hand, but also to focus on workers in particular. That is a choice made in the coalition agreement, a choice that 50PLUS may make differently. Then there are small differences between the different groups. The cabinet and I think that's gonna be provable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u231	Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u232	Mr. Chairman. I had to wait until the end of the block, but I still have a few questions. Let's talk about child poverty. The Minister has said a few words about this, but what about the implementation of the motion that was adopted here a few years ago? At that time, the Minister indicated that he was going to make serious work of it, but we have not seen it so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u233	It was in another block, but let me answer it right away. My observation is that the Secretary of State I had her on the phone this morning did indeed work on that. I say yes to the request immediately after Mr Van Apeldoorn's introduction in the first term. His question was whether I would like to contract again with the Secretary of State to see what the status of the crop is. I will make it even more beautiful: I will not only talk to her, I will also make sure that she or I inform Mr Van Apeldoorn in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u234	Thank you for that commitment. I await this with tension and hope that serious work will be done. Then there's the power inequality. I thought that the Minister was very easy to get rid of by pointing to the gini coefficient and saying that, as I know, it is about income inequality, but that I specifically asked for property inequality. The gini coefficient has indeed increased a little in the Netherlands. If you look at other sizes, where not the middle is looked at, but more at the extremes, then income inequality has increased even further in the Netherlands. However, I specifically asked about the power inequality, which is extreme in the Netherlands. 10% of the wealthiest households own about two thirds of their wealth. My question was whether the Minister thought that was fine or acceptable, a result of the free market economy that we had nothing to do with, or he said, with other parties in the House of Representatives, D66 was also concerned that this might be a problem that had to be addressed in one way or another?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u235	I rarely feel disappointed by Mr Van Apeldoorn, but in my reply just now I started with the lack of capacity and a reference to the figures that I believe were made available yesterday and are now available to the public. Those show that capital inequality has decreased in the Netherlands in 2018. I added to that the gini coefficient. I'm gonna finish dressing it up. Mr Van Apeldoorn is right when he says that there are considerable differences behind statistics, including in the Netherlands, but it is also fair to say that the government has some, but only limited, influence on capital inequality, see also the statistics of the CBS. Price developments in the housing market are one of the factors that determines very strongly whether people's wealth is increasing or decreasing. We know that this is possible since the crisis. I thought I'd already answered the first part of the question after I let myself be tempted to say something about the gini.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u236	The capacity inequality in the Netherlands remains very high. I'll stick with that. According to my former colleague, Mr Reuten, he is one of the highest in the OECD. The fluctuation from year to year does not change that much. The minister says he can't do much about it, but that's bullshit. You have all kinds of instruments at your disposal. In any case, I refer to a motion adopted in the House of Representatives to investigate a possible capital charge, a bit the millionaire tax of D66 and the SP. I understand this investigation is coming. We look forward to that with interest. At least that gives you a direction in which you could find solutions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u237	That is true, but with regard to the first: Mr Reuten added, thoroughly as he was and is, that it was about capital in particular for taxes. When comparing the Netherlands, it is often about input tax in terms of income, but the post-tax situation is really a different one. I ended up at the block of income, but I've had a lot of that. That can be quite short. The Secretary of State will appoint everything related to taxation. I have already said a lot about households and the distribution, including in the debate on the Rooijen interruption. Mr Van Apeldoorn specifically asked about raising the first disc and lowering the top rate. In my view, the Secretary of State has already mentioned the government's view of the two-disc system referred to by Mr Van Apeldoorn and how we are making work more profitable with these interventions. Mr. Chairman. Then Mr Frentrop asked me about the state of the collective burden. Actually, he asked for two things. He asked first of all: is that state of affairs problematic and is that reason for concern? And his second question was: can it not be included in the little blue booklet? It is absolutely a point of attention, but I do believe that for the first time in a longer period the burden pressure will decrease slightly from 2019 to 2021. In this respect, Mr Frentrop is served. Maybe not to the extent he would like it to be, but it has absolutely our attention and we are doing something about it. With regard to the blue booklet: it is not often that I have already implemented a commitment when the question was asked to me, but that information should be available on page 45 of the current blue booklet. Let me assure Mr Frentrop that I will take that information back with me at the next edition of the blue booklet, because there is a great deal of interest in it. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to the third block, the expenses. By the way, I have already done quite a bit of that. I have already recalled that the cabinet is investing in education, security, defence, infrastructure, asylum, justice and youth care, with a clear political will. The cabinet tries to do so as best it can and to choose a sensible and real distribution. As I have already promised, we will deal specifically with those things that have made a great deal of news in recent weeks, such as undermining, nitrogen and teacher salaries. Mr Wever asked about the planned investments from 2019 and the available budgets for 2020. Mrs Sent asked a fair question about what I am doing to prevent under-exhaustment. The answer to that last question is that I am trying to do so by looking as early as possible with colleagues in the cabinet to see where this underexhaustment might occur and how we can prevent it. The other side of the balance sheet is, of course, that I would like the money to be spent wisely, otherwise Mrs Sent would say 'you have spent it, but it is a waste'. So that balance is in it. It is fair to say that next year the problem will be even less, but I think that the formation took a long time because ministries had to make plans and the cabinet also wanted to spend money in 2018 immediately, especially in the case of Infrastructure and Defence, and I mentioned just now that the ministers had difficulty spending the full 100% of what is available to them. Of course, that also has my particular attention. And, I say to Mr Wever and Mrs Sent, that delay is not a setback, because in our system it has been decided that you have that 1% annual margin anyway, but that, for example, the Ministry of Infrastructure has a 100% year-end margin in respect of a large part of its own budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u238	I understand from the Minister's replies that the Navy's note is due at the beginning of December.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u239	No later than 1 December.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u240	Then the cabinet will clarify how surplus funds will be used in 2019 for, for example, those 460 million euros for education, following the agreement of the Minister of Education with the unions and employers' organisations. Am I saying it that well? And then we are going to see what the direct consequence is for next year's budget and the subsequent budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u241	I am now threatening to go on state-of-the-art extraordinary glass of ice, because there have been preliminary talks about the Navy note in the Cabinet, but I am not supposed to clap out of the school, the Council of Ministers. Formally, the Navy's note has to come back there and I will send it to Parliament by 1 December at the latest. I have read the newspaper carefully and I think I understand that the cabinet intends to make additional investments in a number of areas. If this were the case, they should also find a place in the Navy's Note.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u242	And then it might well be that this could not only be reflected in the Autumn note, but that it is also quite conceivable, perhaps, that there will be a letter of amendment to the outstanding draft budgets that are now in the House of Representatives for 2020. It could be, couldn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u243	It is tempting to answer that question with'maybe', but to put it precisely: The autumn note is about the current year. The autumn note has relatively much attention this year, even here, but is typically not discussed extensively in the Upper House, is my limited experience. One of Mr Vendrik's questions was about the structural situation, which I understand very well. But that is typically a conversation the cabinet has with the spring note and again before the Millions note. The autumn note only allows money, if it is left over from the system of this calendar year, or to be used to repay the public debt, or to be used for additional expenditure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u244	Mr. Vendrik, your third? You're getting rid of it. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u245	Mr. Chairman. I have answered the question of the VVD and the PvdA with regard to the under-exhaustment. I have already promised Mr Schalk... Mr President, you have changed the layout of the benches so much that I automatically look the wrong way when I am a guest here, but I have found Mr Schalk. I already promised him I'd come up with a sum. Don't let me try to spoon it here, because then there's a chance I'll forget something. Mr. Chairman. Mr Vendrik also asked for additional resources for legal aid. This has already been mentioned by one minister, but I honestly believe that both ministers, the Minister for Justice and Security and the Minister for Legal Protection, are responsible for this. The financial explanation will be done to the full in the Navy's Note. The same applies to education, which we discussed. Mr Van Apeldoorn asked about the problem of unhealthy houses in relation to housing. I understood him in such a way that he thought that the term 'people's housing', introduced by at least one party, was an asset to the concept of 'home market'. In the House of Representatives, a motion was adopted, among other things, by the member Beckerman, no stranger to Mr Van Apeldoorn, in order to arrive at a national approach to the fungal problem. To his pleasure, my colleague from BZK is going to carry out this motion. Then Mr Schalk asked about the Climate Law. He actually put it next to the NATO system and the standards. He is absolutely right that financial coverage is always the starting point for new laws and that the objectives of the Climate Agreement, because they include the measures, are budget-based. They have already been included in the budget in the last spring and fully incorporated into the Millions note in the August decision-making process. Furthermore, the wordings always listen very closely to each of these issues, see also what is being said about the NATO standard and the 2%. Mr. Chairman. Of course, I congratulated Mr Vendrik on his maiden speech, but he also used that maiden speech to ask an incredible amount of questions, for which I am of course very grateful. He asked whether, in consultation with the planning agencies, a green sustainability study could also be developed which would be repeated periodically. At the beginning of this month, the planning agency published the billing of the Climate Agreement, which, I believe, gives a good picture, even in the long term. In December, a new study will be launched by the Planning Bureau on the sustainability of public finances. I hope that will give us sufficient direction. Mr Vendrik is, of course, right: there will be a moment in the future that will prove obsolete and that it will have to happen again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u246	Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u247	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. The Minister said that it listens very closely when it comes to NATO's 2% standard. I listened very closely, but I didn't hear him say anything about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u248	Because we in the Netherlands have said that we want to work towards this NATO standard in the long term, the good news is that I also think from Mr Schalk's point of view that the cabinet is investing very heavily in Defence. This is the largest investment made by the cabinet, compared to what the budget was. In total, it amounts to about 1.5 or 1.51 billion, I believe. On top of that, additional expenditure of 460 million ECU has been added to the Spring note. That then goes back to around 120 million. So there is a very substantial investment, but, as much as the Minister of Defence would like me to say so, if I say now that we commit to the 2% at the end of this cabinet period, I have a triple problem. That's why I'm trying to fall back on the agitated language on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u249	2024 was mentioned by the Prime Minister last year and again this year. My question then is whether 2024 is the year in which that 2% standard was achieved or that we are striving for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u250	I'll try not to do too much freestyling. I think that 2024 came from the so-called Welsh pledge. That was a consultation of the Heads of Government of the NATO countries and it was agreed that an effort would be made and, in my view, 2024 was marked as a final moment. At the same time, if you look at where most NATO countries are now standing, those states are constantly in The Economist and have some included in the Millions Note, which are in all kinds of places to be found........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ I'm not sure if all of them will be able to close that hole in the next four years. It is a very important subject for this cabinet. We are making very substantial investments, including structural ones. That is what we added to the Navy's note or, I am sorry, to the Spring Note, which I keep confusing. Mr. Chairman. Then there is a very topical topic: nitrogen. Mr Vendrik and Mr Ester asked for it, and I think it was mainly about the financial side. I am moving very carefully here, because of course there is a lot to say about this dossier, but it is also very moving and Minister Schouten is in the lead and others in the cabinet are also very busy carrying it. On the financial side, we have actually found together that we want to solve these problems coûte que coûte and that we want to ensure that the country can stay on the move. Then the cabinet's approach is that of course you handle money prudently, but that should not be a blockade to find solutions. We have agreed on a three-stage approach to finance, and my observation is that that really should be more than enough. The first is looking at existing resources, which are already available in the area of climate. There are several jars that might lend themselves to use for this. That's one. Then two. There are a lot of provinces that have relatively many funds dedicated to this type of problem. It therefore seems logical to me that it should take place explicitly in dialogue with provinces. And three of them are, of course, a bit of a sin against the commandment that I have just tried to hang on to the Navy note, which Minister Schouten has already said that we will also make a further half billion available as a budget reserve in order to ensure that there is at least sufficient financial resources to deal with the problem of nitrogen. Mr Koffeman then actually advocated a warm clean-up. As far as he was concerned, all the resources had to go towards a permanent reduction in the number of animals. I think I'll disappoint him, but not surprise him if I say that the cabinet's approach is like another one. We are working very hard on the problem of nitrogen and also on the problems of climate and Urgenda. I am well aware that this is not entirely in line with the views of the Party for Animals, but I think that these are important steps in the right direction, which also have an eye for balance in politics and in society.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u251	First of all, Mr Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u252	My question in this debate was specifically about the decision on nitrogen such as the cabinet that defended last week in the House of Representatives and the direct consequence it intends to link to it for the draft budget for 2020, in particular the Infrastructure Fund and the MIRT Project Book. So it's actually a question of fact: is there a relationship between them? We think so, and I'm trying to clarify that. Is the Minister going to say anything about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u253	I really wanted to say what I just said in terms of finance. Furthermore, I would really like to ask the directors who are most appropriate for this to come up with solutions, in dialogue with both chambers, with regard to nitrogen. That's one. If this has financial consequences again in one of the three columns I have just outlined, I will, of course, inform Parliament about this at the appropriate moments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u254	I get that. Thank you. The question is now specifically about the space that was created last week, as it were in the national nitrogen budget, which should be used for construction projects. The question is which construction projects. Are we talking about housing? Are we talking about road construction? What is the relation MIRT Project Book and budget 2020?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u255	I shall refer Mr Vendrik to the colleagues in the cabinet, because that dossier is very moving. I'm involved in it several times a week, again this week, but I don't want to be careless there. It is precisely because of the enormous sensitivity of this dossier that I do not think it is wise to give a view on this issue which is absolutely correct, precisely because the dossier is so moving. 'Cause maybe it's not entirely correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u256	Mr. Vendrik, third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u257	I get that. Perhaps I can say at this point that I hope and expect the cabinet to inform colleagues on the other side in good time when the budget of the Infrastructure Fund is on the agenda. We would also like to know before we vote on this draft budget here in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u258	Let me agree with Mr Vendrik that I share the views of the Green Left Group, including those of the Minister for Infrastructure, in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u259	Then Mr. Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u260	I think it is particularly important for the Minister to speak very clearly on behalf of the cabinet on a dossier on which there are no taboos, that is, Minister Schouten, on behalf of the cabinet, about measures and about a dossier that is on the move, but can be so clear that the cabinet is not going to do what the Party wants, namely fewer animals. That is remarkable, because how does the Minister rhyme with "there are no taboos"? Can he explain what it's all about that at least there won't be fewer animals?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u261	I have listened with pleasure to the reflections given by Mr Koffeman and Mr Schalk on Noah, but I believe that this is, apart from all those who could sit in that boat, not what I have just argued. My experience is that the Party for Animals really has different views that are much more far-reaching specifically in the nitrogen dossier, but also in full width. In my opinion, Mr Koffeman often refers to it as 'the transition to plant society'. At least that's a term that resonates in my head from the time I was a member of this house. This is considerably more radical than what the cabinet is in favour of on a number of issues. I think that's just fair to say and to name here as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u262	I am not calling for a reduction in livestock farming to zero, but for a drastic reduction in the number of animals. When the PAS was introduced, as I have just said, we were the only party against and we said: this is not going to stand up in court. Your partymates said: well, we'll see about that. We now know what has come of this and that the country is locked. So maybe it's wise not to press in "we'll just keep going and otherwise we'll get the tractor." It is time for nitrogen reduction to be applied. The same applies to the biomass dossier. Today, in Winschoten, a biomass plant has been shut down that emits ten times as many harmful substances as was expected. At some point you'd have to learn from that, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u263	One constitutional and one substantive remark. All my party mates are equally dear to me, but I stand here as humble servant of the Crown. It is therefore not for me to defend any member of the party, other than that it is a predecessor in office. Secondly, on content. Minister Schouten said there are no taboos. It is looking in full width at measures that could contribute: in the short term, in the long term, what the cost of these measures is, what the political sensitivity is. It has repeatedly said the two words 'no taboos'. And they apply to the entire cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u264	Finally. Can I understand from the Minister that it could well be that a reduction in the number of animals is indeed part of this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u265	I really want to leave this with my colleague Schouten. She has repeated "no taboos" over and over again. I shall leave the content of the taboos and the appeal that Mr Koffeman wants to make in them for him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u266	You just did, so I'm glad you're taking it back with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u267	I am not quite sure whether Mr Koffeman and I have heard each other correctly. He's still pretending that that moment will come. I look forward to that. I'm back with Mr. Vendrik. He asked how to proceed when the ground is exhausted in 60 years and what that means for the next generation. I say it quite deliberately without a chest beater, but I think I can say that the cabinet has indeed made a step change in the area of climate, including in the category of Urgenda measures. It now looks in full width and depth at what is needed and possible with regard to nitrogen. I'm really less gloomy. I believe that the most concerned colleagues in the cabinet, for example in relation to the climate, have taken very great steps. Then I am back with Mr Wever, who asked about healthcare expenditure. He has obviously had an exchange of views with Mr De Grave, who has also asked me here to link healthcare expenditure with GDP. I very much agree with the VVD Group and Mr Wever that it is extremely important to ensure that care, which is of very high quality in the Netherlands, remains of very high quality. That's one. Two is that we make sure that, no matter what anyone deserves, there is access to that excellent system. That's a huge privilege. All you have to do is come to America and see how many people there are with rotting teeth in their mouths to figure out what the repercussions of that system are. And three: it must remain organizeable and affordable. It is quite right that the VVD should draw attention to this. It is also true that both ministers, and in particular the Minister for Medical Care, are trying to reduce these costs in relation to the main line agreements and a number of other matters, for example in the field of medicines. I would like to be inspired by the SER and the WRR myself and will therefore take this file back with enthusiasm with both concerned directors. Mr Wever also wants to reduce the regulatory burden in healthcare. We recognize the suggestion he made. In particular, it is about the bottlenecks in the electronic patient file, which has long had the special attention of this house and European regulation. They are addressed, so my observation, in the program Disorder is the concern of the ministry of VWS. The Minister recently informed Parliament about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u268	Thank you for the Minister's reply. I'm glad he's expressing that concern about the care too. I am very curious about the consultation with the WRR and the SER. What is the time-limit for this to take place and when can we get a feedback from it in this Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u269	I said earlier that this is happening very well and that it is not there immediately. I may be allowed to make a second assessment of when we think those reports are there. I talked to Mr Van Apeldoorn about child poverty and I made a commitment. I have also said to Mr Ester that it is quite right, in the broad but certainly in relation to children, that he should quote that. Maybe in addition to that, why is it complicated? There is no single definition of poverty. There are all kinds of different problems behind child poverty. The effects of municipal poverty policies are not always easy to see in the available figures. The impact of the economic situation is also very high. At the same time, and that is why I will also take it up with the Secretary of State, it is, of course, a tearing subject. To put it simply with a complicated word: the parents at least have an action perspective or usually have an action perspective. Kids don't have that. That's what makes it so tragic. Mrs Sent asked to make part-time work more attractive, a fair question. An ibo part-time work is currently being completed. It also addresses Mrs Vos's question. That ibo will be sent to the House of Representatives at the beginning of next year and I will make sure it ends up here as well. Mrs Sent and Mr Van Apeldoorn asked about the pay gap and the report about it. I have only seen the headline, but I can only say that it is a most curious and unacceptable message. How is it that in the 21st century, in 2019, you reward men and women for the same work in a different way? There's no way that's even close to acceptable. It is not primarily my responsibility, but I will draw attention to that within the Cabinet. It certainly has the interest of the minister of OCW, who has emancipation in her portfolio. It's crystal clear it's not acceptable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u270	A quick question. Perhaps the Minister could give a hint of the veil in which direction you might think or perhaps he would say that it is not on his property. In the Lower House is an initiative law in the making of various parties, including my party but also PvdA, GroenLinks and 50PLUS, which proposes to reverse the burden of proof for employers. In that case, workers must not show discrimination against women in terms of wage inequality, but employers must demonstrate that this is not the case. Isn't that a good idea according to the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u271	We now find ourselves in a very complicated constitutional figure. Normally, the House of Representatives comes up with an initiative bill and the cabinet, after discussion in the Council of Ministers, has to relate to that initiative. Politically, I totally understand. Maybe I'll go into it eagerly and then it'll be a very cozy ministerial council next Friday. However, it is not entirely correct to interrupt the Secretary of State or others, the SZW Secretary of State, or perhaps to mow the grass away from the feet of the Minister of State of OCW. By the way, my impression is that the subject is much wider with the attention of parties in both houses of the States-General. I do not know whether this applies to the initiative law, because I do not know it. I'm almost at the end of the third block. Mr Schalk asked about the police deployment. He's asking if it shouldn't just be paid for. That is a fundamental point, because police deployment is not for sale. It's a state responsibility. In the past, it has been examined whether the cost recovery is feasible and feasible. We have returned there several times. It's complicated. It is true that all kinds of events themselves incur additional costs for security. Mr Gerbrandy asked about the digital infrastructure. This is extremely well in order in the Netherlands. The Netherlands is very often very high in the lists of digital infrastructure. The national objective is that every citizen and every company should have access to the Internet by 2023 at a rate of at least 100 Mbps. That also means a lot for the municipalities outside the Randstad. Mr. Chairman. Which brings me to the fund, block four. Let me say a few introductory things about the fund, because I think that is helpful. In fact, it is in line with part of the reflection that came out this week, which is about the medium term. The view of the cabinet could actually be expressed as follows. The economy is doing pretty well now. Public finances are also doing pretty well. But if you look forward a little longer, say 2030 or beyond 2030, you're probably looking at a country that still has quite a lot of collective burdens, something that has to do with an ageing population. See also the report that came out this week. You look at a country that has to do with moderate economic growth, not compared to the rest of Europe, but compared to many other places in the world. And you're looking at a country that has to do with a rapidly changing economy and a rapidly changing society due to robotization, artificial intelligence and everything that has to do with, you might say, the economy of the future. No one knows how fast that comes, no one knows exactly when it will arrive and how big the impact is going to be, but it is, I think, real to assume that the work of the cashier, but also the work of the radiologist and the work of many others in society will change dramatically as a result of, among other things, artificial intelligence. If you add that whole cluster together, you have, in good Dutch, a very clear case for change. On the other hand, there's also a chance. A lot has already been said about low interest rates today. This low interest rate is a problem for us in pensions, in the discussion about the small saver. The small saver knows how to face very low returns of money that is in a savings account. But for me as Minister of Finance, it's also an opportunity. It's an opportunity because you can borrow very cheaply. When you link that palette to challenges, of course, the question arises as to whether you should not want to do more in terms of productivity, in terms of earning power, than you are doing right now. Then ask economists which types of subjects are particularly suitable for this, then one arrives fairly quickly with: innovation, R&D, knowledge development. Behind that last one, there's a lot of things to hide. It also has to do with education, of course. And they come with infrastructure. The cabinet therefore intends to bring forward an investment fund which focuses specifically on these issues and which also provides funds for them. That must be done in addition to the usual system. I would add that, of course, it listens very closely to how you shape that and what the governance of such a fund looks like. Why? Because it is taxpayers' money and you want coûte que coûte to spend the money wisely, and it actually benefits the subjects I have just mentioned. And it would not be the first time that, with all kinds of good intentions, such a fund would eventually become a fund for good intentions and a kind of solution to all sorts of fairly random problems. So I will not hide the fact that it is, of course, quite exciting for me as Minister of Finance in governance and in design. After all, I am the first to be responsible for the sensible spending of taxpayers' money that our citizens have earned. However, I think it is a very good idea, because we are certainly not overinvesting in the categories I have just mentioned, and because I really think that this palette of challenges, with the ageing population, with the low economic growth, with the collective burden that will also be very high in the future, really calls for new policies, at least in part. Where does that get us? This means that we have announced in the Millions Note not either, but that this fund is going to come. And it means that the Minister for Economic Affairs and I are currently busy shaping the fund, where governance obviously has a very strong place. In the Millions note, we also indicated that before the end of the first quarter of next year, i.e. from 2020, we will return to the States General with how we intend to implement this fund. So we will also have an answer to questions about governance, about the criteria that projects have to meet and about how we want to shape them. But I can say at this point that we will very clearly want to reconcile two things. On the one hand, you want to make sure that projects really meet those objectives that I just mentioned and actually contribute to earning capacity. This therefore requires a great deal of discipline, and that also means something for the level of detail at which it can be adjusted. That's one way. The other side is, of course, that in the end, as with everything else, the States-General has the last word, and that must also be done in a democracy. So that's what's gonna happen here. We will also look very strongly at what has worked abroad, what the experiences with the FES fund have been. Some of us here will recognize that. You can say, I think, that the FES fund has started well, but it has finally been used for all kinds of other things. We shall therefore come back to that, Mr President. And in order to avoid a great deal of disappointment in the interruptions, I would like to stress that I will not go into the following questions now. Which types of projects will it be exactly? How exactly is this governance going to look? How will we shape the budget law? As much as the temptation to clap out of the school about the exciting conversations I have with Mr Wiebes and experts, I am really going to wait to answer those questions until the first quarter of 2020. I'd like to do it all at once.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u272	I have two questions. I have asked the following question before, but you have not yet answered it. That'll fit into tonight's pattern. Can you explain to me why you want to make a lot of investments through the government, but do not want to spend the money on relief? Why can the government better select what the promising investment projects will be than the people themselves? I don't remember the Dutch government coming up with an Apple, a Google or such an enterprise. That fund has huge risks. Things like that often come from the private sector. So my first question is: why not reduce the burden and borrow money for a fund? And my second question is about foreign funds being looked at. That's what the Minister was talking about. What specific foreign funds does he have in mind as an example for that fund, so just say as an example for the Hoekstrafonds?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u273	I will say a few words about the Wiebesfonds, but first I will deal with the first question. I have just tried to include Mr Otten in what the cabinet is already doing in the area of burden relief. Around 6.5 billion has been earmarked for the coalition agreement. And about 2 billion more has been added in the last August decision-making process. That's one. Two. The misunderstanding should not arise that the cabinet sits on the seat of entrepreneurs. Last week, in the debate on Invest-NL, I noticed that Mr Otten's enthusiasm for Invest-NL could continue to grow. But this fund is really something else. This is about investments where you do not want to get a return in the financial sense of the word. No, at most you can see that this indirectly increases the economy, that it leads to more jobs and indirectly leads to tax revenues. These are things that are really primarily on the board of government, sometimes in conjunction with business. Think of investments in innovation and R&D, think of what happens, for example, at all kinds of Dutch universities, which are still largely publicly funded. Think also of investments in infrastructure. So I hope that I will be able to take away something from Mr Otten's concern. Why? How did I get to know Mr Otten in these debates? He is someone who wants to handle money wisely, who wants to look carefully at what is a consumer spending that you might want to avoid, but who does want to do what is needed. To be honest, I think this would fit very well in that logic. So I am also very looking forward to the further exchange of views with him on this subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u274	We have already talked about the collective burden burden. Now you're going to do more through the government. You withdraw even more money that does not end up in the burden relief scheme, but in that fund. I hear artificial intelligence, infrastructure, it doesn't have to yield any returns. What exactly is this fund going to do? Actually, it's becoming an ever-increasing mystery what the fund is going to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u275	That must then be based on a misunderstanding, because there is a clear passage in the Millions Note. I just tried to really add a few things to it. I would ask Mr Otten and also the Chamber for some clemency, because I do not think it is wise to pull pieces out of them, now to let the light shine on them, in anticipation of that crystal clear statement in the Millions Note. Firstly, it states that the cabinet, in the person of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy, will come up with what is called the growth letter before the end of this year. Secondly, before the end of the first quarter of 2020, the cabinet will set up this investment fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u276	Mr. Otten, a third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u277	Short, last question. You have not yet answered my question about the foreign comparison. Are we talking about a fund like Singapore, which makes all kinds of investments in companies, or like Norway? What kind of idea should we have with this fund? To be honest, I haven't gotten it from these answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u278	The glass is half empty every time Mr Otten gives me my answers. I will only take that personally. I'll try to be even more generous in the answer. The fund that we are going to shape is really different from what Norway and Singapore have. That is a classic sovereign wealth fund. But there has been a team from the Treasury Department in Singapore. In Washington, I also spoke with the Norwegian Minister about her experience with her fund, although that is different in terms of design. That is a fund in which you take assets and the return you get from those assets you then use to make all kinds of expenses. So that's a different plan. However, there are lessons to be learned from this, because Singapore and Norway have also wanted to organise something on the governance issue. On the one hand, you want democratic control, and on the other hand, you want to make sure that it does deal with these issues. Let's be honest. If you let it all be part of the regular budgetary system, I know one thing for sure: then it becomes a political division question. That's a really different question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u279	We await the precise plans for the investment fund. Then we will give our judgment. In any case, I understand that these are challenges for our economy and our society in the long term. That's also in the Millions Note. But we also have major social problems in the short term. I also drew attention to this in my speech. Then there are problems that, if we don't solve them, will have long-term consequences. For example, I talked about the teacher shortage and the 10 billion left over this year, while because of the teacher shortage classes are sent home or there are unauthorized people in the classroom. I'll be back on block one. I must say that I see a discrepancy with the Minister. On the one hand, with his philosophical reflections, he says that we are now living in a different reality and another world with structurally low interest rates. He himself cited the examples of Japan and compared them with other countries. From this he concludes that there is room that was not there before for such an investment fund. But there is no room for more structural investments in the public sector from the regular budget, whereas based on the same philosophical considerations, you could come to that conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u280	Then I'll be back to one of the answers. I said that the cabinet already has an expansionary budget. That is not my view, but the view of the planning agency. That is also the view of the Council of State. The cabinet will spend more money next year and the following year. From 2021 onwards, the weather is looking at a structural shortage. It's not very big, but it is. I respect that Mr Van Apeldoorn says that we should spend even more in the here and now. In part, we do. We will certainly do some extras in the area of teachers, nitrogen and undermining. But we can't do everything for everyone. So this fund is not going to be a solution for everything. It's going to make a very strong contribution. I would like to say this to the Chamber in all seriousness. Much longer, especially in this house, attention has been paid to the need to strengthen the foundations of the Dutch economy and to focus more on topics such as R&D, innovation, knowledge development and infrastructure. This has been mentioned very often by almost all the groups. Again, it's exciting. There's no guarantee that it's gonna work. But this is a very important attempt by Wiebes and me to give an answer. By the way, Mr Van Apeldoorn, I do not know whether I am seriously insulting him with this, as Mr Jetten has said: it would be nice if the fund could start projects in the relatively short term. "Short term" is not tomorrow, but is, if we make a lot of haste, perhaps all this cabinet period, although I immediately hurry not to promise it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u281	Mr Van Apeldoorn, a brief last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u282	I therefore note that we do not believe that the social needs that exist today are being addressed sufficiently. I still have a question. The Minister says that our budget is already expanding. I don't dispute that when you look at a particular system. The question is simply whether it would not be wise to make more investments from an economic and social point of view. That investment fund will also be pumping money into the economy and in that sense will also be stimulating. Then what is the fundamental difference?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u283	Mr Van Apeldoorn does this rhetorically handsome of course. He now leads me through a path strewn with thorns and thistles back to block 1. I just spent an hour and a half leaving that. I'd landed in block four. I'm gonna hold on to what I just said. I would like to quote the Prime Minister who is really right that even in a time when interest rates are low, debt must be repaid, so there is always a political thing like making choices in scarcity. That's the hard part, but also the beauty of our profession.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u284	I had asked the Minister if a negative interest rate would stimulate the economy. He has not yet answered that question. Maybe that's what's gonna happen. Do I understand now that the Minister's implicit answer to that question is: no, that does not stimulate the economy and that is why we have a fund to stimulate the economy from the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u285	No. What I wanted to say is that negative interest rates have all kinds of repercussions for the economy. We see how this makes the discussion with pension funds more difficult. We see how it makes it difficult to discuss very low returns for citizens with savings accounts. We see why we have a discussion with each other about what the cabinet, in the person of the Minister of Finance, should or should not do with regard to negative savings rates and the banks. I'll tell you more about it later. But here, with public finances, it's also an opportunity. You can see that just by looking at the numbers I mentioned, in which I compared the situation of Ruding with our own. If these interest charges were to be a few percentage points higher, then we would have had a very different conversation here with regard to the state budget. In that case, it would not be worth 4.5 billion to pay interest, but perhaps double that. That would replace other expenses. As far as long-term investment is concerned, there is therefore an opportunity to make use of this low interest rate. I think that with all kinds of ifs and buts and all kinds of mitigations that is worth more than investigating.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u286	I understand the Minister's answer, but I do understand that he actually confirms that negative interest rates are not enough to stimulate the economy and, given the negative interest rates, he is now taking advantage of that opportunity to set up an investment fund.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u287	Language is important here. This low interest rate fits in with a long-term and global trend. If Mr Van Strien cuts me a little further, at some point the words "ECB" and "guilty" will come out of the interrupting microphone. If so, I would say to him that the ECB's policy does indeed have some influence on interest rates, but that, if you look historically, there is a long-term trend in the world, in which interest rates in all kinds of countries are falling. This has partly to do with an ageing population, partly because of a changing economy, which is more about global knowledge than capital goods, as in the past. There is also an element in what economists simply cannot fully explain. But it's a reality we're dealing with. We don't know exactly how long it takes and we don't know exactly how big these fluctuations are. But it's not implausible that that low interest rate climate in a form really stays with us for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u288	Then I'm going to see Mr. Ester.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u289	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think, Mr. Secretary, through the chairman, we should also think about the future when things are very bad with the country. It's not just when you have a lot of resources, it's a challenge. I spoke in very positive terms about this fund as one of the few people in this house this morning. I also understand a little bit: you get that by putting an idea in a Millions note, without having to pay an amount and a plan. You're gonna have these kinds of discussions. It might have been better if it hadn't been done that way. But I also asked a question about that fund myself. I think it is important, once again, that we think about the future and that we do so structurally. The future of the economy is not self-evident, we really need to adjust, and that is what we experience every day. So I think that's actually an excellent plan. What I gave the minister and the cabinet is not only to involve established players, but also to involve the Dutch start-up world and social entrepreneurs, because there is a lot of knowledge, energy and insight there. Let's make the most of that. I would have liked to have an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u290	First of all, it will appeal to Mr Ester if I say that here too is the case: count your blessings, one by one. I have listened to many who were positive about the fund and then had questions about governance and how to proceed. Questions which I can very well imagine, by the way. I would only regret myself if a subject which had so much intrinsic support in the past in relation to specific sub-areas were politically biased and therefore did not have the opportunity to be a success. That would be a missed opportunity, not so much for me or for Mr Wiebes, but for the country. Because if you look at the long term of the country, you see that we really need to do more on those three topics. I have heard many openings in different degrees that were positive. I will not mention the groups, but I heard that from many. I would like to thank Mr Ester very much for his suggestion, which I will give to the Economic Affairs and Finance team to investigate explicitly. I think I have answered Mr Wever's question about the letter of growth from the Minister for Economic Affairs and the fund which is ours. I also think I said something in response to what Mr Wever and Mr Vendrik asked about investment priorities and collaboration, public and private. I cannot yet answer Mr Wever's question on the exact diet, given my introduction. Mr Van Kesteren asked about the possibility of the investment fund also promoting economic growth in a way that fits into the climate transition. That phrase in the Millions' Note is not without reason: this is very clearly designed within the Paris framework conditions. Mr Van Kesteren, whom I would also like to thank for his positive attitude, also wanted the guarantee that the fund will be used for investment and not for consumption. That's exactly the crux. It will not be difficult to make up for all kinds of consumer spending, however well-intentioned it may be. Many, also in this house, have of course scratched behind the ears what we could have done if we had dealt with the gas benefits in a different way. Then the comparison with Norway is often made. The situation is different, because Norway is less than half as big and I believe that the oil benefits there are more than four times as large as our gas benefits were. But I would like to underline very much what Mr Van Kesteren and others have said, namely that if you do this, you must spend that money in a sensible way. Mr. Chairman. Mr Backer asked about the European Fiscal Board, which I always consider to be an important ally. We will continue to attach importance to sound public finances, and we will also talk to the European Fiscal Board about how that fund fits into this. But I do want to do so during the period we are about to have and not anticipate the findings with which Wiebes and I come. Mr Vendrik asked for a response to the OECD report. That report, Beyond Growth, briefly states that we need to look beyond economic growth. It points to sustainability and highly experienced well-being. I would almost say that that sounds like an understanding of what Mr Vendrik had already said. There's a lot to say about it. At the heart of the cabinet is the objective that prosperity is a means of building a better society and that it is not the other way around. The economy is therefore not an end in itself. In all courtesy to Mr Vendrik, I would add that the pain of low economic growth is often the first to fall among the vulnerable. So you have an important debate about how economic growth and what growth is sustainable, but from the thought that you could also stop economic growth, you really have to ask yourself what repercussions that has, especially for those people who are very dear to us all and who are trying to become a quarter out of all power.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u291	I am not looking for the debate on growth right now. GroenLinks does not advocate zero growth, nor do we advocate maximum growth. We want to ignore that. There comes the broad concept of prosperity as a leading orientation. I do not hear the Minister say, when it comes to the agenda that belongs to the investment fund, that that is the case. The phrase in the Millions Note, to which he just referred, within the conditions of Paris? Surely it is not the case that we are going to contribute from that investment fund to the further exploration of oil in the North Sea? No, I don't think we will. I don't think we're all that unwise. It is not about the conditions of Paris, it is about the transition needed for Paris. The whole point of broad prosperity and the transitions that go with it is also that, if we do not, it is precisely the vulnerable, Henk and Ingrid, who pay the price here in the Netherlands and elsewhere in the world. My point remains: I am asking the Minister to respond to this, why I do not hear in his story that transition and broad prosperity should lead this agenda. Why don't I hear that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u292	Let me try to be clear about one more thing: one of the things that threatens the potential success of this fund; I am not saying that it automatically results from what Mr Vendrik says, and I certainly do not think that he is aiming to do so; it is that politicians from all kinds of houses are already trying to stretch that scope, to stretch it again and then to stretch it a little bit. Then it becomes a fund for everything, then it just becomes an extension of the budget by many tens of billions, of which we then disrespectfully say nice things. Then we're going to consume some of the money. That may be a political choice, but that is very clearly not what Minister Wiebes and I and the entire cabinet intend with this particular plan. This is really something else. So we'll also stick to a specific scope, where it's really about the topics I just mentioned. My expectation is that Mr Vendrik, who, in my opinion, already has a positive attitude towards this plan, will also see that this fits in with a broader transition.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u293	Mr. Vendrik, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u294	What is avenging here is that the Minister and I apparently see a perspective on what I am listening to in his words and vice versa. When I listen to the Minister's words, I think: well, we had that discussion about the FES in the 1990s. Exactly the same agenda: R&D, innovation, knowledge development, infrastructure. Exactly the same scope as then, with exactly the outcome the minister fears. My plea is that if you focus on the Sustainable Development Goals, on the transition, an agenda to which the Netherlands has committed itself, you also force a certain agenda, and that prevents it from being used for everything. If I bring up this history about the FES, does the Minister recognize it? Isn't that what we don't want together? Then where is he trying to prevent the repetition?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u295	By really learning from what happened to the FES and by ensuring that that governance is shaped in a different way. There is no guarantee of success. I'm very honest about that. It's always possible that it changes, no matter how well we decide with each other in the here and now what it's supposed to look like. If in 20 years' time a majority of the States-General decides to do it completely differently, then that is always possible. This is inherent in the democracy that is so dear to us all. However, it is good to highlight that the FES has become part of the normal budgetary system almost from the outset. The FES bridge was also created there. In terms of size, of course, it had a completely different format than what we are talking about now. We're talking about a very long horizon, really over the next 20 to 30 years. And we are also talking about many tens of billions. So it's really a whole different size. That is also necessary if you really want to do something about those areas I named.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u296	I would like to add my voice to Mr Vendrik's interruption, when I actually wanted to make another point. I'll take that bridge anyway, because I think the Minister and the Cabinet could have spared themselves some trouble by coming out with this idea at the time it had more hands and feet. That is also in line with what Mr Ester said. I think we need to shorten the discussion tonight, because it is much more useful to talk about a concrete cabinet proposal, its design and its governance, rather than doing so now. I would have given you a transitional term as a 'future package', but you did not want to accept it. Okay, then we'll continue with the fund, but then we'll have this discussion. Mr President, this was an observation and not a question. The second thing, which was really a question, is this. The issue of the European Fiscal Board has actually fallen into the wrong place. This may have been the result of all kinds of discussions, but it was not the fund that mattered to me. I was concerned about the sustainability of finances, two blocks back, and the recommendation of the European Fiscal Board how to do that in a more modern setting with more differentiation. Perhaps you can come back to that in your reply or in second term, if you cannot do so now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u297	I will only respond very briefly to Mr Backer's sigh. The information about the fund has appeared prematurely in the media. This has had an important impact on the discussion and, by the way, what the Cabinet could say about it at any time and what the Cabinet wanted to say about it in the Millions Note. Given the stage we had already reached then, at the same time I think it was wise to just share it. That also has something of the Dutch approach. The German approach is that you don't do anything until you've done it all and done it 20 times. The Dutch are sometimes a little more practical. In many of the discussions we have in Europe, the European Fiscal Board is truly an ally. After all, it stresses the importance of reform. It stresses the importance of sustainable public finances as part of a package related to the stability of the economies of countries. It also argues over and over again the importance of sustainable public finances in the long term. Interestingly, in the Netherlands, we calculate something like the sustainability deficit, but we do not do so at European level. We look at the 60%, we look at 3% and we look at the midterm objective. And then we look at the structural balance, but that varies so much that it is actually a measure that is practically not used. Locking up, Mr. Chairman. I am very positive about further exploring with the European Fiscal Board what is still possible, for example by passing on sustainability figures from countries, but there are many at the table who certainly do not feel that way. That is my cautious observation. Mr President, I am at the other block. I've done big pieces of that too. Let me start with a few additions to what I have already said about Europe and to the very positive attitude that the cabinet takes there, as far as I am concerned, but also to the concerns that there are about all kinds of specific subs on the European playing field and not least on my own portfolio. I think I have answered Mr Van Strien's question on the euro. Mr Backer and Mr Van Kesteren asked about the Multiannual Financial Framework. The cabinet's approach is twofold. The first part is that we think it is important that the next budget really takes care of money that citizens in the Netherlands and in all Member States have earned hard work. I understand that in the short term it seems attractive to think: let's do a little bit of coulant. But let us bear in mind that no one in the cabinet says that we should not be a net contributor anymore and that we are automatically in that leading group. If that meant that you were embracing the committee's concept that is now on the table and you were then going to turn it over to the state budget for a moment in seriousness, then you are talking about a mission of between 800 million and 1 billion on the VWS budget, i.e. SZW, a mission of many hundreds of millions of structuralally on the OCW budget and so on. Unless you're saying you're putting all that money in the balance. But I do not think that enthusiasm has been so great either. I really think it makes sense for people in Europe to say that the strongest shoulders bear the heavy burden. There is also no one in the cabinet who says: we want to get rid of that net contributor position. But the Netherlands is in the top two or three of countries that will suffer the consequences of the Brexit and loses with the Brexit strategically a hugely important partner. The Netherlands is going to suffer from the Brexit effect in the business cycle. To confront the Netherlands much more than Denmark, Sweden and Germany with a 60% increase in the budget, I do not think it is reasonable. I do not think that is reasonable from the Commission. I really think it makes sense for us to fight that with the nuances I put in. Then there's a second piece and that's really sidelined for me. That is also extremely important. My observation is that there are all very big problems coming towards the European Union. These are all kinds of problems that Member States cannot or can hardly handle on their own. This has to do with the climate, which has to do with border surveillance, which has to do with innovation. We were just talking about artificial intelligence. To put that in perspective, I believe that 90% of artificial intelligence expenditure is spent by the United States and China. Of that remaining 10%, a piece is being done by Europe. And of course a very small piece through the Netherlands. Innovation really is such a theme of the future. Possibly also defence, which is a very complicated subject politically. The question is whether the situation as it was before the current American government is coming back. Those are many words for my part to say that the cabinet believes that this European budget should really go into the 21st century and that we should spend our money on those things that are important for the future. This means a fundamental shift, away from cohesion to topics such as innovation, border control, climate and what else to think of there. I think it is perfectly right for the cabinet to say: we must and we want to go out with all kinds of allies, otherwise we will continue to do what we did. This means that we continue all kinds of investments that are regularly of questionable added value, often questioning corruption. Let me add a stone of shock to that. That has something to do with the budget, but I think you should link those things up. There are, of course, also Member States that simply ignore parts of the rule of law. The leverage of a country like the Netherlands, if you look at it machiavellis, is really just two things: the first is the budget and the second is Schengen. And if you're not willing to play that card, you get what you got. Mr. Chairman. We will continue this discussion with enthusiasm and, in my view, with reasonableness. It will not be easy, because there are very different views in the Union, but I really think it is important that we spend the money in a reasonable and sensible way and significantly modernise it. Mr Van Kesteren asked about the deposit guarantee scheme. Germany is now actually arriving at the position where the Netherlands was already sitting. That position is that if you properly shape that deposit guarantee scheme, it can be of great added value to reduce risks in the banking union. Germany really didn't want to do that at all. The Dutch cabinet has always had the same view as Klaas Knot, namely that you have to reduce the risks. And if you succeed, then it's a good idea to do it. What kind of playing field do you end up in, especially now that Germany is moving more towards the Dutch position? There is an increasingly large group of countries that says: let's talk about that. Then there are countries that say: that must be prudent, the risks must be reduced, we are not just going to expose our own banks and our own savers. Then there are other countries, not entirely coincidental countries with a lot of non-performance loans, with relatively weak banks and with relatively high public debt, which say that we have actually done enough to reduce risks, why do we not mutate risks and move faster to that banking union? I think that the latter is a very dangerous idea, because you are going to do things wrong because of all kinds of political wishes in the care. Then there is a huge risk that people will say in about ten years' time: why haven't they been a little firmer in the front, so that we now have a more robust system? Mr. Chairman. Then I move from the European Deposit Guarantee Scheme to the financial sector. Mr Backer mentioned a number of different things. He mentioned private debt, cash, diversity and capital buffers. Mrs Sent also asked me about this. Mr Backer is quite right, of course, that these private debts in the Netherlands are actually relatively high. They are better controlled on parts, but they are still quite high in the Netherlands and Denmark, even after our interventions in the mortgage domain. There's a lot to say about contact money. After the Scandinavian countries, the Netherlands is one of the countries where relatively much is paid with a pass. At the same time, I think it is wise that the currency should continue to exist. I find this for all kinds of reasons, which also have to do with stability and with the possibility of having a way out when it would be necessary and the digital system would not work temporarily. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the diversity of the banking landscape. One of the speakers referred to the Volksbank side-by-side. I have also discussed this extensively with the House of Representatives. All kinds of things in the banking landscape have improved considerably: in the area of buffers, in the area of bail-in; that is the package that we concluded in Europe in June 2018. All kinds of agreements have also been made on remuneration and activities. But the fact is that the diversity in the Dutch banking landscape is relatively limited. We have a few very large banks and relatively few smaller banks. That has all kinds of consequences. These are not only negative, because the Dutch banking landscape is very efficient. Nevertheless, the desire remains, also from the cabinet, to increase diversity. That brings me to the Volksbank, too. I have said a lot about this in the direction of the House of Representatives. There there is a very strong desire to look at the social embedding in the future of that bank. Mr. Chairman. Then move on to the negative savings rate. Mr Ester and Mr Van Strien asked for this. In my opinion, it is really the art of sailing between Scylla and Charybdis. On the one hand, the House of Representatives has also quite rightly pointed out the major disadvantages of negative interest rates, especially for people with ordinary savings accounts. So we are not talking about people or institutions that have more than a tonne, let alone more than a million. Of course, you want these people to keep using a bank account, because that is safer and more stable than when people say: you know what, that old sock doesn't cost money, so let me put the money in it. So I see very clearly the negative consequences of such a negative interest rate, which fortunately is not yet there for those small savers in the Netherlands. On the other hand, and I have also outlined this in the House of Representatives: it is quite a lot to intervene legally in what banks may and may not do in the area of interest rates. So I told the House of Representatives: please allow me to talk to the banks; hopefully this dialogue will give us an insight that negative interest rates have all kinds of negative repercussions for ordinary Dutch people. That conversation's going on. Last week I promised the House of Representatives that I would report to her at least before Christmas, but probably before the departure of Saint Nicholas from these parts of the world. I will ensure that Mr Van Strien, Mr Ester and, of course, the entire Chamber receive that note. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Kesteren asked about the checks on money laundering. That is a very topical issue. I have recently been to Italy to look at the Guardia di Finanza, a kind of merger of FIOD, customs and other investigative authorities, to see what powers there are. We're not yet at the beginning of a solution. The problem of money laundering in the Netherlands is huge: 13 billion was estimated this week. "Whitewashing" always sounds a little innocent, but it's just about money that organized crime has earned and then knows how to use it in the upper world. This corrupts society and corrupts the rule of law. Their approach is very important in the area of justice colleagues, but much sharper than five years ago we see that the banking sector has an important role to play there too. This means an obligation on the banks, but it also means that politics has a duty to help banks and to ensure that the blockades such as those that exist, for example, in the area of data exchange, are adapted. Let me give just one example for the sake of time. I think it's a toe-curdling example myself. At the moment when one bank is able to work out someone who is suspected of money laundering, but there is no other case of the Public Prosecutor, it is able to literally walk to the bank across the street to open an account there. Then the whole game starts from the beginning. That first bank must not inform the second bank, he must not inform the Netherlands Bank and he must not inform the police and the Justice Department. It is one example, but it does show how, at least in part, the banking sector and also society have to fight with one hand on their back with what is really an existential problem for this country.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u298	May I ask the Minister how far we are so that we can also let the Secretary of State speak later?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u299	He's grabbing next to me. In any case, he felt that there were strangely few questions asked to him. I'm almost done, Mr. Chairman. Of course, a number of questions have been asked about the retirement age. I think that's the last set of questions. Mr Esser asked whether the youngest generation of Dutch people should not be much more central in the pension debate. I think that all generations together should be at the centre. I therefore very much agree with Mr Ester that this is a matter of balance. Mr Wever asked whether a slower increase would not mean that the AOW age would have to be raised again. The reduction has not even entered into and the pension agreement is not even complete, so I would like to give Minister Koolmees a little more time, given what he is doing. Mr Van Strien asked whether I believe in a funded pension, in the light of low interest rates. Of course, we have said a lot about low interest rates. There is something of a stabilizer, because in the Netherlands we have both a funded system and a pay-as-you-go system through the first and second pillars. But Mr Van Strien is, of course, right. See also Mr Van Rooijen's remarks that that funded system does have its besognes at the moment. I should also like to refer to Mr Koolmees on this subject, because he has delivered a letter this afternoon. I think it is really sensible what the cabinet is doing on that point. It is also very important that pension arrangements such as those made by the cabinet and the polder should be finalized in the next six months. I will simply respond to Mr Van Rooijen's motion in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u300	Of course, I am aware that Minister Koolmees is the prime minister, but this affects so much the entire cabinet policy and 11 million Dutch people, especially the workers, the young people, that I would like to hear at least from the Minister what he thinks of the letter from the 60 prominent. They are actually asking for an expert committee to look at a combination of risk-free interest rates and the actual return. If he still says it's too far from his bed, I'm getting closer to the other bed, the CDA bed. A number of resolutions on pensions were adopted during the congress. Since the spirit of the 60 prominent people is around in these motions, my question to the Minister is what he thinks of the resolutions adopted to look not only at risk-free interest rates, but also at the actual rate of return.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u301	I'll start with the point of the CDA congresses. Let me then discuss this with Mr Van Rooijen when he and I meet again at a CDA conference. I haven't seen him there in a while, but that doesn't mean he couldn't even come again. That's a good habit he had for a long time. Then there is his question about the letter and what else to say about it. I really think that is a matter for Minister Koolmees, but can I say the following to Mr Van Rooijen? Minister Koolmees is now proposing to buy a year's time. I think that's really wise. Mr Van Rooijen asks to make it two years straight away. Taking into account his experience and his age, that is a bit premature.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u302	That's almost a rutian answer, because that wasn't my question. You said earlier that you would come back to my motion in the second term, but you came back to that in the first period, for which, by the way, thanks. My question was: what does the Minister think of the letter from the prominent people asking for an expert committee to investigate not only risk-free interest rates, but also the actual return? The rule of Borgdorff is: contribution times return is pension. Even four times the return is retirement. Can the Minister give some thought to the ideas of that prominent letter? I've tried to extract that answer from the Prime Minister a few times. He said, "I read that letter lightly different," and I said again, "I can read it to you; that's what it really says. He then said again: I do not read that, so I am against that committee. I think this Minister is doing this a little bit more correctly and more openly, but I still have no answer. What do you think of an expert committee that is not investigating that, but whether, in addition to risk-free interest rates, part of the actual return could or should be taken into account?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u303	Let me start with that alleged Ruttian answer. I will tell the Prime Minister at the Ministerial Council next Friday that I received a compliment from Mr Van Rooijen. Then about the letter. I think it is really up to Minister Koolmees to respond to that. That letter is really about the heart of his policy. Moreover, he has today announced that he considers a year's delay to be prudent. Mr Van Rooijen wants not one year, but two years ahead, and he wants to do so. I often appreciate the characteristic impatience of Mr Van Rooijen, but I would say that peace in the documents, as Minister Opstelten has always mentioned, is also important here. Most members of your Chamber haven't even read that letter yet. Let us just let Minister Koolmees continue his dialogue with the field.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u304	Mr. Van Rooijen, the third interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u305	Finally, Mr President. Let me take up the gauntlet in that I would kindly ask the Minister not only to pass on compliments to the Council of Ministers on whether or not Ruttian comments, but also to bring to his colleague Koolmees' attention the letter of the 60 prominent people. I would ask you to discuss this with him in depth, so that we can hear from Koolmees later on what that discussion of yours has brought with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u306	Let me get this straight. I will tell Mr Koolmees that Mr Van Rooijen has asked me to bring the letter to his attention again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u307	Please continue your speech. Mr. Van Rooijen, these were three interruptions on one subject.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u308	Mr President, it is almost unbelievable, but I thought I had come to the end of my first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u309	Then I would like to thank you and give the floor to the Secretary of State... Oh, no, Mr Vendrik has another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u310	I asked about export credit insurance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u311	It would also be a pity if there were nothing left in the second term. Or, no, the Secretary of State will go into that in his first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u312	I shall now give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u313	Thank you, Mr President. Indeed, I have been eager for a while, but at the same time I have listened with great interest to the various speeches and debates. It was a pleasure for me to be standing here today. Well, so far I've been here mostly, but now it's getting a bit standing. I thank Members for their questions. I congratulate Mr Vendrik, of course, on his passionate and substantive maiden speech. It is true that again this year all kinds of tax intentions have been incorporated into tax laws and policies. When it comes to the laws, of course, we have the Tax Plan. That was offered on Prince's Day. There is another debate on this. I think that many of the issues that we may touch now will come back a little more in that debate. I think it is a good thing that I should at least give a brief answer to a number of questions. I also had some introductions to the different cubes. Given the time, I think I'll skip it or keep it very short. If I fail someone somewhere or if someone still misses a reflection or reflection, then I'll be able to tell myself if I have to venture to do so. The cubes I'm going to deal with are actually about parts of my policy pillars. The first block is about the location climate. Normally, this includes tackling tax avoidance and evasion, but there were no questions about that today. The second block deals with lower labour costs. That's for the citizen. Then there's a block about feasibility. That is also an important part. Finally, there is a very small block other, for the subjects that I didn't know how to ride anywhere. Mr. Chairman. I'll start with the block on the location climate. It should be clear that this cabinet also considers it important that the Netherlands be a country where real economic activities need to be located, where people want to work, where companies want to settle, where investments are made, in short, where prosperity can grow. The cabinet believes that the Netherlands should remain such a country. At the same time, of course, we have a rather firm plan to make it less easy for all companies who do not want to establish themselves with a real presence, but with a paper presence in our country. Let me put it this way. In the end, I think that an important key element of the locational environment is that we continue to look for basic broadening and at the same time tariff reductions. That's what you see in the Tax Plan. We postpone the tariff reduction in the Vpb for a year, but in 2021 the rate will go down from 25% to 21.7%. That was 20.5% in previous plans, so compared to the previous Tax Plan we raise that a little bit. Then the question is what we're about to come up with. If you're at 21.7%, with a broad base, you're about on the European average. That is also a rate that we feel comfortable with. By the way, I would like to say that the reduction in the rate for small profits, below 200,000, is going ahead. This year goes to 16.5% and in 2021 to 15%, which is a percentage point lower than we had previously proposed. There were two more precise questions about this from Mr Wever and Mr Van Apeldoorn, whom I can almost see coming forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u314	Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u315	No, that'll come later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u316	I think he wanted to ask why the cabinet stayed with the intention to lower the Vpb and if I thought that was a good idea. Mr Wever asked whether the absence of the reduction of the Vpb was a one-off. Let me begin by answering Mr Van Apeldoorn. Actually, I said that briefly. Yes, I think it is important that the Netherlands maintains an attractive locational climate. This also includes a rate that is competitively suitable for us. This does not mean that the reduction in the VAT rates that we are proposing does not go hand in hand with other adjustments, because, on balance, we have increased the burden on business by applying the principle of broadening in the GDP. So the answer to his question as to whether I still think that is a good intention is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u317	Yeah, that's what I was afraid of. We will come back to the Tax Plan, but at the same time this question to the Secretary of State. We are not convinced that it is necessary or desirable to reduce the high Vpb rate now. We do not believe it is necessary for the location climate and we believe it is a gift to large companies. But if you go along with the government's reasoning that this would be good, that the rate could be lower, how does the Secretary of State look at the fact that the effective pressure for large companies in particular is much lower than the nominal VPB rate? Recently, a report was published in Het Financieele Dagblad that in the last ten years the effective tax burden on large companies has fallen by a quarter and is around 17%. We know that this is much lower for some large companies: around 10%. In the case of Shell, it was even 0%, but now something is being done about it. My question is what is being done in width by this cabinet. If you find that effective tax burden is so low, why would you reduce the VPB rate even further, even if you follow the reasoning that this is good for the locational climate, because we are already lower?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u318	Mr Van Apeldoorn also knows that you are talking about the effective tax burden on base and rate. I tried to explain that although we are reducing the rate, we are broadening the base. In fact, if you take measures that increase the burden on business, that is by definition an increase in the effective pressure, assuming that you would keep the same number of companies, but that is equally academic. You can't just say that we're talking about the nominal rate and so we need the effective pressure down. The second question is more generally whether this effective pressure is lower than the nominal pressure. The answer is, by definition, yes. You must have a very special tax system if you are to have an outcome in which the effective pressure is higher than the nominal pressure. Then you would have base broadeners above 100% base, so that's a system you don't see anywhere. The question then arises as to whether there is one figure for the effective pressure that applies to the whole country. The answer to that is no, we have discussed this with each other before. That depends on whether or not you take losses, over a longer or a short period of time, or you can take foreign losses. For this reason, there are often long and academicly interesting discussions about effective tax burden, but these are less relevant than Mr Van Apeldoorn now suggests.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u319	I also understand that the effective pressure is lower and not higher than nominal, but I asked the Secretary of State, through the President, for the fact that this effective pressure has fallen by a quarter over the last ten years. Then my question is simply whether the Secretary of State thinks that is a problem. Or is he saying he doesn't care about that as Secretary of State for Finance?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u320	My point is more to the front. I don't know if I agree that effective pressure has dropped a quarter. Again, that depends on whether or not you took losses, or took your foreign losses, over what period; if you're talking about ten years, what your starting year and what your end year is. In all honesty, that doesn't mean much to me. I find, on balance, and that is the agenda we have, when it comes to tax competition, that there must be a fair distribution between large and small companies and companies that operate internationally or nationally, as well as a fair distribution between citizens and businesses. Eventually, you're gonna have to keep an eye on that. I get that point. Usually, there will be a call for effective taxation. Then I'm gonna tell you to be careful, because it's not that simple. We can send with nominal rates and we will.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u321	Mr. Van Apeldoorn, the third?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u322	Finally. The Secretary of State says: directing effective tax burdens is difficult. At the same time he says that Mr Van Apeldoorn also knows that it is not only about nominal rates but also about the basis and that it is being widened. May I deduce from this that the Secretary of State is still promising that we can expect that effective pressure to rise in his plans? We are going to test that critically and we will come back to the Tax Plan. Otherwise, the previous story about this broadening of the basis is not correct. So you're gonna send it to the effective pressure. Or am I wrong about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u323	No, you can see that very well, that's exactly what I'm saying. Only you do not send on effective pressure but on basis and on rate. That's what we do. We lower the rate but we broaden the base. That can turn out different per company per year. In the Millions Note, we also intend to adapt the liquidation loss scheme. At a company that makes a lot of use of it, you will see that the effective pressure is rising rapidly. But in companies that did not suffer from it or could not use it, it will not do so much for their effective pressure. Mr Wever asked if it was a one-time deal with the Vpb reduction. That's for a year now. Last year, however, we had a number of intentions in terms of broadening the base and reducing the rate. He also asked about box 2, if I'm right. We have always said that there must be a global balance, so that it does not matter in what form you are an entrepreneur, as an ib entrepreneur or as a dga. We are certainly monitoring this, including the measures we have now taken. Then pay particular attention to the profits below 2 tonnes. That's an important part for the dga's. Then you see that the tax burden on dgas with small profits, below 2 tonnes, is still well below that of the Ib entrepreneur. This also applies to a dga with a profit above 2 tonnes; it also remains above that of the Ib entrepreneur. All in all, we believe that there is still a global balance. Mr Wever also made a fair point about other pricing, perhaps not in the Vpb, but for example the CO tax. He said it was a good thing that we are doing this, but beware, if you have a national tax that other countries do not have, that can also affect the level playing field in Europe. He's absolutely right about that. That is one of the calls we are making in Europe. We do want a CO tax for industry. We believe that this pollution also has a price that must be paid. But we also understand that you will have a problem if we are far more ambitious there than the countries around us. One of the things that made me quite happy, although we do not yet know about the ins and outs, is that the Commission has said that we may need to introduce a Carbon Border Adjustment system. Then it is said: Suppose you produce steel in Europe, neatly according to all kinds of standards, so with relatively little CO emissions, while Chinese steel or steel from America has much more CO emissions and is probably cheaper to produce. If you try to produce something like this in Europe, you'll see that the most inferior product, with a lot of CO emissions, probably wins the market, and that's exactly what you don't want. Could you not think of a system to compensate for this at the borders of Europe, so that you do not have production facilities just outside Europe, which ultimately does not help the environment? And that's kind of an interesting thought. So we say all the time that we are positively curious, but that there are some sides to what we want to look at. After all, if you levy taxes at a border of a zone, you obviously have all kinds of WTO regulations that you have to pay attention to. Considering the trade war, I'd like you to take a good look at how it's done. The idea that you are trying to do something about the CO in a European context is a good one and is in line with what Mr Wever said about this. I come to my second block on the burden on citizens, about which several questions have been asked. Here again I will just skip the general introduction and quickly pass on to the questions of Mr Schalk, Mr Wever and Mr Ester. They all just asked in slightly different terms what steps the cabinet will eventually take to reduce marginal pressure. That's what it came down to. I understand that very well, because the marginal pressure is something we have talked about a lot in the past. This marginal pressure is not the same for every person with the same income, because everyone has a different life and therefore the marginal pressure is again different. At the point cloud of marginal printing you can see that once in a while, even though you work with 95%-percentages, you really get to a very high percentage. I believe that Mr Otten had even measured a percentage of 127 in very specific cases. That's right. It is true that in certain cases, as your income rises, you can experience a very high, even idioticly high tax burden. This is because of the system we have, which often provides benefits, benefits and income support to the people at the bottom. We do that for a good reason, because they need it. But somewhere you see that wears off. And once it starts to decrease, marginal pressure increases for those groups that just don't belong. We have tried to ease the marginal pressure with the use of the labour cut and the reduction of the hard income limit in the rent surcharge. We've moved a little bit back and forth in the income building. It's always hard to solve completely. You can, but then you have to stop providing income support, for example, if we don't want to go ahead with it, or you have to continue with income support, so that the marginal pressure occurs a little further up in the income building. There are also disadvantages, because then it ends up with the middle incomes. Apart from that, it's very precious. I understand that academically it's not that different from what I'm saying, but it doesn't feel right, of course. Making an extra euro and then having to pay more taxes than you deserve is simply not explainable. I'll just say that people often feel the real average pressure. There are very few people who wonder what they have left when they work an extra half an hour, but they do see at the end of the year what it has broken up with. They've started making more money, and they can't see how much money they're gonna get out of it. So I actually agree with those who said that we are at the edges of the possibilities of still sending in. However, we do not want to settle for that. That is why we wanted to include this as an important spearhead in the tax building blocks, i.e. in the investigation of the possibility of redesigning the tax system. We are doing so with a view to a new cabinet formation, because not everything will succeed. I have already said in the House of Representatives that if the building blocks come out in the spring, we will take out elements that we think: fuck, that is actually a really good idea. Then we will not fail to get to work on that. In these building blocks, it is very clearly considered whether the marginal pressure can be adjusted if you change the structure and structure. That is, in my view, a legitimate quest which I will probably follow with great interest, just like Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u324	I have a very short question. The minute you drop those surcharges and the like, you get that upward pressure back, the Secretary of State says. I get that. The Secretary of State has sent us a state. I asked for that last year, so I thank him for having it now. Anyway, that state shows that at all levels, from €22,000 to €32,000, it is 80% anyway. So that very strange peak of 161% last year has been fished out, but it is still 80% everywhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u325	Mr Schalk is right. That's still really high. It is also precisely in that area of income that you switch from benefits and income support to work. Again, I see the problem. We have also done a lot about it, if not everything, to see how we could get it down a little bit, but the low-hanging fruit, so to speak, is really gone. So if we want to go further, we need to be prepared to make real choices in the way we set up the system. This is typically something that we should pay attention to in the building blocks. So it is a valid point. I'm afraid I don't have a solution for that right now, but hopefully the building blocks will provide us with leads. Mr Ester was actually talking about the limits to the effectiveness of instruments such as labour rebates and the general tax reduction. When it comes to promoting participation in the labour market, I have to point out, for a small correction, that the tax rebate is not intended to promote participation in the labour market, but is actually just income support for pensioners and beneficiaries. Work discount does have that purpose. If you measure it according to the models, that is a very effective instrument. I see Mr Ester shaking no and I also feel that the element of surprise is out of that. Therefore, I would also like to refer to the building blocks. Maybe there's more to it than just a job discount to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u326	I wanted to change the two-earning perspective because of the low effectiveness of that labour discount at the moment. It has become a very blunt fiscal instrument. Its original intention was to promote participation in the labour market. That worked very well in the end on the left or right, but now at the end of his tax Latin, when there is a lot of money in it, many billions. I don't have to explain that to you. In view of the original perspective of promoting employment rates, is this reduction not beyond its fiscal period?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u327	I don't think so yet, so I'm a little less negative about the effectiveness of the instrument. It still matters a lot when you make the step from working to not working. We were just talking about you seeing a very low pressure when you suddenly get that job discount. So it's actually really nice to go to work. So the incentive is still there. Abolishing it, which is the suggestion if the instrument really turns out to be at the end of its fiscal Latin, can, of course, have enormous purchasing power effects, especially on workers, while one of the pillars of government policy is that workers must feel it and progress it. I understand that Mr Ester says that you can ask yourself whether that is the only thing or whether you should do something else, but from stopping because it would be at the end of his fiscal Latin, I am not in favour.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u328	I see that a little differently. Could I ask the Secretary of State if, before we discuss the Tax Plan, we could get a short note, precisely from this perspective, on how useful this reduction is still based on scientific research and on the philosophy of promoting participation in the labour market? I understand that we can have other reasons for this, but this is about the intention we had when we started using this fiscal instrument.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u329	I think there's a CPB investigation into its effectiveness, but I'll check it out. I will also see whether we can send that to your Chamber and whether we can say something about it ourselves. That helps, so I'll try.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u330	It's very nice that the Secretary of State wants you to. I am very curious if he is also willing to go into the latest insights of Esther Duflo and Abhijit Banerjee that financial incentives are only limited in effectiveness.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u331	In itself, I find that a very interesting question. As I have said, I think it is right to say something about the reduction in working hours for the Tax Plan. To give a lot of consideration about financial incentives and taxation seems to me in all honesty to be wonderful, but perhaps we can do that in the fiscal building blocks. Then we can think about whether all these precise measures will help. It seems to me that it is difficult to give that question for the treatment of the Tax Plan the depth it deserves.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u332	I understand that, so as far as I'm concerned, the Tax Plan doesn't have to. Can the Secretary of State tie another deadline to it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u333	I believe that the question of how taxation works, including incentives, belongs in the building blocks of the system. I will pass on this wish to the people who are working on it. I'm not; it's an official exercise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u334	Mrs. Sent, the third.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u335	Yeah, the third and last. When will we be informed about progress?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u336	I think that's in the first quarter of next year, so pretty soon. Mr. Chairman. I come to the gap between one and two earners, which we have talked about before. I believe that we have already had discussions about this in two previous tax plans. We've done an extra investigation. We have also had a reasonable exchange of arguments. You want to have some kind of equality on the one hand, so it doesn't matter what kind of family you have. At the same time, as a result of the policies of most previous Cabinets, participation in the labour market and economic independence are encouraged. Mrs Sent might see some sort of Maria tax in that. We know the least-deserving partner is still the woman after all. We also know that if economic independence has not been achieved by work before, when such a family breaks up, it is often the one with the lowest income who has the most problems. It is therefore really an objective to levy taxation at an individual level. As long as we have a progressive tax system, it can only be that the pressure on a single earner is higher. We've had that discussion. We did consider it important that a earner, like other groups, could benefit from cabinet policy. We did our best to do that, as Schalk also knows. One- and two-earners are doing quite well, looking at the figures of purchasing power development, for example, better than single people. But I also know that there is still a desire to look even harder for measures that can further reduce the difference. We have taken a number of steps in that direction. I am sure Mr Schalk appreciates that, but I also know that he would not mind if we could think of more. I come to another point, which I had less sense of and which I come all the way to Mr Schalk's area, namely the Joseph tax. I just wanted to mention it anyway. We've had several biblical figures along in recent years. Noah was also mentioned today. In an earlier life I was often around Mount Ararat, so I have often been able to see and listen to the story there. Mr Schalk referred with his text on Joseph to Genesis 41, if I have written it correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u337	47.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u338	So you see, I have to watch what I'm getting into. In any case, I understood that Joseph ordered the Pharaoh to bear 20% of the proceeds of his country. This 20% could be used in the lean years, so no famine would have to occur at the time it was against. If his suggestion was to introduce a Jozef tax into the Netherlands, there are actually two options. The first would be on top of the already existing one, but I do not think this was his intention. Going all the way back to 20% seems a little low to me. But I get what he's saying: you want to have some kind of stable system in taxes that can work countercyclically, so you can divide it fairly in good and bad times. That's important, too. When I was just trying to find out exactly what that was like on the internet, I also found the Tenth Penny of Alva. In Joseph's time, longer ago, it was still about 20%, but in the 16th century Alva had introduced it exactly 450 years ago. I'll mention the Tenth Penny first. That's the VAT, a tax of 10%. Last year we went from 6% to 9%. Then people warned me: beware, another 1% and you will have a popular uprising. Luckily, I didn't get over it. You also had the Twente Penning. That was a 5% transfer tax. That too is not so far away from the reality in which we are now. There was also a Hundredth Penny for power, a capital tax of 1%. If we flatten everything and look at the box 3 tax, which, of course, you should never call a capital charge because it is a capital return charge, we see a kind of constant in 450 years when it comes to the size of the tax. I've worked out a little bit now, but I wanted to tell you that, because I thought it was funny to notice that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u339	One small comment: we had no income tax at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u340	Following on from Van Strien's remark: yes, but that means that if you come to a flat rate now, a lot of the problems that are now to be found in the building blocks of the tax building will be solved. I'm glad the Secretary of State looked up exactly that it was about 20%. Of course, that's very low. Most people in this room pay at least 52%. Some have called it a tombola today, but even if you would stop with all those surcharges, the problem also arises when the surcharges are reduced. That's what we've been talking about. If you went to a social flat tax without all those fees, you'd get a much fairer and flatter system, which, for example, makes you lose the problem of the single-earners.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u341	That's right. I do not think I would be in favour of a very low flat tax, because it has other income effects, but Mr Schalk's last point is justified. When you no longer have progression, the difference between one and two earners as such decreases. So he's right about that. Mr. Chairman. Let me use the bridge of the Hundredth Penny to go to the box 3 questions. For all clarity: a change is not part of this Tax Plan or of what we are doing now. At the same time, the current system is part of the Tax Plan. So I understand that there are some questions about it, if only because we have put forward a kind of policy idea to do something for the saver, not only the small saver, but also other savers. In the current system of box 3, the saver who has a very low return on his savings account feels that there is some kind of inequality, because he is taxed for it. I therefore respond to Mr Frentrop, who asked whether, for example, you should not use a flat-rate return in the capital yield levy that you also ask for pension funds. So there are other questions. In my opinion, the unfairness of the current box 3 system is not in the flat-rate return forecast, because that is 0.09% for savings next year. That is the savings rate, the interest rate covered by the deposit guarantee scheme, from 1 July to 1 year ago. That is, in fact, quite in line with the current situation. The same applies to investments. There a longer horizon has been taken, with an asset mix. We can find anything on that, but that's a 15-year average you would have on an investment. A flat-rate return of just over 5% has been devised for this purpose. What I think people have difficulty with is that we very quickly assume that if you had more than x euro in money, you would have invested it. I understand that, too. That is why this proposal has been made. There are people who deliberately choose to keep it in a savings account, but they are struck as if they have invested a large part of it. That's the element I said I got it. It feels unfair and we want to change that. If Mr Frentrop so wishes: adjusting the flat-rate part of the return is, I think, not good. I think we should try to adjust the flat-rate ratios. That is exactly what we have identified in our policy proposals from the Millions Note.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u342	I do not think that the Secretary of State really removes the feeling of injustice that lives on the part of people who think they should pay taxes on money they have already paid taxes on. That's because the Secretary of State is trying to do it budget-neutral. I think you should be principled. We have all argued about what kind of securities have a falling interest rate for pension funds. Maybe the government can borrow more, but that also means that the risk-free return that ordinary investors achieve is falling. This means that the government receives less money from the capital return levy. I think we have to admit that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u343	In the system that Mr Frentrop uses, we would have less revenue. In the system we have proposed, we are actually saying that we want to distinguish between money that you have in investments or that you keep in a savings account. And yes, there will be people who say: I don't want to pay any capital tax anyway, because I've already paid income tax once. Okay, that's possible, but I think it's wise that we should do something with a capital efficiency levy or a capital charge. That's why I think a box 3 charge is in order. At the moment when someone has proven to have saved €100,000 or €50,000 for his old age or whatever, but he gets hit like he invested with it when he hasn't, we get much back that people feel that this is actually weird. In fact, people think they're still paying 4% on their savings. It's not anymore. I think we need to change the flat-rate ratio, precisely because there are questions about that. Mr Wever and Mr Van Kesteren asked whether we could do something in the current system to meet the saver. But that's exactly the problem. In the current system, you cannot distinguish between a saver and an investor. You can offer a reduction for the total and refund money, but you cannot distinguish between a saver and an investor. That is exactly what we want to do in box 3 in the new system. So you can lighten the load. That can always be done, but it costs money: it has to be paid for. On the contrary, I think that we are taking the saver too hard at the moment. I have a little less of that with the investor. The question is, how can that be achieved in my system? This is because, for example, there are a lot of people at the moment who borrow a lot of money and have a lot of money. That combination is crossed out against each other in box 3. The flat-rate return for investments and loans is considered to be the same. That too is not exactly the way it is anymore. Here too, we have a lump sum in the new system for loans, savings and investments. In so doing, we are in line as much as possible with the average actually achieved return. We think that means we have a more reasonable system. This is therefore beneficial for the saver and less beneficial for people who borrow a lot to have a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u344	I briefly referred to this this afternoon. There is now an arrangement whereby two thirds of the amount of €71,650 is covered by the low rate of 0.13%. I suggested this afternoon to do so, if necessary, over the whole amount, so that the small saver will be charged up to 71,000 at the rate of only 0,13% and not two thirds of the 70,000. Is that conceivable and also feasible in the short term?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u345	I would point out that this applies to an investor, because it is a flat-rate return. The point is, it doesn't matter if you save or invest. It sounds as if this is nice for the saver, but "rephrased" asks you what Mr Van Kesteren also asked, but in a different way. You are asking: can we not do something to make these people pay less tax? That costs money, as I think all the gentlemen who asked for it know. We therefore propose not to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u346	I'll rephrase it. I will leave out the word'spare' and say to Mr Van Kesteren: the rate of 0.13% could apply not to two thirds but to the whole amount of 71 000. I think Van Kesteren and I think we should get cover for that. As far as we are concerned, therefore, we would like to ensure this in the Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u347	It is always good to hear that if there are plans, there is also cover for them. Mr Van Rooijen knows how pleased we are. Mr Wever had a question about the adjustment of the system, and also Mr Van Kesteren. They asked if we could go any faster. That's actually what's behind it. I have already talked about this in the House of Representatives for a while, despite the fact that the plans have still not been made. That is one of the main reasons why it cannot be done faster: there is no legislative proposal yet. There are still a lot of questions. What does it mean, for example, if someone doesn't invest, but has a second cabin for a student child? What are the income effects of this? What about the exemption in box 3? What about the lease? There are still a lot of questions. We have said that these questions are justified. We need to find an answer to that. As soon as we have something of an idea, we come up with a bill. Then we can answer all the questions. Hopefully that goes neatly through the Lower House and then perhaps also neatly through the Upper Chamber. None of that's settled in a week or two, I know. In addition, there is always an implementation effect. That is recorded in a so-called parameter letter. This is certainly true in the case of system changes, and this would be the case here. The parameters indicate that, if you want to properly adjust a change in the system, you need to test it, including with other suppliers. You also need bank details, etc. I shall not go into the preliminary and final attacks. They're also complicated, but they're possible. In short, if we now have a plan and we have to transpose it into legislation and implementation, the fastest possible timetable is 1 January 2022. I would very much like us to be able to do that at once tomorrow, with magic wands, but that really requires a legislative discussion and implementation. I said earlier in your room that I do not take execution tests with a grain of salt. I take it very seriously. If they indicate that we need time to implement something, then I'll take that time and ask. I think that was my second block. Then I come to my third block, about the feasibility. That's actually the bridge I was trying to make. I cannot stress enough, as I have done recently in a committee of your Chamber, that proper implementation of taxation, of surcharges and of customs is incredibly important. That is because performers are often the first sight for the Dutch citizen. They must also ensure that policies we develop are feasible, that people understand and that the service knows what it is capable of. In the past we often did execution tests, but we did not yet take integral execution tests. We'll hold onto that from now on. That's what this means. If you make an adjustment in a chain or a means, such as VAT, it can be feasible in itself. But if you know that in that same year you are already doing four or five other VAT adjustments, you can say: this is technically possible, but from the chain and the integral execution test it is not possible this year but only next year. I think that's important, because we've seen in the past that something might be technically feasible, but you're still going to miss out if you do too much at the same time. One of the reasons why the Tax Administration stands for it as it stands is that we have said too long and too often: well, this can be done; let's do it. The policy went on and on, while the implementation was a little too much behind it. I've used the words spit and strings. They may not be so parliamentary, but that is the bottom line. We always knew how to make it just hold. If you look back now, you will see that we have done so for too long and that the building at the Tax Office, including ICT, has not been built under architecture. I mentioned the example of a Belgian city centre. It may be made up of all houses in itself, but if you look at them from a distance, you think: boy, who exactly invented this? So this is what we're really doing. This concerns ICT, service adjustments and feasibility. There is, of course, another question, in connection with the Donner Committee and the surcharges. Mr Vendrik asked for this, among other things. Actually, he had two main questions. One is how this could have gone so wrong and the other is why it could have gone on for so long. I think I will discuss this in detail with the House of Representatives. As far as I am concerned, the reflections have not yet been completed. I could talk about this for hours now, but I think the essence of the answer to the question of how it could have gone so wrong is institutional bias and zero tolerance. There was a very efficient implementation practice when it comes to the surcharges, with I think less than 5,000 men and now more than 7 million increases for billions and billions. We've talked about that before. That just didn't go well. As you know, I have given my opinion on this. The question as to how it could have lasted for so long: on the one hand, the same bias of the department or institute is at the root of this. We need to tackle fraud. We look at this and it will unfortunately take a long time to recognise fraud and recognise it if you are wrong, and then also to change it. This was not only due to the service, but also to case law. Of course, the service has been confirmed for a long time in the way it works. This can also be seen in detail in the interim opinion of the Donner Committee. In case law and case law, it is said for quite a long time that what the service does is in accordance with laws and regulations. I have already responded to the Donner Committee and I am going to discuss this with the House of Representatives again next week or in the following week. I'm preparing that now. If Mr Vendrik asks for this, in a nutshell this is my first insight and how I would like to respond.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u348	I asked a question about this, too. The Secretary of State says he could talk about this for hours. I do not want to invite him to this, but this is also a very important point for our group. The problems are large and widespread. It is not only limited to so-called CAF fraud teams, although they have caused nightmares in a rather kafkaesque way for many families. The problems are right up to the top of the IRS, because he knew about them. So it's structural. We're gonna talk about the tax plan in three weeks. Then there are all kinds of other plans and we have to vote on them, but this raises fundamental questions about the feasibility of the policy when it comes to the Tax Administration. I ask the Secretary of State, because he is also going to debate it with the House of Representatives next week, whether we can get a letter prior to the treatment of the Tax Plan in which the Secretary of State sets out what he considers to be the problems and in what direction he thinks, even when it comes to the feasibility of the policy relating to the Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u349	I sent a piece of 18 pages to both chambers. My very short version to Mr Vendrik does not mean that I do not want to talk about it, but I just finished 18 pages on it, following the interim report, which shows exactly why it went wrong. I'm trying to give a general summary, because we can talk about it for a long time. As far as prevention is concerned, I have included seven measures in the letter which I believe should be changed. This is also part of a discussion about the system itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u350	Mr Van Kesteren spoke this morning about the whole premium circus. This is also part of the reflection on the supplement system itself, according to the Secretary of State. Is it also conceivable that we are going to fundamentally revise that, from the idea that we now have a tax administration that collects taxes on the one hand, but pays them back on the other? That's where it goes wrong. Does the Secretary of State want to reflect on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u351	Sure, in the letter, I'll say there's not one cause. If you want to avoid this in the future, a lot has to change. The culture of the IRS is included. It is also true that we need to rethink systematically once again, for example in the case of vulnerable groups, in the case of the payment of surcharges, whether this requires exactly the same mentality, background and culture. I still think it's something else or you're taking fraud from a big company that's trying to lock money away, or from a vulnerable group of people. It is clear that we have not made a good turn in this respect. I agree that you should take a serious look at that. One of the elements that I have included in the same seven measures is that we need to see whether it should all remain in one hand. Should we organize it the way we do it now? Should a single tax administration be responsible for both the surcharges and the collections, as Mr Van Kesteren said? You never know exactly when it went wrong, but it didn't help at the time that with a service that was already late maintenance at that time the whole supplement system was also hooked up. However, if you look closely at the way in which we think we should settle the surcharges, I am not the one who is the only politically responsible for the surcharges, because my colleagues also have something to say about it, and I think that we have chosen a system of pre-emption and recovery that has proved to be a fragile system. I have said something about this in various media this weekend. I think it would be good if we started to think systematically about whether we could do it. I know how complicated that is, by the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u352	Thank you. As far as I am concerned, we will leave the debate on the Donner Committee's report to the House of Representatives for the next week, but I must say that I thought when I read Mr Donner's report last Friday: this is really code red. It is embarrassing that the Dutch Tax Administration is dealing with supplementaries in this way. It's not a little bit wrong, it's very, very wrong. Given the reaction of the Secretary of State in the media last week, I assume he agrees with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u353	Certainly, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u354	What I just said, let it be. The families who have now been in the picture with the Donner Committee, who are compensated for 300 families in Eindhoven. I would say: do that generously, because this has been extremely serious. My second question is about the system. I had already asked a question about this, but I am looking for a place where we are going to see it again in the coming period. I refer to the ibo 2 and the building block exercise. As far as we are concerned, it is very desirable to change the system, as early as 2006, because a care allowance is not necessary. The same applies to the childcare allowance. The rent allowance is already more complicated. You're not getting off that fast. But if you look fundamentally at the system, then I think you don't have to have a health care allowance in the Netherlands or a child care allowance. Such a fundamental transition, where is it conceived, discussed and worked out? Can the Secretary of State say more about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u355	Mr Vendrik had questions about it, but also Mr Van Apeldoorn and Mr Gerbrandy. I have just said that our surcharge system deserves a thorough discussion on how it was set up. Whether it is as easy as Mr Vendrik suggests, I do not think so. We built it once, and it's incredibly difficult to unbreak it. At the same time, it is good that we take this seriously. When it comes to ibo payments, I would like to draw attention to the experts, who are familiar with the system, both the rent allowance, the childcare allowance and the rent allowance. We'll take it all together. Part 1 has been released to ensure improvements within the system. I thought it was important, in view of the discussion about the childcare allowance, that that came out, because that indicates that the service has made all kinds of mistakes and that the penance rug has been put on. I agree with Mr Vendrik on this point. But some of it may have been organized by the way we set it up. That was important. Now the question is whether you can solve it within the current system, or whether something more is needed. That is actually what Mr Vendrik said. That is exactly what we are discussing in the ibo 2. Part 1 concerns solutions within the system. Part 2 is about the following. Suppose you no longer have to use the frameworks of the current system and you dare to think wider. Is there another system, such as the childcare allowance, to be devised? Everyone here, too, will find that, if you look at how it was meant to be and where we came up with the surcharges, there is now a huge circus, a huge system that we are trying to implement ridiculously efficiently, but that does not fit with the group you are doing it for, the vulnerable people we think have understood everything well in advance. I think we are going to run against the need to adapt the system. But first we wait for the ibo 2. It's coming relatively fast. Then we respond to both ibo 1 and ibo 2, because a cabinet response must also be about the second part. Moreover, we are ready to discuss this with each other already.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u356	Soon the problem of marginal pressure was discussed. We have been carrying this problem with us for 20 years, but the increases since 2006 have made this more serious. A fundamental exploration of options to achieve a real breakthrough here will also be very interesting for marginal pressure. Is that in ibo 2, is that in the building block exercise or is it in both and know how to find each other?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u357	I don't know. So that's what we're gonna see. This kind of fundamental change always brings things together. You can't think about one block and you can't think about another. That is what we are trying to do with the building blocks. Mr Otten also had a question about this. I'll tell you what we're all getting together. If you adjust something in part somewhere, around the surcharges, for example, you know that this has consequences for what happens to marginal pressure. At the same time, it also affects the income position, so what do you do with income tax? It is almost impossible, but that has also been discussed in an earlier ibo, that if you have to fundamentally change it, a lot of parts go along. I think it's always a combination. Mr Vendrik also asked if I could make it clear what fundamental changes should be made to the system. Mr Otten asked something else, namely when I think I have achieved a simplification of the system. In that respect, I would like to say: rather sooner than later. But at the same time, this indicates how complicated it is. Every time I propose simplification in a system, it is accompanied by a certain group of people who suffer from it or companies that suffer from it, or something else happens. It's a complicated attic room with all the strings, my predecessor has said, and every time you put on something, you don't know exactly which box opens. So it is very good that we look at it fundamentally. That's exactly what we want to do with those building blocks. There's always a rush from at least the House of Representatives: come on, come on! I understand we have to do this fast, but if we do it too fast, it's probably not gonna do us any good. On 15 April, I said something about these building blocks. There are six parts that matter. One is the future-proof tax mix and that includes discussions about greening. Is our current tax mix really the mix we need? It is also about taxing revenues from e.g. digital platforms. The economy is changing and we need to look at it. Box 2 is looked at as an important part on which there are many questions. We have already deported it to the people in the country and to companies. What would you guys like to change? Often box 2 comes back as an answer. The distribution between capabilities is important. Not only with tax revenues, but also with assets, we are moving forward. We're gonna look into the future of the Vpb. Environmental pollution and soil erosion is a separate issue. And of course, and that is the last point, the simplification of implementation. The feasibility is and remains key, as far as I am concerned, for every future system we get. Not only from the point of view of the service, but also from the perspective of the citizen and the companies, so that they understand what they are paying for. That's the six blocks we do. My prediction is that when we have six and we come to talk about it quietly, it can be eight or nine, because everyone still has a wish to think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u358	Perhaps in the livestream there are still people watching this debate. Especially in the field of taxation, the problem is that it is becoming very technical. I'm just pretending I don't understand. So it's true that an ibo is an interdepartmental...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u359	An interdepartmental policy investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u360	...is an interdepartmental policy investigation. So it is not a tropical bird, but an interdepartmental policy investigation between officials who ultimately advise you what will come out of it and what political decision-making can take as a building block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u361	He's an independent president. Yeah, that's right. Apologies for the viewers at home. Well, I've probably used more terms they're thinking "what's that good gentleman talking about?', But it's from a good heart. I think it is also important that three opinions are taken into account. First of all, from the Committee on Employment when we are talking, for example, about the discussion on how we are dealing with self-employed people and self-employed people, which was also discussed today. I think it is really important for a future-oriented system that we take into account these opinions. Then, again, the advice of that interdepartmental policy research on supplements. What can we think of to make it better? And further from the Ter Haar Commission, which looks at the tax payments of multinationals from the perspective of the future of the Vpb. In doing so, we are trying to move forward a little faster. These are all elements that are discussed in an official technical preparation. I'll tell you what I've said to the House of Representatives, that we sometimes talk about things and then I say, "What an interesting idea. I'll redirect it to the committee that's working on it." That's how I want to do it. I really want us to be able to put as many facts as possible into the stories. Everyone has a different political preference, and we are aware of that, and we do not mind, but everyone needs data. Suppose we want to go that way and that way, what does that mean? I think those building blocks can help us a lot. In spring 2020, therefore, next spring, we hope to be able to say more about this. Mr. Chairman. Then I come to my last block and that's very short. That's a few other questions. I had a few municipal fund questions, but I was very happy that the Minister has already given all his knowledge and skills to them, so I didn't have to tell so much about them. Mr Vendrik raised a question on export credits. That is a part that may not be in the past, but it is now in the Secretary of State's portfolio. I understand his question very well. Recently we had a meeting with the sector and asked how we could use our export credit so that we could do something in the energy transition. It is not the case that export credits can no longer be used for fossil projects, at least not for indirect fossil projects, because there are still projects that can, for example, improve something far with fossil fuels. So it would be really good to do that. A large part of the world's economy still has to do with the use of fossil fuels. It is clear that we are on our way back and we are looking further at whether, for example, we can use our export credit instruments more when it comes to greening. At the moment, the Minister of EZK, following a motion by Mr Van Raan, is investigating all the tax subsidies available for fossil fuels, including tax regulations. There will soon be an inventory in full width. It is drawn up with the measures that I believe you can see as fossil stimulating. It's good that we have that. We are trying to do that, and I say to those who ask how we do it internationally, and the International Energy Agency is watching. We are trying to do the same as in many European countries. Soon a team of international experts in the Netherlands will be coming along to give their views on this. That report is very useful in the debate on the Van Raan motion. Finally, the young-timer scheme requested by Mr Koffeman. He actually asked very precisely whether diesel cars could be removed from the youngtimer scheme and whether the youngtimer scheme could be opened to electric cars of, for example, five years of age or older. I say this to Mr Koffeman, and that is what I have said to colleagues in the House of Representatives: the young-timer scheme is not intended to be a tax-enhancing scheme. Based on the new price of a car you have to pay an addition of say 25%. Suppose a car is 80 years old, then there comes a time when you say: this car doesn't have the value of 80 years ago. In fact, if you really have an 80-year-old car, that value is probably way too low. You can use that news prize until a judge says you can't see that as a serious addition anymore. Well, the judge never said that the border is exactly 15 years old, as it is now. In fact, in the past it was a few years different. You could move it to 17, 18 years and then maybe we'll find a way in. It is therefore not the case that the scheme is fiscally advantageous. The same goes for removing diesel cars, if you wish. Also for diesel cars, the judge will eventually charge an addition. If it were a tax-enhancing scheme, I would have understood the question, but it is not. That's why I think it wouldn't help that much. The idea of electric cars has also been discussed in the Lower House. The idea was that these cars were frequently exported abroad. It was in the past, but it isn't anymore. To a very limited extent, that still applies. In fact, in the cheaper segment of electric cars, say the electric cars that not only people with a very large wallet can drive, you see that at the moment there is an import of these cars. From that point of view, additional tax incentives for electric or hybrid cars do not seem to be the means needed at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u362	This story is different from the numbers your assistant gave me. Over the past three years, exports of second-hand electric cars have quadrupled. So it's not like they're being imported at all. They are mainly exported to Norway, Germany and Hungary. Either I must have gotten the wrong numbers or you have the wrong numbers. I think it would be useful to check that again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u363	I'd like to check that again with love. You might be talking about hybrids.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u364	No, it's all about electric cars.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u365	I will look into that again, because I understand that in the cheaper segment there is imports of electric cars. If it's different and this is shown by previous figures, I'll check it that way. I'll get back to you in second term. Just a little bit more perspective on this young-timer scheme. It's less than 15,000 cars driving around. Of the Dutch fleet of 8.3 million cars there are about 2 million fifteen years and over. So it is really a very small part of the fleet that runs via the youngtimer scheme on the Dutch roads.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u366	The point of the question is whether it is not very unreasonable for those who drive an electric car in the sixth year, after five years of reasonable measures to make it more flexible, to become so unattractive to drive, in particular, a more expensive electric car that all go abroad. At the moment you want to build an electric market here, it seems useful to have used electric cars available here as well and not only abroad. So if you spend a lot of taxpayers' money here on allowing people to be early adopters in electric cars, it's not convenient to see those cars disappear across the border and it's also not convenient to see at the border crossing that in opposite directions all kinds of fat diesels are brought here from Germany that you don't want. It will not be the intention of the measure, but if cities can now ban diesel cars from the centre, it would ensure that there are no diesels in the youngtimer scheme can also be very well used as a means.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u367	I think there are two misunderstandings here. I'm still fighting all the more expensive electric cars crossing the border. That's not the image I have. Moreover, there is still a misconception that it is a tax regime that I could rule out. The tax scheme of addition indicates what the added value in your box 1, in your income, is of having that car. I can't make a difference. Then the judge should say "I see that a car has a diesel" or "I see that the car is green and I think there should be an addition for blue cars, but not for green cars." That's not possible. It's about the appreciation of that addition. I guess the latter isn't. With regard to the first, I will simply look at how the misunderstanding about those figures arose and I am sure that I have an answer to that. I say immediately that if I am wrong now, I will inform Mr Koffeman in a moment. Finally, Mr Van Apeldoorn asked about the cabinet's plan to house the people and why the landlord levy is still being maintained. We have a landlord's tax, and as a cabinet, we also support it. We've got a lot of construction work to do. That's where a lot of funding is needed. At the same time, it was right that we should do something about it for a number of tasks that the housing corporations have. So we announced a package of measures with Princess Day. We're giving a billion-dollar housing impulse. We had a targeted incentive of 1 billion for housing corporations hidden in it, and also for other landlords through the landlord levy. There were also measures for a better functioning housing market. So we're doing a lot about it. One of the most important data is the question of whether the corporation sector has sufficient lending space to allow additional investment. We also had that looked at. In view of the low interest rates we have just mentioned, it is not surprising that the space they have is extremely large. In fact, we already have basic space of more than 43 billion in planned plans that are already in the books up to 2023. So we really have no reason to abolish the landlord's tax for this. By the way, we have promised to keep our finger on the wrist. There will also be an evaluation of the landlord tax in 2020. Moreover, the Minister for the Environment and Living is following the Ronnes c.s. motion. investigating the social tasks in relation to the financial capacity of the landlords. In this way, too, attention is paid to the problem which I think has been rightly identified, namely that of building around what Mr Van Apeldoorn calls 'building around'. Mr. Chairman. That is what I think has come to the end of my contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u368	Mr Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u369	This afternoon, I also mentioned the increase in the elderly's discount by €400 in the four health measures that I proposed, the amount which will increase the working discount again this year or next year. Can the Secretary of State still respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u370	Yes, a bit in line with what Mr Van Rooijen has probably heard before: that is not the choice we have made. By the way, we have increased the elderly discount at the beginning of this cabinet period. In the August decision-making process there was an increase in the employment discount, but this was opposed to a reduction in the self-employed deduction, which was very specific for workers and also forzzp'ers. I understand, and I know that Mr Van Rooijen always wants, whatever we do, at least to add an increase in the old discount, but that is not the choice of the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u371	It's not a matter of sticking or anything. It is about that debate that I have already had with the Minister that the employment discount will be increased by €1,000 over the next three years and the elderly discount will not be increased at all by exogene, with policy decisions, over the next three years. This difference is so great that a modest increase in the elderly discount is appropriate. I would point out that, in the period I was here last time, the previous cabinet even intended to reduce the elderly's discount and to increase the employment discount further and further. Then we went to Rutte's house for coffee. He also called me once when I was on the race bike. He needed us back then, too. Instead of a reduction of €100, there was a temporary increase of €240. It was of course permanent a year later, otherwise the fall would have been great again. I still want to recommend that politely and I will come back to the Tax Plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u372	Okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u373	Then Mr Gerbrandy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u374	In my first term, I talked about an idea for which the time is right. That's stronger than all the armies in the world, so that says a lot. You didn't respond. Is that gonna be in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u375	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u376	Then I'll wait and see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u377	Thank you, Secretary of State. We now come to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Fentrop.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u378	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thirteen hours after the start of the first term now the second. The good news that I have picked up from the Minister is that I have found a very cautious willingness on his part to look at the desired and best population size in the Netherlands. A very cautious willingness, because he is going to send a study that is already being made about it to the Upper Chamber. I hope that I have planted the seed with it, so that this concept, the density of the population in the Netherlands, is included in the broad welfare principle that we use in long-term policy and that it may become a decisive factor. A less positive point, I think, is that the Minister says that the collective burden is something I am somewhat concerned about, because the 40% are approaching next year, so it is just as bad. A little later I heard that the argument to set up Invest-NL was said that in 2030, that is a little bit further, the collective burden in the Netherlands partly because of the ageing population is so high that we need an investment fund to do something about it. So I am very concerned about the collective burden burden in the Netherlands. My colleagues in the Chamber, especially the people who were involved in the interrupting microphone, tend to think that a lot of public spending and public investment could save us from various disasters. I would like to point out to them that when the collective burden in a country reaches the limit of 40%, it is not just a limit to spending more public money. That doesn't stimulate the economy anymore. Several economists have been quoted today. These are IMF economists who have investigated this and cited it by the Council of State in its opinions. So I am concerned about the collective burden and I will continue to do so. I have argued in favour of increasing the earning capacity of the Dutch population by reducing the burden. I have tried to change the mind of the Secretary of State with regard to the self-employed deduction, and that is all I can do in this Chamber, and I have not noticed that it has succeeded. The self-employed will thus continue to be structurally reduced by 450 million in the coming years. So they have to work harder for the same money. It's an amount of 450 million. I was thinking that this is exactly the same as the 460 million teachers rejected as insufficient, but this will impose additional burdens on small entrepreneurs in the Netherlands, structuralally, forever, forever and forever. Then there is the State Secretary's reaction to the capital efficiency levy. It came a little later in the evening and maybe that made me even more gloomy, or disappointed I must say. The Secretary of State argued that the flat-rate return was fairly fair because he looked at it in the case of shares in the long term of 15 years ago. I think that will make Mr Van Rooijen in particular very happy. If his colleague were to do the same for pension funds and look at the returns over the last 15 years, we would have no problem whatsoever. I find it a little faint that the Dutch minister continues to send private Dutch people in this way with a bunch of bollocks. I have some time left, but I won't use it. I'll give it to the entire room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u379	Thank you, Mr. Frentrop. I shall then give the floor to Mr Wever for his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u380	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My time is limited, so I'll be brief. Thank you to the two rulers for their comprehensive and often clear answers and sometimes quite rightly some vague descriptions. It started with the investment fund. We're anxious to see what you're coming up with. I have asked what is the order of all those studies that are being done on understanding quality, the 2020-2050 strategy, its impact on a growth agenda and the impact of that growth agenda on the investment fund. You don't have to work that out verbally here, but perhaps we can get a short memo with the order of things and the planning in time. That would be welcome. Secondly, I am very pleased with the Minister's response to the MFF, which is not to be over-coulant. I agree with the Juice of the Cabinet to focus on other priorities in Europe. We need to get rid of these structural funds. As the Minister said, other subjects. At the same time, we must continue to act firmly on the position where we are now and with a Brexit certainly not put on any more. Finally, and I am sure that Mrs Sent will say more about this, I support her in it with steps-to-step and the social domain. There can't be any discussion here and there. There can only be one consultation and that is between the Cabinet and the VNG. When it comes to cost and waiting lists, I think it is the same with the sector. That's what I'm saying as a child care supervisor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u381	Thank you, Mr. Wever. I shall now give the floor to Mr Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u382	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank you, the colleagues and the rulers for their kind words today. Thank you to the two rulers for answering the many questions. That is what this debate is for, of course. We don't see the minister here that often, so we're gonna have to have a day like today. The Minister's response was rather masterful, but I need a motion on three points. It concerns first of all a focus on my request on a green sustainability study. The second motion concerns the orientation of the investment fund and its agenda. That is what we discussed in the debate. I do not think it is sufficiently clear what exactly is going to be the direction of the cabinet. Thirdly, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the reply on export credit insurance. That sounded a little too fossil to my ears. In my opinion, the message must be that all public investment activities, supported by the Dutch government, Invest-NL, but also via Europe, the European Investment Bank, are now finally moving in the direction. For example, in the case of the European Investment Bank, I do not see why this does not apply to export credit insurance, for example. That's exactly the transition we want. That is where consistency of policy is desirable. The President shall: Mr Vendrik, Mr Sent, Mr Van Apeldoorn, Mr Koffeman and Mr Karimi proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that compliance with the ambitions of the Paris Agreement is currently far from certain;]] [[Whereas the financial and economic impact of uncontrolled climate change may be significant;]] [[considers that sound financial and economic policies should be based on good understanding of their impact on the (Dutch) economy and budget;]] [[Furthermore, considering that understanding of the costs of uncontrolled climate change contributes to the right perspective for investment in climate change management;]] [[invites the Cabinet to periodically conduct a green sustainability study that provides insight into the impact of climate change on the (Dutch) economy and budget,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] Mr Vendrik, Mr Sent, Mr Van Apeldoorn, Mr Koffeman and Mr Karimi proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the implementation of the Climate Agreement and the promotion of a sustainable economy benefit from consistent public policies;]] [[noting that existing instruments such as the Ekv in the recent past have been used to support fossil projects;]] [[calls on the government, like Invest-NL and the EIB, to exclude the support of fossil projects from the ECV,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] Mr Vendrik, Mr Karimi, Mr Ganzevoort, Mr Kluit and Mr Veldhoen proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Cabinet is currently developing plans for an investment fund and a related policy agenda;]] [[Whereas the Netherlands has many challenges in terms of the desired transition to a sustainable economy and the promotion of broad prosperity;]] [[calls on the cabinet to put this perspective at the heart of the further development of the fund and agenda,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-R]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-S]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-T]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u383	I would like to thank Mr Vendrik. I am happy to give the floor to Mr Van Kesteren.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u384	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the rulers for their generally confidence-building answers. In my first term, I asked for particular attention to be paid to the relationship between business in the broad sense and government. The Minister responded to this, but I would like the cabinet to find a form for this which could lead to better results in the short term. The Fund has our support provided that it has a strictly defined objective and clear governance. We are disappointed with the capital efficiency levy. That's not right. I think we should discuss this in greater detail in the Tax Plan. We can't get out of the way with what's now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u385	Thank you, Mr. Van Kesteren. Then I give the floor to Mrs Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u386	As I walked, the clock was running.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u387	I'm gonna stop him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u388	It listens very closely. I would like to thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for the careful and patient response to our questions. Our country is doing well, some groups are doing badly. For example, I would like to summarise the contribution of the PvdA in the first term. The fact that the economy is doing well does not mean that the Netherlands is doing well. As Robert Kennedy once said nicely about economic figures: "It measures everything, in short, except that which makes life worthwhile." That is why we welcome the attention paid to Broad Prosperity in the Millions Note. Nevertheless, I have asked a number of critical questions in the first period. I would like to check the answers in this second term. First of all, the problems in the municipalities. They're urgent now. I would like to point out that the G40 wants to move to another funding system. The Board of Public Administration also advises a review of the Municipal Fund. We look forward to the cabinet's proposals to correct the looming errors in the stair-on-strap systems, but the pace at which this happens should not be such that they can only be implemented by 2021. That is why I will table a motion at the end of my second term. I also drew attention to the particular situation that 2.5 billion of the intensifications promised by the cabinet are not being spent. "Special" is still understated. The minister says he's gonna do his stinking best to still spend the intensifications. Those are his words. Is it possible to inform the Chamber about the progress of this dossier in the course of the coming year, I ask him. Both the Council of State and the CPB are seriously critical of releasing the salmon standard. We have had the necessary exchange of views on this issue. The PvdA's criticism is that the money does not reach the groups that need it most. I would like to thank the Minister for his explanation of the course at national level and ask him to confirm that, as far as he is concerned, there is sufficient room for economic stimulation as soon as it falls into bad weather. Financial stability is still at risk. The banking sector needs to become more diverse and less dependent on some large banks. To this end, the Sustainable Finance Lab has made a number of worthwhile recommendations. I note from the Minister's reply that he shares the analysis of the problem, but I do not see any immediate response to the recommendations that are being made. I ask him to do so either in this debate or whether he is prepared to do so in writing. Mr. Chairman. I conclude with thanks for the commitment to pay attention to the limited effectiveness of financial incentives. I conclude with the conclusion that there is a huge gap between economic growth and the experience of a number of people. They feel that their security is being undermined: the security of a fixed contract, of an affordable home and of good education. Economic growth doesn't make it happy. The prosperity must also be shared fairly, otherwise it is only a trick to distract us from the real problems of the Netherlands. The PvdA likes to stay in conversation with the cabinet about how to deal with these problems. To this end, I would like to present the motion previously promised, with the background, as I have said, that, as far as we are concerned, it is undesirable to wait until the 2021 budget for correcting loom errors in the system. The President shall: Mr Sent, Mr Vendrik, Mr Van Apeldoorn, Mr Koffeman and Mr Gerbrandy proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the State contribution to the Municipal Fund is linked to the total national expenditure;]] [[whereas if the Empire spends less than expected, as is currently the case, municipalities will receive less money than expected;]] [[noting that the Council of State points out the "unrest and uncertainty" brought about by the current system;]] [[noting that the Council of State calls the current financing system "not good for the quality of decision-making in municipalities";]] [[Whereas the Cabinet has been asked to come forward with proposals to adapt the system before the end of the year;]] [[Whereas this adjustment will only have an impact on the 2021 budget;]] [[noting that the problems in the municipalities are now urgent;]] [[calls on the government to consult with the municipalities and to take account of the outcome as early as 2020 in order to get more peace in the system by 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-U]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u389	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both directors for their detailed answers. I'm not gonna check them all out. I have seen the Minister of Finance as an authoritative ruler and I encourage him to continue to do so. He will also have to use that authority creatively to realize the great ambitions of the cabinet, as expressed by the fund, the package or whatever we are going to call it. I think we've had enough talk about that tonight... with a descending border nut. In case I have been unclear about it, I say that the idea and ambition behind such a fund are certainly supported by the D66 Group. Quo vadis Hoekstra with regard to budgetary discipline? I think that he was very well represented on this question in relation to the explanatory statement on the budget, because I had not read it in that way. I'm grateful to him for that. My group will continue to follow him closely on his tour of Europe in the negotiations on the budget and the discussions on it, but also on the banking union. I wish him a great deal of wisdom in that. I wish him that wisdom in the many responsibilities he bears. I would then like to wish the Secretary of State success in the complex debates on the complex and tragic subject of the surcharges, while at the same time continuing to give political direction to the service that makes up most of the revenue side of this budget. Mr. Chairman. I will advise my group to vote in favour of this budget proposal next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u390	Thank you, Mr. Bakker. I give the floor to Mr Van Strien.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u391	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for answering the questions. I would have liked a clearer answer to some of my questions, at least to the question of whether the Minister still believes in the funded pension system. Having heard the answers he has given to this subject, including to Mr Van Rooijen, I would like to leave it at that, with thanks for what he wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u392	Thank you, Mr. Van Strien. I'll give the floor to Mr. Ester.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u393	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks to the rulers. First of all, I welcome the decision of Minister Koolmees today to take an extra year in the debate on pension discounts and coverage rates. That'll take the cold out of the sky for a while. Maybe it's good to share that with each other, too. Despite the Minister's statements, I see a slight tilting around the salmon standard. We would have preferred this to have been discussed more explicitly in the Millions' Note, including as a starting point for a possible debate on this issue. My group looks forward to the future fund. We have high expectations of this, as I have indicated. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his commitment to make a brief note for the treatment of the Tax Plan in this house on how effective the employment discount is actually still to promote employment participation. Mr. Chairman. My group drew attention to something far less festive at the celebration of this budget, namely child poverty and the situation of working poor in the Netherlands. At least the Minister made a commitment to discuss this issue with his colleague Mr Van Ark, but this House will also return to this discussion at another time. The Group of the Christian Union will continue to raise these issues. For a highly developed society like ours, child poverty and working poverty are unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u394	Thank you, Mr. Ester. I give the floor to Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u395	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the rulers for their answer. In the second term, I do not have the time to comment on the Minister's philosophical reflections on the issues of public finances, fiscal policy and public debt. But I followed them with interest. I would nevertheless like to encourage the Minister to make another impact in his thinking on this subject, given the new reality of structurally low interest rates. This reality is true for the Minister, as I have noted earlier, when it comes to his considerations regarding the investment fund, but in budgetary policy he often maintains Calvinist orthodoxy. He says that the debt has to be paid off, but that is what I would like to say to the Minister, on a mistake in thinking about government debt. Because you can renew them all the time. After all, the government has eternal life. The need for large-scale public investment remains valid for my group, primarily from a social point of view, because it is a matter of major social problems that we need to solve and we are otherwise left with a situation of private wealth and public poverty, but also from the point of view of the economy. When it comes to investment in education, it is also about our earning capacity. That is why we do not just need that investment fund. With regard to the motion for a resolution calling for a reduction target on child poverty, I welcome the commitment that the cabinet will still come up with a letter on how this motion might still be implemented. We'll wait and see. Finally, I have two points to make. The first is power inequality. I checked the publication of the CBS. That decline in property inequality, as I thought, is purely due to the still rising house prices. If you take out your own apartment, the power inequality will still be very large. The gini coefficient is above 0.8. The minister said: but that's for taxes and after taxes it looks different. Thank you for the cuckoo. We don't have any taxes on wealth. I just wanted to point that out to the Minister. This applies to income, but not to wealth, or I must have missed something and we have introduced a capital tax. That would be very nice. Finally, with regard to the major problems, the embarrassing problems surrounding the Tax Administration, I would just like to stress once again the urgency of this. I am pleased that the Secretary of State has indicated that thinking on this matter is now accelerating. It is high time, as far as we are concerned. That should have been done much earlier, but better late than never and better in half than completely lost thought is now being given to a fundamental reform of the system, because in this way it will no longer be possible to do so in terms of the feasibility of the Tax Administration. So we also like to see these new thoughts. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u396	Thank you, Mr. Van Apeldoorn. I shall then give the floor to Mr Koffeman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u397	Thank you, Mr President. We discussed the problem of biomass. I have the impression that it does not really weigh very heavily on the cabinet, because in recent years billions of aid has been devoted to biomass power plants. That dates back to the time when we thought biomass was a cleaner fuel than natural gas and coal. That does not appear to be the case. On behalf of the Ministry of IenW, it has been determined that biomass is 20% dirtier than coal and twice as polluting as natural gas. I think it is important for the cabinet to consider whether it is wise to enter into long-term commitments through SDE+ schemes to continue biomass, while we know that biomass is already being overasked two to four times. There's not enough biomass in this country. It's from abroad. We are being asked by American citizens and conservationists to do something about it, because their forests are being set up in our biomass plants. The fact that a small biomass plant in Winschoten was shut down today to heat a swimming pool, which was really 10 times more harmful emissions than would have been allowed, should make the government realize that it makes little sense to build hundreds of new biomass plants. In that context, I would like to table this motion. The President shall: Mr Koffeman, Mr Teunissen, Mr Nicolaï, Mr Van Apeldoorn, Mr Gerbrandy, Mr Otten, Mr Frentrop and Mr Van Strien proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, according to research conducted by DNV GL on behalf of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Water State, biomass plants emit 20% more nitrogen, particulate matter and carbon than coal plants and twice as much as gas-fired plants;]] [[Whereas there is a risk of a proliferation of small biomass plants which ensures that demand for biomass exceeds available supply and stimulates imports of uncertified or poorly certified biomass from abroad;]] [[Whereas biomass plants are still subsidised through SDE+;]] [[calls on the Government to stop granting new subsidies to biomass plants immediately,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-V]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u398	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With regard to the Programmatic Approach to Nitrogen, I would like to correct something. I said that the Party for Animals had only voted against the cradle of the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen. That is not the case. We were happy at the time not to be shouting in the desert, because GroenLinks and the SP also rejected it. We very much welcome the fact that there are more parties that have come to the realization that the Programmatic Approach to Nitrogen is simply not right and that there is a growing group of people's representatives who are moving away from it. I have already exchanged with the Minister that there is something weird about the fact that the Minister of Agriculture is constantly repeating that there are no taboos. It is very pleasant that there are no taboos. But the more that is said, the more the impression is given that there is a great taboo, namely that livestock farming should not be reduced. Fortunately, there is also a government party that has said that you should at least halve it and then we do not agree on cows. That was about pigs and chickens. In that context, I would like to table the next motion. I hope that the government party will also support this. The President shall: Mr Koffeman, Mr Teunissen, Mr Nicolaï, Mr Van Apeldoorn and Mr Kox proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, according to research carried out by the Central Bureau of Statistics, Dutch livestock farms emit up to three times as much nitrogen as previously assumed;]] [[Whereas, according to this study, so-called low-emission stables do not or hardly contribute to the reduction of emissions from these stables due to malfunctioning or malfunctioning environmental systems;]] [[calls on the Government to exclude from support measures to combat the nitrogen crisis symptom reduction of unproven quality, such as technical adjustments to stables and composition of animal feed, and to promote a warm improvement in livestock farming with a view to a permanent reduction in the number of animals kept,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-W]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u399	Mr. Chairman. Let's just get back to the young-timer scheme. There seems to be a lot of misunderstandings about that. I've just checked the schedule. There is a diversification already, namely: if you have an electric car, you pay 17% of the daily value in the youngtimer scheme and if you have a diesel or petrol car, you pay 35%. Even if it is not a tax instrument, it is therefore possible to do something about it, to diversify it. Now the curious fact is that an electric car of 15 years or older only has to pay 17%, but there are no electric cars of 15 years or older. Surely that should be all the reason for the Secretary of State to take another look at these glasses and think: what is the use of legislation for a non-existent situation? It would be nice to review that for a while. This motion could be a bit of support for that. The President shall: Mr Koffeman, Mr Teunissen, Mr Nicolaï, Mr Gerbrandy and Mr Kox proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the estimates for the Climate Agreement refer to 380,000 electric cars in our country in 2025;]] [[Whereas exports of used electric cars have increased explosively in recent years for tax reasons;]] [[Whereas the Cabinet encourages the commercial driving of highly polluting cars through the youngtimer scheme, but de facto excludes electric cars from that scheme;]] [[calls on the government to exclude highly polluting old diesel cars from the youngtimer scheme and in return to open the youngtimer scheme to electric cars older than five years of age,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-X]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u400	Mr. Chairman. I'll be brief. It is disappointing that even today many questions were not answered fully or properly, as was the case with the General Reviews. Surely it makes you a little cynical when, as a people's representative, you have to exercise control over the government. We have heard that there is some vague investment fund coming from many tens of billions, but what is going to happen to the money is still a mystery. But borrowing 50 billion for an unclear investment fund seems to be no problem for this cabinet. It doesn't cost anything either, because the state is getting money and public debt is on the verge of getting too low. Mr. Chairman. As I explained in my first term, it is now time for concrete measures to quickly repair the purchasing power slaughter of the Rutte Cabinets for all. We are tabling a motion to substantially increase the general tax rebate by 1 January, so that everyone can make significant progress in purchasing power. As the Secretary of State himself pointed out, this is an effective measure that can also be implemented quickly. We find the cover for this by removing the amount of this reduction from the Wiebes and Hoekstra investment fund and reducing this fund by a similar amount. Finally, with regard to the surcharges. We see that the system is now completely jammed. The Tax Administration is pumping tens of billions of supplements to 7.5 million people. That must be simpler and more effective, is our idea. We're filing a motion to launch an investigation into this and get the Chamber to inform on this. This motion is supported by Mr Van Rooijen of 50PLUS and Mr Koffeman of the Party for Animals. The President shall: Mr Otten, Mr Rookmaker and Mr De Vries proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the purchasing power of many working and retired Dutch people is structurally lagging behind the growth of the Dutch economy;]] [[Considering the urgent need for a drastic simplification of the tax system, in order to ensure a rapid and adequate repair of this structurally backward purchasing power;]] [[whereas simplification of the tax system is urgently needed and that public debt is now being repaid too quickly, especially in the case of current negative interest rates;]] [[calls on the Government to adapt the Tax Plan 2020 in such a way as to increase the general tax reduction from €2,711 to €3,500 by 1 January 2020, pending a complete simplification of the tax system,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] Mr Otten, Mr Rookmaker, Mr De Vries, Mr Van Rooijen and Mr Koffeman proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the current surcharge system, which has been developed for a limited group of people, has taken a huge flight in recent years, resulting in huge amounts of money being pumped around through the Tax Administration;]] [[noting that this surcharge system has become totally out of control and leads to all kinds of undesirable and often poignant situations;]] [[noting that in many cases the surcharge system leads to a hugely high marginal tax burden, which systematically discourages (more) working;]] [[Whereas a drastic simplification of the tax system is now urgently needed;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibilities for simplifying the surcharge system and to inform the Court of Justice of this for the next Tax Plan,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-Y]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-Z]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u401	Mr. Chairman. Between the companies I saw two headlines tonight about the letter from the Minister of Social Affairs. In De Telegraaf: most pensions saved, but for how long? In de Volkskrant: freezing pension should give rest, but for how long? My question this afternoon was: but for how long? That's the question. This afternoon's motion gives the answer, at least not for one, but for two years. Finally, Mr President. The Minister's answer to my question on the expert committee's calculation method has disappointed me a little. I believe that an incentive, including to the Council of Ministers, Mr Koolmees and the Prime Minister, could be useful. Hence the next motion. The President shall: Mr Van Rooijen, Mr Otten, Mr Frentrop, Mr Van Apeldoorn and Mr Van Strien proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas low interest rates seriously disrupt the construction of young people's pensions and do not index or threaten to reduce the pensions of millions of older people;]] [[Whereas, in recent years, accounting rates have fallen far short of the actual returns of pension funds on average;]] [[Whereas the low interest rate is partly due to the ECB's exceptional monetary policy;]] [[calls on the Government to set up a committee of experts, with the task of examining a prudent calculation rate methodology, partly in line with risk-free interest rates and partly taking into account the actual returns of pension funds,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-AA]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u402	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. I shall now give the floor to Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u403	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the rulers for the answers. There are still a few points I would like to mention. First of all, the investment fund, which the Minister has talked about quite extensively. The fund was already hijacked in this Chamber with all kinds of other terms, such as a future package, a future fund or a transition fund. As far as I am concerned, the Minister has made it very clear that this is really for new things: innovative things that need to be set up in the future, and not for all kinds of things such as current climate problems, nitrogen, education fees and so on. It's fine that all that's gonna happen. I also welcome the fact that the Minister has promised that he will provide a sum of the items that have been added to it since Princess Day. I also like to see what cover is included. I understand that he himself wanted to extend that to the additional expenditure for the entire reign so far. I think that's excellent, too. But of course I am particularly concerned about the last part. We have discussed the salmon standard in detail. The Minister has certainly understood from me that the SGP will follow it closely after the explanation he has given. There was a misunderstanding about Joseph during my first term. I talked about Joseph from the first book of the Old Testament, and Mrs Sent mentioned Joseph from the first book of the New Testament. There's a big difference. I promise her I'll come back to it during the treatment of the Tax Plan. That's more appropriate, because then we'll be in Advent Weeks. Of course, Joseph and Mary from the New Testament have everything to do with the coming Christmas party. With regard to the Joseph tax, I should like to make the final point that I hope to return to the Tax Plan, in relation to the tax building blocks, as the Secretary of State put it. Remains me to wish the rulers strength, wisdom and heart the blessing of God, even for the coming period. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u404	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Gerbrandy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u405	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My time was up. I'll be brief. In the Netherlands, 700,000 people live below the poverty line. I believe that everyone has the right to security of life. The Minister has already promised to give me a reflection in the second term on the idea of replacing the premium circus with a basic income for everyone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u406	Thank you, Mr. Gerbrandy. Minister and Secretary of State, are you able to... There's a nod before I ask the question. Are you able to respond directly to the questions of the Chamber? That's the case. Then I am happy to give the floor to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u407	Mr President, thank you very much. I had some suspicion in which direction your question would go, so that's why I'm thrilled to nod. Many thanks also to Members for all that they have said in their second term. I would like to begin by briefly considering a limited number of issues from the first period that have remained. I shall then turn to the questions from the second term. With your permission, I am not going to comment on the reflections, although I also feel so about half-twelve crickets, but it might require a little too much of the stamina. Third, I'll say a few words about the motions. Maybe I can take the opportunity to ask your Registry through you if I can get the whole package of motions in order, because I think you like me to go in the right order and I've made a bit of an administrative mess of it. If I could make that request to you, Mr President, I would be delighted to do so. Mr. Chairman. I'll start with what was left of the first term. I had announced that I would come back to two things, but there was one greater omission. Mr Gerbrandy pointed that out to me just now in his second term. He wasn't just nice enough to share his views on basic income with me, but he even came up with a book. I thank him very much for that. I'll read that book and I'll suspend my final judgment until the Secretary of State and I both finish the book. There is a lot to say about the subject; may I make that preliminary remark? Because the suggestion, which is also on the front of the book, I have of course unpacked it for a while: free money for everyone. Then I am much further than Mr Van Apeldoorn, who is already unreasonably far on one of the flanks, is my cautious observation. So I'm not quite sure if we're getting any closer or farther from home. But I would like to thank Mr Gerbrandy very much. I'm sure we're gonna take that conversation again. I thought it was extremely thoughtful. I would also like to thank him for the beautiful quote by Victor Hugo. Many of these quotes sound best in their original language. I can't say it like Victor Hugo did, but nothing is so powerful as an idea whose time has come. This is often used in English. Hugo has left so many fantastic quotes to us that I look forward to the opportunity to have more debates here with his quotes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u408	I would just like to respond to the Minister's remark that free money would be an illusion for everyone. Maybe he should talk to the European Central Bank about this, because free money for everyone is still expensive compared to the current situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u409	When it comes to the fascinating fact that at least the government can borrow money and, as a thank you for borrowing that money, receive money, Mr Koffeman is quite right, but an important part of my first term has been that I have pointed out that that money must be repaid once. Then Mr Van Apeldoorn says: yes, but you can extend that debt every time. That is theoretically true, but it is not guaranteed that you always do so at interest rates as low as at present. Mr. Chairman. I would like to say something to Mrs Sent about the step-on-step approach and the evaluation. This evaluation will be completed in the spring and will therefore be considered by the Study Group on Budget Space. The cabinet is also in conversation with municipalities at the moment. I would therefore ask Mrs Sent to really take some more time. With regard to the study group, I would like to make another comment, since several members have referred to that study group. The study group is independent and consists of officials who would like to take the opportunity to come up with an independent opinion at least once. Where MPs wanted to put some subjects in the study group basket, I deliberately used the formula in the Lower House that I assume that the study group will follow the debates closely and will undoubtedly be inspired by listening to the debates. But that is a little different from my suggestion that it should be on the list, because that would affect the very foundation of that independence. I don't think that's wise. Maybe I can use this formula in relation to the comments made by Mrs Sent on steps-on-step; but several comments have been made about the study group. I owed Mr Wever an answer to a first-term question. I will come back to his second-term question on the investigations of the WRR and the SER. The WRR started in early 2019 and will be ready for the elections by the end of 2020, early 2021. The ESC intends to complete the exploration in spring 2020. Then I'm sure we'll take that conversation again. Mr. Chairman. This brings me to my second-term replies. I do it in order of the speakers, but not everyone had any additional questions. Mr Wever asked about the order of a few subjects. I would, of course, like to write a letter, but I think I can also say something very briefly about order. I recalled in the first term that the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy intends to come up with a good letter before the end of this calendar year. That's one. Then, of course, there will be a lot of things, but that is the first moment when there is also an opportunity to discuss this with each other. As is now foreseen, the reports of the broad social reviews will then be sent to the Chamber in February 2020. That's two. Three is the Operation Understanding Quality. There is not one specific moment for this, but it is a continuous dialogue that is organised by the administration, but also politically. I happened to see in the pause of this debate that all kinds of conversations were also scheduled between the various rulers and myself to discuss this subject. It has the special attention of the rapporteurs Snels and Sneller from the Lower House. The last piece of order is the investment fund. This will bring us back before the end of the first quarter of 2020. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Sent once again, understandably, also called for attention to under-spending. She asked me to inform her about how that goes. Maybe I can make a deal with her so that at least I'll do it on spring note. It is a conversation that naturally begins in the bosom of the cabinet. I will not say that it is a dark and dark work there, but it is something I have to do primarily with other rulers. But at the latest by spring note I will inform the Chambers of the plurality of this. Mr. Chairman. I look at Mrs Sent with half an eye to see if she also had a question about the Sustainable Finance Lab, because I am going to say something about that too. I can only endorse many of the messages from the WRR and the Sustainable Finance Lab. I have also sent a detailed agenda for the financial sector to the House of Representatives. This is about resilience, diversity and innovation, often also an underexposed part of what we all ask of the public sector. But in line with the WRR and the Sustainable Finance Lab, it is important to stress that, even if you reason from the here and now and think about more stability and more diversity, about which I have already said something in the first term, it is still difficult to argue exactly what would be the ideal system. That is why we are focusing on more solidity, more stability. We also want to entame more diversity, innovation and greening, and so a lot more. For example, we want to ensure that banks play a role in the field of money laundering. But making a blueprint that we then work towards is not wise. There I find the Sustainable Finance Lab and the WRR at my side. Mr. Chairman. I shall take a quick look at the list, but then I think I have had the questions that have been asked in the second term. I would like to thank all the speakers very much for their comments. Then I'll get to the motions. I'm skipping a few motions because they're primarily for the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u410	A very short question about that commitment about that list of extra finances. At what time could that be?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u411	He didn't miss me. I would have made the promise twice. I'll repeat it again now. I'll make sure the survey is at the Chamber for Christmas. That is, I think, within a reasonable time. Mr President, I shall begin with the motion under letter... Now I'm gonna mess it up if I don't watch it. I will begin with the Green Left motion on Paris and the green sustainability study. If I am strict, I should really discourage the motion, but I would suggest to Mr Vendrik that he will continue the motion, because the Planning Bureau will soon be coming up with a new study. It also looks at the wide impact on public finances. And we've been over and over again calculating the Climate Agreement. There's gonna be another moment soon. So I would ask Mr Vendrik to take that and hold the motion for a resolution. The motion under letter S lies primarily on the premises of the Secretary of State. Then the motion under letter T. I have exhausted myself in trying to explain why we should not want to impose all kinds of demands on the investment fund beforehand, and we should have had the discussion at once at the end of the first quarter, even though we have not been able to resist the temptation today. I also think it is important that we do not try to fill that Christmas tree with all sorts of things in advance. Many of the spokesmen have pointed this out. I would really like to say to Mr Vendrik that the whole cabinet, especially the Minister of EZK and I, has committed themselves to the Climate Agreement, that the sentence in this passage of the Millions' Note is really not for nothing, but that I cannot go this way. If Mr Vendrik wishes to continue the motion until the first quarter, we may be able to take it back. But if he gives her consent, then the same goes for all the motions on the investment fund, namely that I should not advise her on the substance of the matter alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u412	I fear that we will not continue in mutual understanding for what I intend to do with the motion and what the cabinet is doing now. The Minister is now turning this motion into a Christmas tree. I'll fight that once and for all. This is about focus. You don't just pick projects because they're investable. You choose projects because you make a political choice. I have devoted my entire first term to not only explaining where this political choice of not only the GroenLinks Group comes from, but also to explain where it ultimately comes from in the Dutch government's choice in 2015 to support a very, very important agenda. That's not a Christmas tree. That is a political agenda, supported by the Dutch cabinet. This may lead to a good investment agenda and so on. I do hear the Minister mention all kinds of subjects that I think are: I do not know exactly what it is intended for, but it affects some of the outstanding budget lines; I can also make it a Christmas tree. I really want to avoid that discussion. I would ask the Minister to do the same and to focus on the message of the motion that this is a choice to strengthen a choice already made by the Dutch government in 2015. Can I have his comment on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u413	I can see some calls in Mr Vendrik's voice. I believe that there is basic enthusiasm on the part of GroenLinks and on the part of the cabinet about many of the elements that are hidden in the discussion we are going to have about the investment fund. So I have not used the Christmas tree with regard to what GroenLinks wants in the broadest sense, but I think it is important to ensure that we do not prelude to all kinds of other things that are of great social importance now, but that you should ask yourself whether they should be organised by this. We have just, quite apart from the investment fund, concluded a Climate Agreement. We're taking all kinds of steps that take us to Paris. We are going to step on top of that insofar as we can get countries abroad with it. The Secretary of State is very busy with the flight tax. He has recently achieved great success in foreign affairs. We're in the middle of greening the financial sector. There are a lot of things we do on top of that, but not all the good things we try to do must automatically find a place in this fund. However, I would like to insist on the request to the Green Left that we really do have a pass here. Mr President, I do not quite know how to interpret Mr Vendrik's expression of face, but I will find out on my own. Then I am at Mrs Sent's motion under letter U, on the Municipal Fund. We are invited to enter into consultations and to take that outcome with us by 2020. I would like to say to Mrs Sent that, as a cabinet, we have a long-standing dialogue with the UNG. We're talking right now. It's being investigated. This is included in the study group's list. This is what it looks like, I say in the light of what I said earlier. I do not think this is sensible and helpful to colleagues in the cabinet and towards the VNG. I hope that Mrs Sent will be able to live with many of the remarks I made on behalf of the cabinet and which are nevertheless very much in the direction of the idea shared by Mrs Sent with your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u414	These comments by the Minister make the motion even more urgent, because a motion has been tabled in the Lower House to discuss with the VNG and to come forward with proposals before the end of the year. Now I hear the Minister talking about 'in the course of 2021', while the problems are now urgent. I wonder how this motion from the House of Representatives relates to the plea that we will only be informed about this in the course of 2021.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u415	For the record, we are discussing the budget for 2020. As far as I've mixed up years, it shouldn't be. The conversation with the VNG and the research were completed in the first quarter of the coming year, so somewhere in the next few months. Only then will it be ready in time to serve as inspiration for the study group, because it must also separate information and insights towards the coming summer. So that offers opportunities to adjust, where necessary and where sufficient political support exists, in all the decision-making moments that we are about to have. But in order to do something at this stage, while these talks are going on and that evaluation is going on, I find it all too harsh to the colleagues of the cabinet who are talking about this. I would therefore like to ask for some understanding from the PvdA Group on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u416	We have a great deal of understanding of the pace that has to be followed in order to handle things carefully. However, I would like to point out once again that, unless I have not read it correctly, the motion really says that the cabinet is being asked to come forward with proposals before the end of the year in consultation with the UNG. In addition, as soon as agreement is reached, my motion calls for this to be dealt with at the highest possible rate and not to wait until the 2021 budget, because the problems of municipalities are now urgent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u417	That's really complicated, also given the systematic. I have no choice but to suggest to Mrs Sent that the motion be retained. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to dissuade her. Should that help Mrs Sent, I would like to say that I would ask the most detailed colleagues in the cabinet to share what is already to be said and also to inform the Chamber once again about the procedure and to let the votes scheduled for next week know exactly what the overview is, so that at least all the information is on the table. Because, of course, I am here without any embarrassment to interfere with the work of colleagues in the cabinet. That in itself is a great privilege, but I also want to restrict myself a little bit. So let me promise her that if she thinks that's gonna help. Then the PvdA Group can always decide to hold the motion or take the leap into the deep end.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u418	Mrs. Sent, in the third instance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u419	Thirdly and finally, I think it is a good commitment to get a look at the process and the timing in that process. So I look forward to that letter with interest. Then I will consult with the co-subsidiaries to determine whether we will hold the motion or not. I would also like to point out to the Minister that the situation in municipalities is very complex.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u420	I don't know anything about that. I don't know what you're talking about. Mr President, if I have not disturbed the order of duty further, I am at the motion under letter V of Mr Koffeman. He has already had a success with a motion on biomass plants, but I must advise against this motion in this form. In my opinion, this is simply contrary to the climate agreement. The cabinet has already promised that the government will not issue any new grant decisions for wood aid in coal-fired power stations. So even the Christmas tree that Mr Vendrik and I are trying to rig up, we will not try to push into it. Mr. Chairman. I'll be at the motion under W.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u421	Before all kinds of Christmas trees are set on fire here, because we have bad experiences with this here in The Hague: it is true that the motion that has been adopted was about the co-incineration of wood in coal plants. The main problem addressed here is that the next step is likely to be to convert these coal-fired power stations to 100% wood-fired power stations. The Minister has been working very intensively here today, but on the other side today, with broad support, a motion has been adopted in which the Chamber says: let us avoid hundreds of small biomass plants being built up unbridled. Perhaps the Minister could take that into account. 100% biomass power plants are going to cause serious problems. In fact, it would be a good thing for the Minister if he could take note of this with a little more attention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u422	It has my great attention, but it almost sounds like Mr Koffeman actually says: given what happened in the House of Representatives, this motion is superfluous.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u423	No, that is by no means the case. The House of Representatives calls for 'no proliferation of biomass plants'. I make it concrete by saying: do not release new SDE+ schemes on biomass plants. So I'm giving you an instrument to make sure that this proliferation doesn't arise that the House of Representatives doesn't want to create. But certainly not that these motions are similar or that one motion makes the other motion superfluous.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u424	I would almost say 'that's a pity', but that's clear as day. For the record, not all biomass subsidies within the SDE are on this subject. More forms of biomass energy generation are possible within the SDE. I would also like to refer to my previous reply and would like to stress the success of Mr Koffeman's previous motion on this subject in this House. Then there is Mr Koffeman's motion with letter W on the nitrogen crisis. I do not want to step on his toes, of course, but I would like to say that there are no taboos. The cabinet has repeatedly said this through the Minister for Agriculture. The cabinet is, I might say, really day and night, in the weather to do everything, everything, to solve the problem of nitrogen as adequately as possible. But if I see what is in the operative part and in part in the preamble to this motion, then I must advise against it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u425	The cabinet is indeed day and night in the weather: during the day 100 km/h and at night 130 km/h. This is about a small percentage of the nitrogen gain that can be achieved. It's really about nothing when it compares to the 46% that livestock farming takes. This means that there are de facto taboos. We are fishing in a very small pond, I do like fishing, but not fishing, and I think there is a lot more profit to be gained from livestock farming. The Minister knows that too, but he also knows how sensitive that is in the coalition. He knows that there is one coalition partner who has said that livestock farming can be halved. That is where they are biting their teeth day and night, but it is no reason for me to say: let us continue that taboo in the opinion on this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u426	With all due respect for Mr Koffeman's reflections, even as regards how the various parties would be or would not be in it, and regardless of how satisfied he is with 100 km/h versus 130 km/h, I must say that the directors involved were very explicit. They have also said that it is a measure which alone does not solve the problem of nitrogen, but which allows us to buy time, because it is one of the few measures that has a very short-term effect. I really must have said that, because otherwise there would be misunderstandings in the debate, and that is the last thing I would like. I would also like to say to Mr Koffeman that there are no taboos as far as I am concerned. That goes for the whole cabinet. Mr Otten's motions were primarily addressed to the Secretary of State. A debate often begins and ends with comments made by Mr Van Rooijen. I come to the motion on the Committee of Experts and the method of calculating interest rates. That's the motion with letter AA. Given everything that we have exchanged so far, it will not surprise Mr Van Rooijen that I must discourage this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u427	You have sometimes discussed the previous motions in detail and even debated them with the author, but you simply say that you are not advising her. Can you explain that? I might have expected it, but I would like to know why and not just hear: I betray her. Then I can file ten. They'll dissuade all ten of them. Then we'll be done in two seconds.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u428	The first reason was that, if I may put it this way, I used the heart of my first term to deal with this problem. Second, I looked at the clock. Mr Van Rooijen is of course right. Even Mr. Koffeman can go home at 130 km/h, so we can talk a little more. For the record, Mr Van Rooijen has suggested that I repeat his request to Mr Koolmees. That's what I'm gonna do. I cannot accept this request because there is a great deal going on in the pension file. Mr Van Rooijen is always there until the very last stand. As a cabinet, together with the social partners, we are implementing the pension agreement and, at least for now, we have fixed the difficult problems of today by giving ourselves a year more time to do so. Furthermore, I believe that I have done everything, even beyond what was reasonable, to get an adequate response as a provisional conclusion, certainly not as a final conclusion, of the dozens of debates that Mr Van Rooijen and I have had on this subject alone, with mutual satisfaction, is my impression.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u429	The Minister has undoubtedly recognized the modesty of this motion. An examination by experts is requested. That's about the softest variant of a little push in the right direction. He'll probably take that. He made a comment about the Minister's letter this afternoon, which indeed gives a year's rest on the front, although no one really knows for how long. I believe that a year's time-out will give us an opportunity to put that committee of experts to work in peace. Perhaps the Minister could take that further evidence, if necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u430	Let's get this straight. I do not recommend this motion, but if Mr Koolmees comes to a different conclusion on the same subject in one of the debates which he too will be delighted to have with Mr Van Rooijen, then Mr Koolmees is quite free to give the motion a different opinion. With this I thought I'd come to the end of my second term. Thank you once again and thank you very much for the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u431	Thank you, Minister. I now give the floor to the Secretary of State for Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u432	Mr. Chairman. I already filed a motion this afternoon that received letter Q. I would also like an answer from the Minister. All the media are asking "how long?" tonight. We said two years this afternoon, forward-looking. Does the Minister intend to contact the cabinet in any way, and in particular his most involved colleague?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u433	If I fail Mr Van Rooijen, I will have him on the microphone in five minutes with the next push in the right direction. I believe that I have already promised to do what I am prepared to do in the discussion that I will undoubtedly have with Mr Koolmees next Friday. I'll act as a delivery hatch, as a carrier pigeon. If Mr Koolmees asks me for my own views, I will give them. They will be in line with the appreciation of the motion on letter Q: dissuade. In fact, it is the discretionary power of the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment to apply, under 'exceptional economic conditions', I believe that this is how the Pension Act provides for the use of an art grip, as has been communicated today. The cabinet, in the person of the Minister of SWZ, has deliberately chosen for one year. I really mean what I said: to say right now that two years is better is premature and not sensible. I really think Mr Van Rooijen should change that with Minister Koolmees. I would also like to ask Mr Van Rooijen for some understanding of the step taken by the cabinet, because a year really is a good time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u434	This afternoon we also had an exchange of views with our colleagues. One of the colleagues said: it is one year, but next year it could be another year longer. My point is actually that the exceptional situation that now leads to one year implies that if that situation continues, I assume that the interest rate will remain low or fall even further, the one year on the autopilot will be extended to two years. I am not going to discuss this now, but the root cause of the low interest rate is reason to freeze it for one year. If the exceptional situation lasts longer, it actually automatically leads to two years. Let me just say that. My concern is that now 11 million people know that if it is not extended, the sword of Damocles will fall at the end of next year. There will then be large discounts for ABP, Care and Welfare and the two metal pension funds. We are talking about 8 million workers and 3 million pensioners. I don't want to do that uncertainty to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u435	The Pension Act offers a specific escape for the Minister of SZW, but his argumentation and his legal basis are more than subtlely different from how Mr Van Rooijen has just said it here. That means that I must discourage this motion and also that, should it be so, it is up to Minister Koolmees to take it back in a small year's time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u436	Then I will give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u437	Mr. Chairman. I had four motions, in addition to what the Minister has just put forward. I would also like to comment on Mr Koffeman's motion on import and export figures. I think it's important to make that clear. I shall begin with the motion under letter S of Mr Vendrik and others on the Ekvs. I had already said something about that at the beginning. Suppose the Netherlands would run very ahead with an ekv and say: we don't do anything for fossil anymore. If we were the only country, we would know that every other foreign company will get insurance for the same export credit product and a Dutch company will not. You can choose for that, but we have said that we consider a certain level playing field important in export credits. That is why we are always trying to do these kinds of initiatives at European level. That is why we in Europe say that we need to be more greening. For example, I opened a conference. We need to focus on innovative projects in the transition. We do a lot of that. This motion is actually asking to stop giving insurance at once for all investments related to fossil. That's a bridge going too far. It wouldn't be effective either, because it would go through other ekvs. Moreover, I can imagine that we will be there in the long term. For example, we have also excluded coal from it. So in the future it might not be a crazy idea, but for now it's really a bridge going too far. That's why I have to discourage the motion. Then I come to Mr Koffeman's motion under letter X on youngtimers. I have just had the import and export data of the RVO requested, just to be sure. Over the last four years, you will see that both imports and exports are increasing somewhat. For example, in the last measured year, 2019, 1,159 electric cars were imported and 1,039 were exported. Net imports, in particular the cheaper and smaller models, and exports of the more expensive ones. By the way, it is not such a thing that it became a bit unclear that there is another treatment in addition in the youngtimer scheme for diesel or petrol. It is also not the case that another year is used. Mr Koffeman is right that there are no electric cars at the moment. The motion still assumes that this is a kind of tax incentive and that you should also use that tax incentive for electric cars that are more than a few years old. I was just trying to explain why that was a little wrong. The motion was surprising in itself, because it was said in the first recital that this has increased explosively in recent years because of tax regulations. You're actually saying that we've stimulated a lot of electric cars. We all think of the well-known Outlander models. We've done too much of that. Now we're afraid those cars will disappear, and that's why we're going to boost them fiscally again. We have also discussed this quite explicitly in the context of the Climate Agreement. We have talked about regulations to keep electric cars on the subsidy side, but fiscally we see no reason to do so. The effect is, again, that there is no tax incentive. The foundation is very small. On balance, I do not think it does as much if we respond to Mr Koffeman's wish. For the three reasons mentioned, I really advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u438	The netting that the Secretary of State is talking about is not related to the substance of my motion. My motion says that after five years, business drivers are encouraged to export their cars. Small cars are much more driven by private individuals. Much less than business drivers, they have to deal with the fact that in year six, seven and then a completely different tax regime. Business drivers have reason to export their cars. Private and smaller cars are in fact subject to a very different system. The Secretary of State's statement that there is no difference in treatment is factually incorrect. The addition for an electric car is a car that emits less nitrogen, or in this case no nitrogen - is 17% of the daily value. In other cars, namely petrol and diesel cars, that is 35%. So there is definitely another regulation for electric cars. But there are no electric cars that are 15 years old or older.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u439	I'm sorry, but that's really not right. I would advise Mr Koffeman to look at the regulation one more time. It would also be special if we had an arrangement for cars that do not yet exist. Well, that's not the case. There is no difference in the scheme between diesel and petrol cars aged 15 and over. There's no difference in age. It's all about 15 years and over. There's no difference in the addition. It's 35% of the daily value. Once again, quite apart from this discussion: on balance, the request to exclude diesel cars. That is not what we want. So we do not want an additional tax incentive for electric cars over five years old. We have also just indicated that this is not necessary, because these electric cars do find deduction in the Netherlands at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u440	Finally, if I'm lying, I'm lying on commission. The ANWB, the largest automobile club in the Netherlands, says this. Anyway, I'm gonna check it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u441	I'd love to. Then I come to two motions by Mr Otten. The motion on letter Y proposes to increase the general tax discount somewhat. We have to deny a motion more often because it's uncovered. This uncovered check went up to a little over 7 billion. So you will understand that I must discourage this motion for that reason alone. Then we come to the motion on letter Z. It's about fees. Or would you like to comment on the previous motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u442	7.2 billion, to be exact.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u443	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u444	I had also made that calculation, with 926 million per €100. This is partly thanks to Mr Van Rooijen, who is extremely good at this. You, Mr Hoekstra and Mr Wiebes are going to invest 50 billion in an extremely vague fund and borrow money for it, even though you do not even know what you are going to do with it. I hear about artificial intelligence, innovation, research and development and education. I've heard 20 different things about what's gonna happen to that 50 billion. That is why I say: we will find cover by subtracting that 7.2 billion from the 50 billion for that uncovered fund of yours. Apparently, that can be financed. So that money should not go to that vague fund, where politicians are all going to hand out money and we can now talk interestingly about governance. That money must be returned to the citizen, where it has come from in recent years. That's why I'm not going along with your reasoning.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u445	I would like to believe that you are or are not going along with the reasoning, but it is an uncovered cheque of 7 billion. Your argument is: you are going to write yourself a much more uncovered cheque. You don't know that yet. The Minister explained in detail what was the idea behind governance, its content and all other issues. We need to be patient before we can make a judgment on that. I see here a motion that the forthcoming Tax Plan already wants to spend 7.2 billion uncovered, and I will therefore discourage it for that reason. Then I come to the motion otten under letter Z. It actually calls for a drastic simplification of the tax system and for consideration to be given to what needs to be done with the surcharges. The motion calls for another investigation. Exactly what you are asking, you might almost say, we have been thinking a long time ago: setting up an ibo about it, the well-known interdepartmental policy research that experts run under the leadership of an independent chairman. That puts all that in the picture. We're already working on that. The first part is already finished and the second part follows in the first quarter. For this reason, I believe that we have already put it into effect sufficiently and this motion is not necessary as far as I am concerned. So I'm gonna try to dissuade him. In my view, that brings me to the end of my term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u446	Thank you, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-19-eerstekamer-8.u447	I propose that we vote on the motions next week. Can the House agree to that? That's the case. This also means that, should anyone consider holding votes, it will only be necessary to decide and publish it next week.
