ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u1	The next item is the debate on the problem of nitrogen. I would like to welcome the Minister of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality, the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State and the Secretary of State for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. I would also like to welcome the people in the public gallery. We are starting this debate with Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks. Speaking time is six minutes. I don't know if there are farmers in the room. Yeah, I hear it. Of course you're also welcome. In debates in this Chamber, you are not meant to show your emotions, however annoying that may be.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u2	Mr. Chairman. We're facing big changes. Everything we used to think was a certainty isn't anymore. All the parties who have maintained that trees are growing into the sky can no longer sustain this, whether it is about the limits that the climate places on economic development, or about nature and the way in which we have affected it in recent years. Mr. Chairman. The nitrogen emissions in the Netherlands are far too high. This Parliament has knowingly contributed to this. I must say, therefore, that I find it quite shocking that the self-appointed farmers' parties, such as the CDA and the VVD, indicate in the protests that there is actually no end to growth and that there will be no huge consequences for the agricultural sector. 'Cause it's gonna happen. And just in this time of great transition, in which we are entering a new era, all of us in parliament demand that we are clear. The message to the livestock and agricultural sectors is that livestock will be reduced, as far as possible, on a voluntary basis. That's what I want: as much as possible. But we can't rule out forced shrinkage either. Mr. Chairman. There's been chaos. Sometimes it seems as if we woke up yesterday and thought: wow, there is a nitrogen problem. No, we've known this for years! Each time, tricks have been devised to get out, such as the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen, under the responsibility of the CDA Secretary of State. Tricks have been invented and since May 29th we know that there is a verdict and that we have to do something. We've asked the Minister questions. Thank you for the answers we received this afternoon. We've asked what happened in the last few months. Is there any way to figure out what the effect is if we bring down the speed on the highways? Has it been mapped which farms should be closed? The answer to these questions is: that is what we are going to find out in the coming months. My first question to the Minister is: what has happened in the last four months? Why do we know so little concretely what measures to take? It is not known how many farmers need to be bought out. It is not known whether enough farmers are being bought out voluntarily or whether there is a need for forced buy-out. It is not known what nature restoration measures are needed. It is not known how much it will cost to solve the nitrogen problem and where the money has to come from. It is also not known whether the provinces can count on the support of this cabinet. It is not known whether the solutions that are now being chosen will stand up legally. Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask the Minister whether it is true that the average latent space in the permits is already 30%. How can the Minister be so sure that enough will happen to get the Netherlands off the lock if only voluntary buy-out is assumed? We are currently in a situation where a number of provinces have withdrawn their nitrogen approach policies under threat of farm violence. An important reason for the pressure on the provinces is the view outlined by the Minister that the policy rules of the provinces are unnecessarily strict. I would like to know how light has arisen between the Minister's cabinet letter and the policy rule introduced by the twelve provinces. That is why I would like to know whether administrative consultations have been held by a ministry with the provinces on the policy rules and the definition to be used for the publication of the letter of inquiry on 4 October. Has this been agreed? Has the Ministry officials been involved in drawing up the provincial policy rules? Did provinces ring the bell when it appeared that the Minister's letter used a broader definition than the policy rule of the provinces? On 10 October, the minister in this Chamber said that the provinces agree that the letter of the minister is leading. But on October 11th, a letter told the members of North Holland that the provincial policy rules are guiding. Why is it one-sidedly stated that the Minister's letter is leading, rather than consulting with the provinces about the difference of opinion? Does the Minister understand that the provinces feel abandoned? As far as I am concerned, the important question of this debate is this: is the Minister going to indicate that the provinces have the room to apply their own policy rules? Is she going to indicate that the provinces not only have the space, but that they also support it as provinces do what is necessary, even though the coalition is divided about it? Mr. Chairman. Let me be clear: I believe that we are at a turning point. A turning point where our agriculture is going to change and where we will go to fewer animals in the Netherlands. But I am also convinced that we cannot just place it on the farmers' plate. Farmers get too low a price for their products. Farmers are in a growth compulsion. They have been forced to grow ever larger in recent years, because otherwise they will not be able to keep their heads above water. If we really want to talk about a smaller herd, then we also need to ensure that farmers get a fair price for their products and that the purchasing power of the large supermarket groups is restricted so that farmers get that fair price. This also means that we have to look at trade agreements differently. This Parliament should not agree with CETA and the cabinet should not agree with Mercosur in the European Council. Mr. Chairman. These are important times. A lot's changing. That requires leadership from all of us. I therefore hope that all the parties here in the Chamber will be honest with the farmers and with the whole of the Netherlands: the livestock is getting smaller.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u3	CETA, Canada, with a President you admired, Mr Trudeau, also in shirt sleeves. But if I tell you now that we have a trade surplus with Canada in the field of agriculture. You say, no, we're not going to do that, while you also want to help the farmers, but don't you put yourself in your shirt?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u4	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u5	Then I can only conclude that it is "Jesse the Jobs runner" that deals with international trade agreements that can deliver something for everyone and within which you can agree on sustainability. Our parties could operate side by side. But also the Treaty of Paris; it is all inclusive. I'd say think about it again, because you're shooting yourself in the foot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u6	No, Mr. De Groot, the world has changed when it comes to the climate, when it comes to the nitrogen crisis, when it comes to how we deal with nature and also when it comes to globalisation. Let us see what these treaties really contribute to our prosperity. If we see what it adds to our economies, then I am not prepared to surrender further sovereignty to that effect. I do not think we need CETA to be able to trade at all; even without CETA we have a fantastic trade relationship with Canada. Without these trade agreements, the Netherlands is still a huge exporting country, and we will continue to be. But in a way, it will also have to be reduced. Someone from D66 who has recently, fortunately, talked so much about climate, will also have to recognise that CETA leads to an increase in CO emissions. Since CETA is active, we do not see a huge increase in exports in the Netherlands when it comes to agricultural products. No, you know who benefits most? The oil industry. Crude oil that we import as the Netherlands from Canada. That's the effect of such a treaty, Mr. De Groot. That is why we must dare to look at this in a broader perspective. These treaties no longer fit in with these times, just as overcrowding is no longer appropriate at this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u7	Finally, Mr De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u8	We agree on the latter, but Mr Klaver leaves a chance here to see with a like-minded, civilised country how we can make our economies more sustainable. This includes sustainable trade.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u9	Thank you, Mr. Clover. I now give the floor to Mr Harbers on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. How the Netherlands has been smart with space for centuries, that was always a complicated puzzle. That's it at least now that 18,000 construction projects have fallen silent. Each project means: no new building house for people waiting for it, no road, no new business, no business expansion and ultimately job losses. We can't afford that for long. For the VVD, farmers are not to blame for the nitrogen problem. Over the past few decades, a great deal has already been asked of farmers and they have already contributed a great deal to solving almost every conceivable environmental problem. They could help solve the problems. In this respect, the Minister said that volunteering is the main concern of the cabinet last week. The best and fastest way to achieve results is to make that really true. For a farmer, it is about the choice between stopping, moving or going on. Now, when it comes to stopping, it is often clear what price he gets, but a lot of farmers want to go on and maybe expand, just how does he pay for it? For example, the investment in a stable system that reduces nitrogen emissions. If you are in favour of such an investment, especially now that banks are pulling out, it soon feels like you're sticking your head in a financial noose. Then you can say it's a voluntary choice, but it won't feel that way. For this reason, any choice must be stopped, moved or continued in the same way generously made financially possible. How does the Minister intend to shape that? How does it include the commitment to quickly clean up obstructive rules for innovations? Only then will any farmer really be able to make a voluntary assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u11	Mr Harbers began his speech by explaining how many projects are now stationary due to the nitrogen crisis. An hour or so ago, we received a joint declaration from the provinces and the minister. It begins with the observation that there has been a good and constructive discussion, so there is a striking argument. But it ends with the prospect that it will not be clear until 1 December, while construction companies, housing corporations and so on are crying out for clarity. Does Mr Harbers agree with me that waiting until 1 December is unacceptable?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u12	I shall come to the clarification that we need in the coming months. The sooner clarity, the better. I suspect that a lot of underlying measures still need to be worked out, so one construction project can be more clear than the other. December 1st sounds far away, but that's in about six weeks. I am going to argue later that we need to know as soon as possible where we stand and how we can proceed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u13	Six weeks is pretty long when you have a construction company with an almost empty wallet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u14	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u15	And complicated... We have 12 provinces, with 12 policies. That's pretty clear. That is less clear than we hoped, we saw last week, but nevertheless it is fairly clear. Then there's no need to wait a month and a half?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u16	No, I also hope it can be faster. That is the task for provinces, in cooperation with the Empire.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u17	I have already seen that the construction companies have said: listen, we may also come up with actions. I want to tell the VVD that the construction guys have much bigger equipment than a couple of tractors. Those machines are really impressive. My question is about the clarity, which the VVD says we should get as soon as possible. I'm curious. We had a hearing yesterday and all kinds of legal experts have said that the plans that are there are legally untenable. I wonder what analyses there might have been in the coalitions, and not in the Chamber, about the legal sustainability of the plans that have now been proposed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u18	None. That is when the measures are put to the cabinet. It is typical of the cabinet's task to ensure that the detailed measures presented later, whether in policy rules or in the announced law which will soon be dealt with in the Chamber, are taken into account in order to ensure that it is legally sustainable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u19	I understand from this that when the Council of State drew a final line through nitrogen policy in May of this year and the coalition started talking at the end of the summer about what decisions it had to take, there was no legal analysis of what we heard yesterday in the hearing: these measures are necessary anyway, otherwise you will be back in court.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u20	We ourselves looked at that statement by the Council of State. He says that a programmatic approach should be allowed on its own, only in this programmatic approach he has considered that you are not achieving sufficient natural recovery. That is not a line through all possible nitrogen measures, at least that is not how I read that statement. It is now up to the cabinet and us as a Chamber to take sensible measures which will also bring construction back on track. If you want to know what happened in May, June, July in the cabinet, in the government, then I suggest that you ask that question to the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u21	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u22	Yes, Chairman, finally. I am asking because Mr Harbers has made a firm statement in the newspaper that you are going to be there on a voluntary basis. Then I wonder as a member of the opposition on which Mr Harbers then bases himself. But I can now conclude that there was no legal basis for this. That's good to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u23	Yeah, but for a concept of volunteering, you don't need legal support. It's about measures. I argue that, if you want to achieve results quickly, you have to make sure that those measures give people a real choice. So they should not be able to choose between A and B while one is much more financially attractive than the other, because then you get implicit guidance on that. I think you'll achieve more with cooperation and cooperation than with bidding and bans.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u24	Mr Harbers of the VVD says that farmers must stop voluntarily. At the same time, he is talking about the need for them to invest in nitrogen installations. In an interview in the newspaper, he talks about air scrubbers and cow toilets. If you're going to force that on farmers, is it crazy that at some point they want to quit voluntarily because of all this misery? So how voluntary is that really? However, Mr President, that is not the question at all, because Mr Harbers has also said in the newspaper: if it is up to the VVD, farmers will not have to keep any less animals. That is striking, because Mr De Groot of D66 does say something else. He says: the livestock must be halved. Two coalition parties are opposed to each other. Then the question to the VVD is: what is it? Where's the VVD? Does the VVD agree with D66 that those livestock should be halved?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u25	The first part of his speech shows that Mr Kops has just listened very carefully to me. I would argue that a farmer's choice must be a fair choice; that must be a voluntary choice. So that has to be a choice... Sometimes farmers want to stop anyway. Then they can opt for an arrangement to stop. But a farmer who absolutely does not want to stop and who may even want to expand must be given a choice that is equivalent in financial terms to the choice to quit. It often takes an investment to be able to continue, to reduce your nitrogen emissions. And that's exactly the argument I made. I see there are ideas everywhere to steer on the number of cattle. But we don't have a cattle problem, we have a nitrogen problem. And then you have to focus on measures that reduce nitrogen emissions. I'm not just saying that. The Minister said last week in the Chamber debate: if you have a stable in which there are so many new techniques that there are no more nitrogen emissions, be my guest, it will also help to solve the nitrogen problem. However, we also have to respond to the investments that are needed for this, because otherwise it is not a fair choice and they are all, as it were, forced by the system to stop, and I do not want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u26	A very long story. Send on cattle. It just wasn't an answer to the question. That question was actually quite simple: does the VVD agree with coalition partner D66 that these livestock should simply be halved? Don't steer or anything; it just needs to be halved: does the VVD agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u27	I just indicated that I don't want the VVD not to send on the number of cattle. Whether that number is halved or whatever. We want to focus on measures that help solve the nitrogen problem, regardless of the number of livestock there is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u28	Finally, Mr. Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u29	We still have no idea where the coalition is right now. Because in an interview with Mr De Groot of D66 in the newspaper, it says: "The livestock must be halved." "Is the coalition behind that? Yes, halving the livestock is the consequence of the cabinet vision." He's also talking about not excluding "we're going to have to shut down businesses." That is what your own coalition partner says, eh: halving the livestock; we need to make that compulsory. Does the VVD agree, yes or no? Is that gonna happen, yes or no?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u30	Fortunately, I see a letter from the cabinet stating that choices must be made voluntarily. And if it is voluntary, then it is quite clear that it cannot be voluntary and an obligation at the same time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u31	Does Mr Harbers see it for himself that there are more animals in the Netherlands and that at the same time nitrogen emissions are going to fall?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u32	Technically, it's possible. Is it gonna happen? I don't want to make any rules here that will tell you later: oh, then it's going to go down or it's going to go up. The amount of livestock we have in the Netherlands over a number of years must be a consequence of choices that farmers can make voluntarily. We know there are farmers who want to stop. That's what happened in the last few months. That's what's happened in the past few years. Yeah, on those farms, the numbers of cattle will be reduced. But there are also farmers who want to expand. And at the moment when they can do that in a way that still reduces nitrogen emissions and helps them to do that, in these investments, we will see in a number of years how many pieces of cattle that leads. That could be less, that could in theory be more. It is not something that I think we should have rules here that will force a certain number of people to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u33	Does Mr Harbers seriously believe this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u34	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u35	Is this a serious argument? I remember very well the debate on the PAS, the Programmatic Approach to Nitrogen. That was about the same thing. Then the VVD also said this: it's not about animals, we have no animal problem; no, it's about a nitrogen problem; we can grow on. Look where we are! Look where we are now! Exactly this setup! In recent years, politics has said: no, no, the problem is not the number of animals; we are going to solve it with technology. It's not solved. And we can't move on now. Construction cannot continue, farmers are in uncertainty and Mr Harbers is really standing here with dry eyes claiming that the livestock in the Netherlands does not have to shrink. Mr President, that cannot be sustained. I think it is our responsibility as politicians to take the lead now and to indicate that those livestock should indeed go down. And if we agree on that, then we can talk to each other about how we do it in a social way, so that we do not allow farmers to suffer financially.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u36	I fully agree with the latter, which does not allow farmers to suffer financially. But what's before that... There are people who run their own farm with heart and soul, who have been in the family for generations. You would rather not hear that the only thing that is available to you is a good clean-up scheme, a good buy-up scheme, while you yourself have all kinds of plans in mind about how you could have continued that company in a healthy, forward-looking way, where you will only have to invest in it. I maintain here that there is no point in sending whatever you want to do with the livestock and how you want to reduce it. I do not rule out the fact that, as a result of all the decisions that each farmer may make individually in the years to come, the number of head of livestock goes down. But at the moment when a farmer says that with the same number of livestock, or perhaps more, he can still reduce nitrogen emissions as the obstacles imposed by the government, but go away, for example, regulation banning some of the new techniques or regulation behind which new innovations cannot be introduced, and if there is also, as the Cabinet announces, a good investment regime, that will automatically lead to a conclusion in a number of years' time. What has happened: have more or less cattle come? But I'm not gonna send for that in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u37	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u38	It is not our job as politicians to tell what people want to hear, but it is our job to tell the truth. Of course it's not nice to tell farmers that their business might have to close. The farmers I meet do their work with heart and soul, often for many generations. But the reality we're living in now is that if we don't get fewer animals in the Netherlands, we won't be able to build houses, that the Netherlands won't be able to continue, that our nature won't recover. That is why I would like to say to all the farmers who are watching now: don't believe what the VVD says! Don't believe we shouldn't go to fewer animals. The only solution we have is that we get fewer animals in the Netherlands. And the only thing we as politicians can promise is that we will do everything we can to ensure that they do not suffer financially. But every other promise is false.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u39	The truth is that we have a nitrogen problem to solve with measures that reduce nitrogen. That's nitrogen. That's not animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u40	I know the VVD as a party with elected representatives who speak clear language. But here I hear Mr Harbers talking with flour in his mouth. He's making an attempt to throw sand in everyone's eyes and soothe them to sleep. The title of the Remkes report was crystal clear: not everything is possible. The flight in technical measures started 30 years ago, but did not lead to the desired result. Is it fair to give the impression that you can solve the problem without steering on animal numbers?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u41	I'd like to turn it around. Is it fair to say that we are going to force it all? 'Cause see what happens. We have a very urgent nitrogen problem to solve. At the moment when you do not have good arrangements for that, those farmers take them and with which you submit a voluntary choice to them that is financially equivalent, all heels go in the sand. Then we have not made a gram of nitrogen gain in the coming year and those construction projects also remain stationary. Then I guess there's a lot of lawsuits going on for a long time. This problem is too urgent for that. Hence my plea to say: meet farmers generously, whatever the choice they want to make. Some people don't want anything. They just have a company and don't need a new license. Others are perhaps best to speak about the ability to move. Others want to stop again. But also make it possible for those who want to continue in a way that they emit less nitrogen. Otherwise, the next year will lead to nothing at all. Just then you keep the construction locked for another year or so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u42	Mr. Harbers revolves around the hot knit. He says it must be voluntary and there must be proper arrangements for farmers. Everyone in this house agrees. What matters, and that was my core question, is whether this problem is soluble without reducing animal numbers, without removing the so-called point sources in the nature reserves. That's what the Remkes Committee recommends. My question to Mr Harbers is clear: does he renounce the Remkes Committee's opinion, or does he embrace it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u43	Mr Remkes also says: do this very area-oriented. Then you may encounter a number of situations. Then maybe you'll find a farm somewhere where you'll think: why don't we talk sometime and see if we can solve this problem here? I don't think that's the only choice: okay, you're in the way and willingly or willingly, we're gonna buy you up. We should also consider whether there is an option for such a farm to invest in technology at such a time. Mr Moorlag is pretending that nothing has happened technically at all, but over the past few decades there has been a great deal of technology, especially with air scrubbers and everything that makes a stable less nitrogen emissions so much, that I think we can still go through with that. The problem is that these techniques are often expensive. The problem is that government regulation often gets in the way. Well, that happens to be two problems the government can solve.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u44	If the technique had worked, it would never have come to this. Mr Harbers knows that, so other measures are needed. I also note that he does not distance himself from the report of the Remkes Committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u45	I note that the report by the Remkes Committee is probably much more nuanced than Mr Moorlag has suggested here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u46	I would advise Mr Harbers to read the report, because it contains very clear things about livestock. There are also very clear things about politicians who delay difficult decisions. It's better if you listen to what Remkes said at the press conference. I really have to say: I am stunned, not least because I now feel forced to defend the interests of building the Netherlands in front of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u47	I'm gonna do that myself later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u48	The whole country's watching us. The whole country is looking at us, and Mr. Harbers says, "Yes, we're going to see where we stand with the number of cattle in a few years." That's impossible, isn't it? We can't wait for years, can we? That pile of permit applications and projects stays high. Something's got to happen now, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u49	Sure, and that's exactly why I'm talking. Just because something has to happen doesn't make sense to put everyone in your armor. That is exactly what farmers are afraid of now. That is exactly what companies in other sectors are still afraid of. And just when you want to get a quick result, you don't have to run after people with the stick, but you have to hold a carrot. I think that works better and works easier when all the possible choices a farmer can make to help solve the problem are financially equivalent. It should not be the case that the choice to stop being financially much more attractive than the choice to move, but above all as the choice to continue and perhaps expand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u50	I am going to try, because I am going to step into Mr Harbers' alternative reality. I mean, there's no expert to be found who says we can do it without shrinking livestock. Anyway, let's say it can be done with technical measures and we're going to help farmers solve that. Show me where in the cabinet letter is the money for that extra money! There is nothing, there are only existing jars that stand among themselves. The cabinet doesn't pay an extra euro for it. How are you gonna do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u51	The letter states that the cabinet will set up a budget reserve for additional measures. That is exactly below the existing jars in the list. So I am putting forward a proposal for additional measures because I think you are organizing the solution and the cooperation of farmers, if you use it well, much faster than if you keep yelling: we are not going to talk to you at all, because your livestock needs to be halved. Then all the heels go in the sand, and that's not gonna lead to anything, is it? Then nothing will happen next year and the construction will wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u52	Finally, Mr. Fuzzler.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u53	Mr De Groot's statement must really be addressed by Mr De Groot, but I am sure he will be speaking later, and you may do so. The letter says: if necessary we come with extra money. If Mr. Harbers says "I think it's necessary," come up with extra money. Don't wait, because waiting is exactly the problem. We don't have time to discuss, argue with each other and argue with the provinces! We have to act now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u54	Exactly. Exactly that. The letter says "if necessary." I think everyone is convinced that there is a lot to be done. That is precisely why I say that it is necessary to make good arrangements to ensure that farmers have a voluntary choice between all possible options, because this will help them to solve this problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u55	This is worrying, because it seems that yesterday the VVD simply did not listen to the intrusive opinions of the legal experts. I would remind the VVD that, over the past fifteen or twenty years, they have always been right. If politics said, "Well, this is possible," then legal experts came to the Chamber with advice and said, "Well, we don't think it's legally sustainable." On the ammonia testing framework and the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen, politics actually said what Mr Harbers said today: well, but we think it is. And who finally won in court? The people we heard yesterday! I think it's good to listen to what they're saying for once, to keep us from going back to court. Mr Harbers says here: farmers are not fast enough. Then I wonder why the VVD doesn't choose to go back to 100 km/h throughout the Netherlands, because the analysis is that you then at least free up important construction projects.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u56	That last analysis: we still do not have the data from that analysis that shows what you are doing with it. So far, all the analyses I have seen say that traffic only makes a small contribution, especially if you do so across the country. Where traffic can make a difference, it is in or close to Natura 2000 sites. That is a measure which is also contained in the Cabinet letter. When you look VVDs in the heart, you see that our heart does not immediately miss a beat of that through joy, but we also take it for the sake of the solution. We just want real measures everywhere that really help to solve the nitrogen problem and not symbolic measures that will only put everyone, farmers, residents, car drivers and anyone else in the armor, without saving one more building permit the next day.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u57	Finally. Does the VVD acknowledge that you may want it slowly, but that it is the legal reality that you must act now? If we choose the route of the VVD, the whole country will be shut down for another year. Does the VVD recognise that this is the consequence of the judge's ruling, because it has cut the policy? It was against the law and you have to do something now. You can choose not to, but then the consequence is that it stays still. Does the VVD at least get that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u58	You have to do three things. You have to listen carefully to what the judge said. And he said, invest in accelerated nature recovery. I'm gonna get tight on that. Two, you need to shape the measures you're taking so that they can be introduced quickly, because people are getting on it fast. And then it is up to the cabinet that I agree with Mrs Ouwehand to ensure that every measure you take is also legally well-founded, so that it stays in court. That is no longer possible with the programmed approach we had, but it must be possible at individual project level with the good measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u59	A brief question from Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u60	As a result of the consultations with the provinces, the Minister indicated that more than one month until December is needed in order to implement the further approach. When I hear Mr Harbers, I wonder whether we should give that time. Mr Harbers says no to almost everything. The question I would like to put to Mr Harbers is: does the Minister have the space to propose and take all the necessary measures, including possibly the compulsory closing of stables?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u61	The Minister has the room to propose measures to help solve the problem. I believe that the cabinet is in the right direction in saying: you cannot arrange it in a single area of pens for the whole country; for that, you have to look at what is going on in each area and how you can pull things off there. That is information that must first be put on the table and that must be regulated, in particular, from the provinces and in all these areas. But I think it is very stupid to give carte blanche here, and that is something Mr Klaver would not want to take in advance, but to take every measure without being familiar with it. For me, the most important point is that I want to talk about measures aimed at solving the problem, and not about measures that may seem nice for one or the other, but which do not bring any building permits closer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u62	The last one is an open door. That is already being repeated for the fifteenth time tonight. I'm asking this question for a reason. The Minister states: we are still not here; we are going to take the time until 1 December. I have doubts about that, but if that is really necessary, then I say: okay, then that space has to be there. But we already know that, in order to really comply with the rules, we will have to close down companies that are close, for example, to certain natural areas. And we don't know at all if people want to do that voluntarily. That means that provinces must have the space to decide on expropriation. The answer to this question is very relevant to know: is Mr Harbers prepared to accept all these matters as well? If he does not want to do so, then we should stop giving this minister time until 1 December.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u63	This also applies to... By the way, I think it may take longer for some measures to be taken. We also have a big problem, but I will say something about that later. I believe that the Minister should base himself on the information she will receive by area-based approach. That's information I don't think we have at the moment. That trial just started. I am not going to say in advance that some measures must or must not be taken somewhere. I am saying that if it is the solution in an area to see if a farm can be relocated, and if there are no people there who have a business that they have long said they would like to stop, a generous offer must be put on the table for that too. Because if there isn't, then the heels go in the sand and you won't reach anything in that area in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u64	This is exactly what feeds distrust in the Netherlands, farmers and citizens, all people. The VVD, which has a very big mouth and says: perhaps more animals need to be added and we are not going to have to close down. But you too cannot rule out the compulsory closure of stables! This problem is so big and so comprehensive that no option can be ruled out. I would like the VVD to pronounce that as the largest party in this country, to accept its responsibility, and say: we will do everything necessary to restore nature in the Netherlands and get construction back on track, including closing down those stables, even if it is mandatory.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u65	I think I can only conclude that Mr Klaver and I feel differently. And besides, I think that if you arrive now with all the obligations and all the high-ranking things, in the vein of "you have to get out of here," without having thought carefully about how to seduce a farmer instead of passing by with "you have to get out of here and otherwise we don't have anything for you at all," that's not gonna work. I just don't think it's gonna work. I think we'll just exacerbate the problems. We need measures to seduce people now and to get them with, because only then will we achieve some space again. Another concern is that farmers who do not want to stop and want to expand can no longer get enough animal or phosphate rights, even if they are perhaps in an area where there is no Natura 2000 area at all. Last week, the Minister warned about what she called 'wildwest actions', namely that farms are bought up by parties with very deep pockets, after which the animal rights are no longer there for the farmers they would have liked to take over. She said: we need to prevent all kinds of side effects from happening, the consequences of which we cannot properly oversee or absorb. How's the Minister gonna do that? What does it consider to be undesirable in this context? Many questions in society are about skimming in this context. How is this skimming going to work in this context? From the many examples we received, I take one. A farmer with a dairy farm bought €6,000 in ammonia duty in 2013 and 2014. During the introduction of phosphate rights, in 2015, he was confronted with a creaming of phosphate rights, i.e. cows, of 8%. Now, in 2019, he wants to modernise and expand the stable, for which he has already invested in ammonia space. The letter brings him into uncertainty. Is space he invested in being taken away from him? What about its legal sustainability? It is one of many examples. The question is when the Minister can clarify these situations and many dozens of other situations. The implementation of the measures will not be regulated overnight. I estimate that there will also be a discussion or what will be needed with the provinces, so I would like to begin by asking for clarification on the moments when the cabinet will know more. Can the Minister give us a timetable for that? When will the measure be ready? When do we have another threshold? When and where can which type of projects go forward? And so what happens to the nitrogen space that becomes available? How is the progress of wealthy projects secured, because they call on the same nitrogen space as local and provincial projects? What exactly is the mission of the sovereigns in that? Can the cabinet also comment on the emergency call from the construction industry? If, for example, the area-based approach takes a number of months or the threshold is still waiting for months, how does the cabinet plan to bridge the intermediate period for construction?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u66	I suggest you complete your contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u67	I have two more topics, Mr. Chairman. The best source measure is, of course, restoration in the Natura 2000 sites. The cabinet wants to speed this up, and it wants to support it financially. I think that's a very good intention. My question to the Minister is whether she can guarantee that money will be used where it really is needed, i.e. on the conservation targets that stem directly from the Birds and Habitats Directives, and not on additional wish nature. Fortunately, the Minister said last week that she would check whether and where the Netherlands is doing more than is prescribed by Brussels. Finally, Mr President. Much has been said about the measurement system and the calculation models in recent weeks. The Chamber adopted two motions for resolutions on this matter the day before yesterday. Will the Minister indicate at what rate the requested improvements will be worked at? Mr. Chairman. The whole nitrogen problem is urgent and comprehensive. There is no time to lose in this, and so I would like to repeat this once again, in order to do so together with all sectors and to ensure measures that can seduce citizens and entrepreneurs, rather than now coming up with all kinds of commandments and bans. 'Cause I'm afraid if we do that last thing, we're gonna lose a lot more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u68	Thank you. Mrs. Ouwehand, short interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u69	I actually thought I had already had my interruptions at the VVD, but I was just literally in my hair when Mr Harbers existed to read a case from a farmer who has invested and is now confronted with measures after that had already happened. The VVD has to say that this is because the VVD keeps saying: go and invest slowly, because it will be fine. However, all the opinions have constantly pointed out to us that this investment did not fit in with the space for nature and the environment. This is exactly the game! Farmers rightly say: now I have invested in this low-emission stable floor and now it is not enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u70	And your question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u71	The VVD must recognise that this is the result of the policy it has pursued and supported over the last 20 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u72	If the question is whether Mrs Ouwehand's VVD should acknowledge something, the answer is no. No, farmers have always operated within the rules, rules we have adopted here. It is not just a VVD idea, but a good system, which has finally been adopted here with a large majority of the Chamber and through which the judge has crossed a line. That sucks. But it is not the case that farmers are blamed for this, because it was already the solution to what I mentioned at the beginning of my speech. In this country, we have had to bribe every square metre of space for centuries. We have also become very good at this, better than anywhere else in the world. And yes, we have now hit a wall. But that doesn't mean we're gonna have to say it's all the VVD's fault. On the contrary, solutions must now be found. I am here doing hand-outs for solutions that can actually tempt people to cooperate and that do not lead to all heels going into the sand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u73	But this is just not fair to the farmers. It is true that, on the proposal of the VVD, livestock farming was allowed to continue to go beyond the environmental limits. The Court of Auditors informed the Chamber of that last time. At the Court of Auditors it was said: yes, it is quite exceptional that you are going to conduct an investigation on the same subject every time, but it seems that agriculture has to do so. When you cross those environmental boundaries, you have to come up with rules that drive farmers crazy all the time. So I hope the Minister will pay attention, because if you play this same game now and give the VVD its way, that party will later come up with crying letters from farmers who suffer from it. You create rule, rule, rule, rule, rule, because you're not willing to deal with the problems at the source. It's just not fair that the VVD doesn't tell you that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u74	Mrs. Ouwehand, this is just a statement, not a question. Interrupts must be really short. I didn't want to limit it now, and I also think there should be all the room to interrupt. But if every interruption is initiated by a long story, I'm afraid that... This doesn't just apply to you, you know. Many people are following this debate and I think a lot of people would like to know what the cabinet thinks about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u75	Mr President, you are right. But in view of the huge social protest, I wanted to say this. I'll keep it a little shorter with another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u76	I'll hold you to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u77	And if the question was whether the VVD agrees with the Party for Animals, the answer is no.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u78	It is also very good to give a short answer. Mr. Funtselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u79	Mr President, fortunately you know me as a concise person.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u80	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u81	If I have heard correctly, Mr Harbers said that the funding for Natura 2000 sites should be specifically used for conservation purposes. My short question is: what money?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u82	In four or five places in the letter it says: if money is needed to improve nature, then so be it. The cabinet might be thinking about putting money in it. That, I think, can be very real, in order to try to deal with that recovery of nature as quickly as possible. My appeal is: make sure that money does exactly what we need, namely focused on what the Birds and Habitats Directives require of us. That is the most important contribution, which not only solves the legal problem, but also helps to actually restore nature in the places where it is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u83	Then I can be for Mr Harbers' sake. There are also parties who try to come up with solutions. There is a wonderful amendment to the agricultural budget for extra money for nature, to begin with. I would be happy to amend that amendment by specifying that it should be used for conservation purposes in Natura 2000. Can I count on the support of the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u84	I do not know the amendment, but it seems that there is a good cooperation ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u85	Well, well, well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u86	That is wonderful, because I would appreciate it if the largest party in this Chamber, in a file where the whole country is locked, would come up with something more concrete than asking for a timeline.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u87	Thank you, Mr. Harbers. I now give the floor to Mr Geurts on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u88	Mr. Chairman. There are many entrepreneurs who say that it is unclear what is coming towards them and who are worried that their agricultural environment will be bought up. We've heard agricultural holdings working on a future for their business, saying they're getting choked off. They are concerned about the unequal playing field in the Netherlands. The CDA wants to spare latent space for ongoing companies and does not want to accumulate discounts or skimmings. The CDA wants development space for ongoing businesses and wants sufficient phosphate and animal rights for them to remain available. My question is whether the Minister is going to take this into account in the policy she needs to further develop. Mr. Chairman. All sectors such as aviation, mobility, industry, etc. should contribute. From the point of view of construction, I am told that permits for housing are still a problem: already 300,000 homes are short and demand is increasing. According to Article 22 of the Constitution, the government has a duty of care. One question I have to ask: would it be possible to launch the plans contained in the residential deals via a generic ADC test? I ask the Minister of LNV and the Secretary of State for the Interior and Kingdom Relations. It is also very important for housing, but also for other projects, to have a threshold for licensing, as in Flanders, Denmark and Germany. This now requires an ecological basis. I ask the Minister: have the first talks been held to implement the CDA and VVD motion adopted last Tuesday? Mr. Chairman. An excess of nitrogen compounds in the environment is harmful to the health of people, to nature and to our lives on this earth. The nitrogen dossier is complex, both in nature, legal and social. We face challenges to protect nature, but also to enable economic activities, such as new housing construction, new barn systems, sustainability, etc. Area approach and customisation seem to be the only solution to the current legal impasse. An area approach will require a lot of stakeholders, as these are not rapid processes. Mr. Chairman. I'm noticing that there are enormous uncertainties about whose nitrogen is true. Uncertainties of emissions are 25% and from the deposition on nature reserves to 70%. It is therefore that I tabled a motion to improve the measurements and have the calculation model of the RIVM scientifically validated. Can the Minister indicate how she is going to implement the motion on these two points? Besides, it can't be that someone gets a permit that they can lose again, with all the uncertainties of that. Mr. Chairman. We are on the right track in the Netherlands. The nitrogen deposition in nature areas has fallen considerably, partly due to agriculture, which has reduced ammonia emissions by over 60% since 1990. A big compliment to our farmers. Finally, Mr President. I'm struggling with a dilemma. In the Netherlands, industrial sites with large blocks on them, roads and housing are increasing and agricultural land is declining. We are all contributing to this intensification of agriculture. The CDA wants the purchased agricultural land to be re-used for continued farming in the area. Is the Minister prepared to take this into account in the formulation of its policy? The CDA also believes that the Minister and provinces should focus on a uniform investment and emission reduction timetable policy. Mr President, most importantly, let us keep a warm heart for the agricultural sector and keep our heads down in the further discussion on the nitrogen dossier.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u89	The RIVM calculation model is internationally scientifically validated, several times. But that's not why I'm here. At the beginning of his speech, I think Mr Geurts said that he was against skimming. Now, in my opinion, the nitrogen letter states that in the case of external salads, there is implicit skimming. Did I not fully understand something or does the CDA not support that part of the letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u90	Mr Futselaar did not quite hear that right. I told you, I don't want a bunch of discounts and skimmings.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u91	Then that's clear, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u92	From the book, the chairman would like to say. I have often heard Mr Geurts say 'it is not just farmers, it is not only agriculture', but we know that there is going to be an enormous deposition of that agriculture. They're about 40% responsible. My question is about air traffic, which Mr Geurts has just mentioned. If he says everyone has to contribute, does that mean that the CDA is finally going to turn against the expansion to Lelystad Airport?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u93	That's a very nice question. That's what I was expecting. Here's what's important. We now have Remkes I. Remkes II is about fertilizing and grazing. Then, if I understand correctly, you get Remkes III about, for example, aviation and also inland waterway transport. I think that is very important input, a building block to continue the discussion. But Mr Klaver has heard me very well: all sectors will contribute. But I think we're going to pursue that discussion when Remkes III is available.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u94	I think we should have that discussion with each other now. I don't know if you've noticed, but the whole country is in turmoil. Farmers don't know what happens to them. They're afraid they're the only ones who have to pay the price. And what is our answer to those farmers? What's your answer? Well, somewhere in the spring, in May, we're gonna talk about Lelystad again. No, we need to have that discussion now. We don't necessarily need Remkes' report, because we know how much nitrogen is emitted there. So shouldn't we just conclude that, if you're really so good with those farmers, you shouldn't just say "we don't touch your animals; it's all voluntary" but that you should really do something by saying "you know what, we won't let Lelystad continue"? That would be fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u95	Before Mr Klaver walks away in a moment, I would like to respond to that point of good intentions with farmers. I hear GroenLinks say the same: I am good for farmers, and of course I have to be paid for it. But I would remind Mr Klaver how his party dealt with mink farming. There was a chilly clean-up there. GroenLinks, I think, stands for a chilly clean-up. They say they want to handle the livestock business nicely, but if GroenLinks is in power and controls it, then it will be a cold cleanup. Then again the answer to the question: aviation comes in turn, all sectors have to contribute, but we are waiting for Remkes III.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u96	Finally, Mr President. That's good. Then you're a farmer and you think, "The CDA is my party. I hear Mr Geurts talking so nicely about farming. He says that it is indeed not just up to the farmers, but to all those sectors." Oh, yeah, but we're just gonna wait another six months before we say anything about Lelystad. The debate on nitrogen is now, the discussion on closing stables is now, and the discussion on not continuing Lelystad should be now. If Mr Geurts has any real nerve, he will speak out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u97	Mr. Klaver uses great words. "The closure of stables is now on the agenda." No, I say to Mr Klaver, he is not on the agenda right now. I'm not going through forced shrinkage. If you're willing to close your stable, it's another story, but I'm not going to see a forced shrinkage of the livestock, I'll tell Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u98	Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u99	Yeah, short. Mr Geurts has just said that I am not going to see a forced shrinkage. The Minister and the provinces therefore do not have the room to resort to forced contraction. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u100	I also heard Mr Klaver earlier talking about expropriation. I know the story of GroenLinks about how they want to do it. They say: you can produce another ten years and after ten years you have earned enough money and you can leave the Netherlands. That is how you did it in mink farming, and that is not a proper policy, I say to Mr Klaver. Then Mr. Klaver can get angry and then he can't like it, but it's actually the way GroenLinks operated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u101	Mr President, I think it is right that you say to someone who asks a question, 'keep it short', but then perhaps the answer should be to the point. I asked whether the Minister and the provinces still have the room, because perhaps provinces or perhaps this minister should be forced to close down in the rules she is about to lay down. Does the Minister have that space, or does Mr Geurts then say "the end of the story is that I will never support it and that is the end of the cabinet? That's how those words come across.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u102	It could happen to you in a minute. It's about volunteering. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u103	Then the CDA will have to make it clear whether it wants to sit in a cabinet that respects the rule of law, or whether it just doesn't, because that choice is ahead. Wageningen University has also indicated that an area-based approach is insufficient. All legal experts say you can't get there voluntarily. So there is a violation of the rules which the Netherlands has committed itself to. So either the Netherlands does not comply with the law with the support of the CDA, or the cabinet clapps, because the Minister of Agriculture and, in my opinion, the various rulers are indeed responsible for policies that fit within the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u104	I don't quite understand that question. Internal and external netting has also worked within the law in the past, so that's just possible. A threshold is also possible in my view, provided that you provide a good ecological basis. It has to be found. I think there's a very good case to build on. We've also asked the Cabinet to do that. The Minister has already indicated in letters that she intends to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u105	It is not the first time that I have unfortunately to recall that they have a kind of subscription to destructive statements from the Council of State at the CDA. The CDA has been saying here for 25 years: well, we think that's possible. Think of the review framework ammonia, the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen, and you name it. The CDA then says: we think it can be done; we think we're going to do it this way. And that won't hold up in court. That is very unfortunate for entrepreneurs, because that means that you have a constant lack of clarity. It is now quite clear that we must listen to the legal experts for once, otherwise the country will remain silent. What choice does the CDA make here?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u106	I see these comments by Mrs Ouwehand about how we are developing so much case law as a compliment to the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u107	It's not really that. My last question. Mr Geurts did not give a direct answer in the direction of Mr Klaver. I just don't understand why if you stand up for the interests of farmers, you don't immediately say in the presentation of the cabinet measures: aviation must be involved, we are going to drive less fast in the Netherlands and we are stopping unfair competition from these free trade deals. Why doesn't the CDA do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u108	We talked enough about that last week in the debate on the agricultural budget. I refer you to the foreign trade spokesman. Read the report. If you have looked closely at the letter, it says that aviation and those other sectors will also be involved. I have just indicated that we, the CDA Group, are waiting for the outcome of Remkes III.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u109	That is a repeat of an answer to an earlier question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u110	I hear the CDA representative say that other sectors that contribute to nitrogen emissions should also be examined. One of the main causes of this is the following. The Forum for Democracy does not believe at all that there is a nitrogen problem. We like nitrogen for nature and think it's good for trees and stuff. If you believe it is a problem, what you are doing, then you must also recognize that the amount of people living in the Netherlands contribute to that? So you must also recognise that continuing mass immigration, which is the line of this cabinet, contributes to this supposed problem? No one is talking about it, nobody is talking about it, while the farmers are being cut down, the construction sector is being shut down and the infrastructure is being cut down. This cabinet...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u111	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u112	... immigration is therefore more important than farmers, the housing situation in the Netherlands and infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u113	It is a very nice story that Mr Baudet keeps, but it is, of course, basically just that we have to live together in this country. I have just argued in what way we, as CDA, look at this. Then it would be strange to bring immigration into this debate. We can bring the whole world in, like what we bring in here, what's recorded here in the plants, how we process that again. I think we should not confuse these discussions. Mr Baudet states that he sees no nitrogen problem and so on. Our rule of law has established that we have the problem of nitrogen to solve. I cannot ask Mr Baudet again, but consider whether or not you want to live in this rule of law with the remarks made by Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u114	The idea that you should not include other themes is, of course, absurd. Mass immigration keeps going on and on. Last year you signed the Marrakech immigration pact. It's about 100,000 people net each year. They all want a house, they all have cars. So all this leads to nitrogen emissions. You see a problem in that, but you do not want to question immigration. You are squeezing the farmers, the construction industry is stationary, our infrastructure is under heavy pressure. In addition, we are dealing with all kinds of other sectors and perhaps even our air traffic, Lelystad and so on. But what is sacred to the CDA and what is sacred to this cabinet? The structural demographic transformation. It's got to go on. The borders must remain open. Apparently, the massive influx of people must continue. You don't even want to talk about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u115	This is a very nice frame that Mr Baudet is trying to put on me. I'm listening very carefully. It just hurts me to hear what Mr Baudet is saying here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u116	How pathetic!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u117	No, no!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u118	People living somewhere in the world under a heavy regime, such as Christians, should I not be allowed to receive in the eyes of Mr Baudet in this country? I find it really distressing that Mr Baudet dares to say so in this place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u119	Last question, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u120	It's not all Christians we bring here. I can assure you of that, I can assure you!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u121	What you are saying is that Christians cannot enter this country anymore! Or Muslims. I don't care what faith they hold.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u122	No, no, no, no, no, no!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u123	That's what you say, sir...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u124	It is about the problem of nitrogen, I say to those who are wondering what this debate is about. Farmers have been protesting in the Netherlands for two or three days. You will also see it in the public gallery. They would very much like to know what the directors are going to say. I would therefore like you to put the last question to Mr Geurts, but on the subject we are discussing today. Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u125	This is about the subject we are talking about, because immigration contributes to much more nitrogen emissions in the Netherlands. The moment you don't want to question that, so if you want that massive immigration to continue with a playful emotional plea for protecting Christians, that is not at all the issue. The immigration agenda of this cabinet is not aimed at bringing Christians to the Netherlands, on the contrary, 90% of the people, or so, are not Christians at all, but comes from third world countries, Africa and the Middle East and have no chance of serious work and so on here in the Netherlands...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u126	I think...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u127	Anyway, the point is that you don't want that involved. That's shortsighted, that's one-sided. So you choose to wrestle the farmers instead of stopping immigration.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u128	You've made your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u129	I'd like to respond to this. I miss the total mercy with Mr Baudet. I'll try to bring him back to this block. For example, would Mr Baudet not want to include farmers from South Africa in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u130	I miss the mercy of the peasants!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u131	No, no, no, Mr. Baudet!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u132	I think that Mr Baudet no longer has a solution to the problem of nitrogen and thinks he can get out of it in this way, so by not showing mercy in the Netherlands to people who need it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u133	You had a point of order, Mr. Klaver?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u134	You are right to say to colleagues: keep it short. They'll interfere on the subject. Now we have been listening for five minutes to something completely out of order. Fine if you encourage the rest of the colleagues to be brief, but they stick to the subject. That is not the case here. This does not belong in this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u135	This was just a remark, not an order proposal. Mr Futselaar. Do you dare to ask a question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u136	Yeah, I thought it was very clear. The position of the Forum for Democracy is that there is no nitrogen problem, but that this is the fault of migrants. Yeah, you can find that. But that is not the question I came to Mr Geurts for. That was about the point...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u137	No, no, no, wait a minute. This is so stupid!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u138	Mr Baudet, Mr Futselaar has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u139	I wanted to ask about the mandatory reduction of livestock. Mr Geurts is generally quite consistent in saying that he does not want to. I'm not talking about expropriation. I'm talking about external salading and skimming. There are provinces that have given the policy rules a certain form in this respect. Then you can insist that the livestock will be reduced. Does it have any consequences for Mr Geurt if those provinces stick to those policy rules?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u140	This is a nice question, but it asks for a ruling on something that might happen in provinces. I am a little cautious about that, I say to Mr Futselaar, because I do not go over the provinces. It's up to the Statesmen who sit there. If Mr Futselaar asks me, I say: I do not want a forced shrinkage of livestock. I'm consistent with that. Thanks for the compliment. That's what I'm carrying out here and what I'm fighting for as long as I'm in the House of Representatives. I also tabled an amendment yesterday on the Fertilisers Act. You probably saw that. I'm very consistent in that. I'm gonna keep fighting for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u141	This is not a hypothetical problem in the future, it is a matter of policy rules that have now been adopted by provinces and which are still largely in place. So this isn't: what are we gonna do, if? Here's what you're gonna do now. There's this situation now. You are a Member of Parliament, we are the most important legislator. Does this have consequences now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u142	As far as I have the policy rules in my head, I'll try to walk them by. I do not see anywhere in the policy rules the word "forced." So there's not going to be any forced livestock shrinkage right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u143	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Geurts. Let me now give the floor... Short question? Are you sure?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u144	I'm sure, very briefly. If it turns out that a forced contraction in the number of animals is necessary, what does the CDA do?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u145	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I don't think it's necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u146	That's the way it's gonna be. Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u147	We can talk about it long and wide. Mrs. Ouwehand doesn't want to eat meat, so we won't come to a menu together. That's a fact, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u148	Mr Geurts said I'm not going through it. The question is real. The VVD said it should be legally feasible. I hope the CDA agrees. If it turns out that it doesn't work voluntarily, will the CDA give its support to the coalition or will Mr Geurts find another job? It's possible. What happens then?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u149	That's one of those like-dan questions. Let me just be very clear. I've said before: I just don't want forced cattle shrinkage. This is not the way in which you, GroenLinks, SP and also the PVV have contributed to the chilly reorganisation of mink farming in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u150	It's a repeat of the input.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u151	Yes, but I keep getting the same question, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u152	I think we have a right to be clear. I believe that the people in the gallery are entitled to clarity and that the people who are following this debate are entitled to clarity. Do I understand from the view expressed by Mr Geurts that he accepts the entire report of the Remkes Committee and the Minister's letter, but that he is the only reservation that he does not want a forced contraction?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u153	Mr Harbers gave the answer earlier. I think we both have a different version of the report. We're gonna have to put it next to each other. I read it very differently. Mr Moorlag may say that this is not the case, but let us do the exegesis in a moment. I read the report very differently than Mr Moorlag does. I do not see the term 'forced livestock shrinkage' in any way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u154	That wasn't my point. My point is that, for the clarity of this debate, I should like to point out that Mr Geurts, on behalf of the CDA, states that he embraces the Remkes report, that he embraces the Minister's letter, but that he will in any case not allow forced shrinkage of livestock.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u155	Yeah, here we go again. I don't have all the rules of the Remkes Committee in my head, but let's take the cabinet letter. I do not think that all the rules of the Remkes Committee have been adopted. I think that is quite clear. I didn't comment on it to the Minister. I did not say that she would still have to accept certain points from the Remkes Committee. So I am not taking over the entire report from the Remkes Committee. That's right. When it comes to... I've said it before. The chairman looks at me a little angry, so I won't repeat it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u156	I look angry a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u157	Never really me, but yeah.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u158	Mr President, concluding...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u159	Finally, Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u160	Rounding up. Mr Geurts says: I am not going to experience it; I am not going to experience forced contraction and I am not going to experience expropriation. He says that on behalf of the CDA. If such a practice does occur, either on the initiative of the government, or on the initiative of a municipality or the provincial government, does he say that the CDA is not going to experience this with this cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u161	I have already answered that question. I'm not gonna do it again. I have been very clear about the fact that we do not want a forced livestock shrinkage. It's obvious, isn't it? What else do I have to say about it? Am I clear once, it's not good again!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u162	We will continue on this for a while, because there is a difference between 'I don't want it to shrink', that's fine, that's your point of view, and 'I'm not going to see it'. That sounds cool and that also gives the impression to farmers: as long as I sit here and you vote for me, it is not going to happen. But what does it actually mean that you're not going to see it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u163	Exactly as you say. As long as I'm here, I'll fight it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u164	Ah, as long as you're here, you'll...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u165	That's what I said in the paper, so, Mr. Klaver, read the media. I just said it, too. If I'm not a Member of Parliament anymore, I think I'll have less influence in the Chamber. Is that right or is that wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u166	It's getting a little clearer. In fact, Mr Geurts says: as long as I am in the Chamber, I continue to make every effort to ensure that it does not happen. That's fine. That's a point of view. That is the attitude of the CDA Group. But let us be very clear to all those farmers who give you the impression that it is not going to happen, that the option is still on the table that there will be forced contraction. That's okay, but honesty is needed in this polarized debate. Honesty about the fact that we can't rule out a measure and honesty about the way the CDA, now presenting itself as a savior of the farmers, says "as long as I'm here, I'm not going to see it," but I mean "as long as I'm here, I'm trying to stop it." There's no stopping it, and you certainly can't promise it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u167	Thank you, Mr. Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u168	Yes, that's just a service announcement from Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u169	Thank you. Then I'll go to Mr... Oh, Mrs. Ouwehand can't say goodbye to Mr. Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u170	No, we're not gonna assume that for a while. The final question is: can the CDA exclude that a forced contraction in the number of animals is necessary to comply with the legal obligation to protect nature? If that is the case, then that information must come to the Chamber and then we must all be able to see it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u171	That is a somewhat more alternative question than I, from my point of view, experienced by the GroenLinks Group in 2015. I was asked: Mr. Geurts, can you give the guarantee that what is happening now is going to provide legal certainty under the PASs? I said at the time that I could never offer a guarantee of 100% security. However, I can promise that as long as I am allowed to be here in the Chamber, I will do what I have just said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u172	That's what you said. Thank you, Mr. Geurts. I shall now give the floor to Mr De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u173	Thank you, Mr President. This evening we are discussing the ruling of the highest judge in this country, who has reminded us that we have left nature to its fate in recent years. The Dutch nature dangles at the bottom of the European ranking. As a result, we are unable to build 25,000 homes and the construction of wind farms and rail links is at risk of slowing down. An excess of nitrogen compounds is bad for the health of humans, plants and animals. This evening we are talking about clean air and clean water for everyone in the Netherlands. Dutch children near industrial areas can take less and less deep breaths. Dutch children near highways have damage to heart and blood vessels. One in five new asthma cases is related to the amount of nitrogen in the environment. There are 50 new cases of nitrogen asthma every day. One in ten oaks in the Netherlands is sick because the soil is acidified as a result of nitrogen. As a result, important minerals such as calcium wash away and birds have too little lime in their bones, literally sinking through their legs. This has been established by scientific institutions; it is not just an opinion, we are not half in the dark. We have neglected nature in the Netherlands together. D66 is primarily about nature. We live in a rule of law and that means for D66 that we simply have to comply with what the judge has asked us to do. The government's been flagged back twice by the judge. Let's do it right now! To what extent is the Minister aware of the scale of the problem? Last Monday's report by the WUR talks about the release of nitrogen, which is not my term 'a halving of nitrogen emissions'. Has the Minister prepared scenarios to understand the consequences of the ruling of the Council of State? In the light of the challenge we face, what is a legally sustainable and robust nature policy? What's that look like? We've had ten years of nature policy balding behind us. What's it gonna take? When will this Minister review the Nature Pact? Mr. Chairman. Plants and animals don't go to The Hague and they don't block roads, but they die in silence. The best nature policy is a good agricultural policy. Circulation farming is the right way to get to a system that allows farmers with fewer animals to earn more. But that does require clarity from this minister to farmers, processors and retail about what circular farming means. Everyone will agree that we need to grow to 100% recycled feed, mature manure, to which the farmer also deserves some money, and a healthy soil. But how does the minister get the platoon? And don't the forerunners feel abandoned? As I said in my introduction, the problem of nitrogen is wider than agriculture alone. Farmers make a big contribution to emissions, but they are not to blame. I don't need to go blackmailing, but if there's a culprit to be appointed, then it's politics. This Chamber has delayed choices for too long. We're gonna have to fix it now. This means that all sectors must contribute: transport, industry and housing. Traffic: how is the Minister going to ensure that speed reductions on the national roads are properly aligned, so that it does not become a confusing penance feast? Living: How will the Minister amend the Building Decision in such a way that new homes will become nature inclusive, circular and energy neutral? The Climate Agreement covers the entire economy. Has the Minister already been charged what the nitrogen gain of the Climate Agreement is? The cabinet is now taking a first step out of this crisis. As far as D66 is concerned, that is a good step, but many more steps will be taken very quickly. What does the Minister have in mind? How does she see her role? Who is the Council of State's opinion addressed to? In view of the administrative situation in the Netherlands, how can the Minister ensure that sufficient results are achieved? Isn't that even time for performance agreements with the province? How is the Minister going to make it possible to build houses and roads again very quickly, in a way that is legally sustainable, not with a ruse? Mr President, I will conclude. This crisis also has a good side. It is an opportunity to put our economy on a sustainable footing. Remkes says not everything is possible. D66 says there can be more, but then it has to be smarter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u174	I expected someone from that side of the room to start talking about halving, but that's not gonna happen, so I'll do it. First, a question of fact. In an interview, a month or so ago, Mr De Groot said that the pig and chicken sector should be halved, and now I see in D66 statements that livestock should be halved. Can I take it that Mr De Groot now also believes that the dairy sector should be halved?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u175	No, the reason we have talked about the halving of pig and chicken herds is on the one hand that there are problems that we have known for a long time: the problems of manure and animal welfare and the fires, always topical, unfortunately. In addition, half the feed of pigs and chickens is actually not recycled-proof. We humans can eat that too, and then you shouldn't give it to animals, because that doesn't help the earth. That's the background to the halving there. In dairy cows, it is 60% to 70% of grass they eat. We cannot eat this, so there really is a future for land-based dairy farming, with grazing, also good to combat nitrogen emissions. Yes, that dairy herd should also be reduced, but that is what this cabinet is going to do especially in the vicinity of Natura 2000 areas where it is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u176	I am also convinced that livestock must be reduced. Frankly, that was already when Mr De Groot said that the opposition was so focused on animal numbers. But of course it is something, if you shout out that the livestock must halve and then there comes a nuance that you do not mean dairy farmers, which is the largest group of farmers in the Netherlands. No matter how D66 presents itself, and this is also about support, that's a lot of people in the curtains. What you mean is less far-reaching, but you also have a responsibility, don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u177	No, that's very clear. I'll be right there. First of all, you say, "We've always called out to halve."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u178	Ho, ho, ho, "shrink." I said it must be shrinking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u179	Fine, it doesn't matter. But how you meant it, is in a way where you can't help all those people, all those families in a good way. D66 has said: we are going to offer those farmers who want to stop, the choice to stop in a warm way. It wasn't until there was money that we could say the same thing. And before that, you were just yelling. Yeah, less cattle, less cattle. How are you gonna do that? That was actually a cold clean-up. And then there's dairy farming. We have always said: circular agriculture is the starting point. And if you start from circular agriculture, an important criterion is where the feed comes from. Since the first interview, you have been able to take a clear look at the position of D66, namely that for dairy farming there is more recycled feed, grass, available than for other animals, apart from the other problems I mentioned in intensive livestock farming.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u180	It is good that Mr De Groot now thinks he can say what I mean when I say that there should be fewer cattle, because he has refused to talk to us for two years about how to do that. But when it comes to pig and chicken farming, Mr De Groot says that he has waited until the money arrives. Where's the money? We can see that about 10% of pig farming can be cleaned up, but that is not 50%. Even if Mr De Groot scrapes some other jars together, he does not come up with the sums he needs to clean up that sector. Where's the money?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u181	The money is settled in the coalition agreement. Money has been added to this in the climate agreement, and not a penny of it has been spent. So the moment this money is spent, we're gonna start with the next step. That's obvious. What needs to be done is what needs to be done, but first you're going to spend the money you've got on the shelf and not what you haven't arranged yet. That makes sense to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u182	I agree with Mr De Groot that almost nothing has happened yet and that this is a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u183	I am indeed pleased that D66 is now saying that a reduction in the number of animals is urgently needed in view of the nature and environmental requirements. When D66 made that explicit, it was first: it is not a goal, but seeing it is the argument that it is really necessary to allow the housing projects to continue. Now the Chamber was informed yesterday: the cabinet plans that lie there are legally rather shaky and the situation remains still. So the question is, what now? The cabinet chooses to volunteer; the experts say "untenable." That's not gonna make the housing projects go smoothly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u184	Again, the Party for Animals is also a party that says every time: fewer animals. D66 is really different. What we have done is to provide a perspective for farmers. Make sure there's an alternative. That's circular farming. The whole Chamber, except for the Party for Animals, yes, sometimes, sometimes not; it is not quite clear to me that at least there is a clear perspective for farmers. Now that means there's a choice. There is a choice to stop; a warm clean-up. Or we're going to help farmers take the steps towards making agriculture more sustainable. And that leads to fewer animals; yes, that's right. Warm investment is, of course, by far preferable to hot cleaning, because putting money into innovation is a smarter spending of money. As far as legal sustainability is concerned, that is of course a concern. Look, everything we do now... We're not gonna come up with another trick. We're not gonna be smarter than the judge again. The fact that it is legally sustainable is a prerequisite for the process we are now entering into.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u185	Yeah, exactly. And that's where you'll see the fight in the coalition. I don't think that's good for the farmers. The Court points out that this voluntary nature is insufficient and not legally sustainable. We can see that the CDA and the VVD still stick to voluntaryity, and thus to an unsustainable model, while D66, in my opinion, wanted a legally sustainable model and an obligation to reduce the number of animals. Where's it going now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u186	You have also read in the newspaper that four out of ten farmers are considering stopping. I think it makes perfect sense to start with the farmers who want to quit. Otherwise, you're gonna pay a lot more of the taxpayers' money, because they're gonna say, "I don't want to quit, so come on through with your money." So you start with the farmers who want to quit, with the farmers who say "I want to end my business properly now," "I want to go with a well-earned pension" or "I want to choose another profession." It makes sense for you to start with that. Let's start with that and then we'll see. It is not for nothing that the letter from the cabinet states quite clearly that voluntaryity is the starting point. And that makes perfect sense to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u187	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u188	Yes, finally a question about the so-called latent space. Yesterday, during the hearing, we were told that "late space" means that more has been granted than is currently being done. Suppose you have a license for 100 cows, but you only have 80 in your stable. The Council of State's statement was very clear: no more nitrogen emissions should be added. And that is possible, because licences have been issued for a larger capacity than for the capacity currently being used. Does D66 agree with the Animal Party that there should be no expansion within those permits, that you should take up that latent space, that the government should compensate for that and that money should also be provided where it is going to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u189	Whatever you do, the goal of skimming the whole of the external salad is to reduce total nitrogen emissions. That's good in the letter, too. That's what the judge's asking of us. That is what we have to do in the first place. The nitrogen bucket is now completely filled, and that is very bad for nature. We need to make sure that this..... to speak with Wageningen University becomes half-full. That is the great task we face. Is there still a lot of room to grow in permits? Then you need to take a good look at the way you take that nitrogen space. That is why the aim is also well formulated in the letter, namely that nitrogen emissions should be reduced. So you're starting to rumble off in a way. I assume that the minister there will really keep his finger on the pulse. That's what I'd like to hear from the Minister. Is that enough? 'Cause if what you're saying is true, we won't take anything out of it, and then there could even be growth. That's not the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u190	I agree with Mr De Groot when he says that we cannot come up with another trick. But for this debate, there seems to have been a ruse. The first trick is: we're just gonna make a truce and all that crap outside this house, we're not gonna do that right now. The second ruse seems to be that we're going to tell fairy tales. Mr Harbers says that we can all look for technical solutions. That just means closed barn systems. And Mr De Groot says that dairy farming will have a future if it is ground-bound and if there is grazing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u191	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u192	How can that be reconciled?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u193	Very good. Mr Moorlag may have missed it, but at the moment there is a crisis. We have nature on the one hand, which is bad. On the other hand, we have an economy that is being brought to a standstill and a country in which we can no longer build houses. This requires far-reaching measures. The Remkes Committee is also working to see how you can put everything in the scaffolding now. However, in the short term you also have to make sure that you can take steps again, that you can protect that nature and build houses. That's what this letter is for. That is why D66 also says: this is a good first step, but we must take further steps quickly, as a matter of urgency. That makes sense to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u194	I think Mr De Groot is barely going into the real diametrical difference that I hear between his words and those of Mr Harbers. But the third trick I would like to raise is the question: how are we going to pay for it? I also read in the letter that the housing funds allocated to the cabinet should be used to buy nitrogen rights to facilitate housing. Does D66 support that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u195	You may assume that the whole amount will be used for this purpose. I don't think that makes any sense. But it is good to look at a useful use of the funds that we have already reserved. It's good to see if you can use it for that, too. But of course it's even better to see if you can strengthen the accessibility by bike or by public transport of the houses you're going to build. Can you build those homes that are needed, that provide energy, where you can live nice and warm? So you need to see how you're gonna use that fund. You have to do it in full width. And if it is necessary to build a little more nature for that around housing that is good for the people who are going to live there and it is also good for nature itself.I would certainly use that fund for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u196	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u197	Finalizing, Mr. Chairman. We're witnessing ruse number 4, which is that you're going to pay two bills with the same amount.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u198	I have a question about the cabinet letter. Mr De Groot has already referred to it. Voluntary reorganisation is the starting point. Does this letter exclude forced clean-up?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u199	No, that doesn't rule out forced clean-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u200	Thank you for this clear answer. This shows that we are indeed starting with this voluntary reorganisation, which I am also in favour of. But if that is not enough for any reason, then this cabinet letter gives enough room to say: we are going to be forced to clean up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u201	Yeah, it just wouldn't be wise. But that may, of course, be necessary in an individual case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u202	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u203	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u204	Thank you. I shall then give the floor to Mr Kops on behalf of the PVV. Then we're gonna suspend for dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u205	Mr. Chairman. Sour rain, hole in the ozone layer, greenhouse effect, global warming, climate change, CO problem and now suddenly there is a nitrogen problem; yet another stick to hit. During the demonstration at the Malieveld, the Minister said to the angry peasants: I am proud of you. But now, two weeks later, even the army is deployed to keep those same peasants at bay at all costs. So what do you mean, proud? They're empty words from a cowardly minister. People are really angry. They're sick of spit and spit. The farmers first, and rightly so. Meanwhile, the construction sector does not rule out protests either. The construction is completely quiet, and that while the housing shortage is huge. For two and a half years, this cabinet has promised to eliminate the housing shortage. Already barely any of that came to pass and that was already happening very slowly, partly because of all kinds of CO requirements, now nitrogen is the problem. That whole nitrogen noose is going to cost the construction industry billions. Projects are stalled and some 27,000 jobs are on the way. And that while the construction sector is responsible for only 0.6% of all nitrogen. It's really insane. Farmers go down, construction companies go down, and then what? Who's gonna pay for all that? Then who's gonna take care of our food? Then who's gonna build our houses? It's pure contempt from those we should be so proud of. Meanwhile, the coalition parties are mostly busy with themselves and they do roll around the streets. The CDA mainly focuses on calculation models. D66 wants a halving of the livestock. The VVD says: no, no less animal. What about the Christian Union? That party delivers the minister. Has the Minister solved the nitrogen crisis yet? No. Nitrogen crisis, indeed. Do you know what's striking? Six months ago, you barely heard anyone talking about nitrogen. And now all of a sudden everyone's screaming murder and fire. That while nitrogen emissions have been more than halved over the past decades. The conclusion is therefore that there is no nitrogen problem at all. There's more like a legal problem, or a political problem. Since then, everyone has panicked and nothing has actually happened for months. The result is a report by schnabbelaar Remkes of the VVD, which may be appreciated by GroenLinks, but actually contains the worst imaginable recommendations. Recommendations that all give in to that whole nitrogen obsession. Recommendations which the Minister is practically already implementing. Farmers need to be cleaned up. It's pure capital destruction. Two weeks ago, on the highway, the speed limit was sneaking down, while the VVD was so proud of that 130 km/h. What about the construction? I told you, it's one big, fat shit. The country is completely locked and that is because we are governed by politicians who bow to the delusions of GroenLinks. It is because of politicians who are also bowing to EU rules. As a result, farmers and builders are now being forced into bankruptcy. It's really too scandalous for words. Admittedly, Mr Remkes is right in one thing: the nitrogen crisis is the fault of politicians in The Hague. Look, there they are. They have chosen EU rules from EU bureaucrats, which are shoved down the throats of farmers. We don't choose to do that. We do not choose the EU, we choose the farmers. For the farms, the family farms and their survival. And yes, Mr. Chairman, we don't need all these nitrogen rules at all. What the Minister should at least do now is adapt and relax those rules. Think of something. Do something, so that farmers can get back to farming, so that there can be a ride on the highway and contractors can start building again. We have some 160 Natura 2000 sites in the Netherlands, with all the consequences. Is the Minister prepared to reduce the number of sites with such Natura 2000 status? If provinces ask for the withdrawal of the Natura 2000 status of a particular area, is the Minister prepared to do anything to make that possible? I'd like a response to that point. Mr. Chairman. At the Malieveld, the Minister said to the farmers, "We can't go around you anymore." And indeed, that's right. But what the Minister should not do now is catch the farmers again and again. No, she has to stand up for them and stand behind them. It must stand behind the farmers and the entrepreneurs, because it is only when the minister does that that she can quite rightly say: I am proud of the farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u206	The PVV takes every opportunity to indicate how much it stands behind the farmers and that it is up to everyone here in The Hague except the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u207	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u208	Not so long ago, in 2015, your group tabled a proposal to reduce the bio-industry. How do you look at that now? How am I supposed to rhyme with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u209	We are indeed opposed to the bio-industry. We're also against mega-stables, indeed. That has to do with animal welfare. We fully support that, but what you want to do is turn a whole agricultural sector upside down, because you have your ears hanging on EU rules, because you want to follow the EU rules. There is no nitrogen problem at all. You are turning it into a nitrogen problem and you are now pouring it out over the farmers. You just want to turn their necks. Then do not come to the PVV with all kinds of reproaches about what we have said in the past. We're behind that, because that's fine. But what you're doing is destroying farms. Shame on you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u210	What hopeful words. It almost freaks me out. In fact, it says: "We are not for this whole bio-industry either, we have to get rid of this intensive livestock farming and we have to get rid of these mega-farms. Those were words from the past, and you can arrest us now, but yes, we still support them." I see that we have a lot in common and that we...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u211	Well, I don't think so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u212	... actually working together to reduce... Not that I like it, huh? I'm not happy to say it, but I do notice that we're both trying to cut down the bio-industry. What proposals could we make together in order to achieve this? Then we do not look at EU rules, as you call them, or at the nitrogen problem. Then we'll just say, "We're gonna bring back these big stables and that huge amount of animals together." That would be great! What proposal can I expect from you, or should we make a preliminary move?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u213	Mr Klaver now pretends that every farmer in the Netherlands is doing bio-industry or that every farmer in the Netherlands has a megastal. There are just a lot of farmers in the Netherlands who keep 50, 100 or 200 animals. Those aren't mega stables, but you're acting like all these farmers are bad for their animals. Of course they're not, and if those farmers just take good care of their animals, there's nothing wrong with it at all. But you want to shrink it all down. You also want to turn your back on those farmers. Then please don't make such a caricature of it. You just want to turn your back on that agricultural sector.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u214	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u215	I'd say, who makes what a caricature?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u216	You, I just said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u217	Who makes what a caricature?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u218	You, I just said that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u219	Then let's focus on the family businesses. I do not want to say'small', because I think we are doing them wrong. Let's just focus on those traditional farms with about 70 cows. Then we're not gonna talk about that. No, we're going to talk about these large-scale farms with thousands of chickens and hundreds or thousands of pigs. Then we'll deal with it together. I look forward to it already!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u220	Thank you. Mr De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u221	Your group leader was at the Malieveld yesterday and he promised everything. You are now standing up as a farmer's foreman, but there is a figure of 700 million a year coming from Brussels and you are also against Brussels. Are you going to say "we're gonna stop doing that too"? That 700 million a year for the farmers, are we gonna make a line?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u222	Mr De Groot knows our position on the EU. We do want to leave the EU. EU membership costs us a lot of money, billions. And yes, as long as we are a member of that European Union... It is of course a cigar from its own box, but every euro that comes back to our own country: of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u223	You want to leave the European Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u224	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u225	But that means that that money will no longer go to the farmers. I think it is good that the people, including in the public gallery, know what that means.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u226	That is what Mr De Groot has to say! That must be said by Mr De Groot, who wants to kill farmers, who even want to shut them down! He's talking about money that wouldn't go to the farmers anymore. It's all farms, families working hard. And you want to turn your back on it, and then you dare talk about money that these farmers would miss out on: you will bankrupt them, that is what you are doing!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u227	I note that the answer to my question is yes, and then there will be something quite different, which has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u228	Well, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u229	I would just like to refer to the original interview, in which I said: we need fewer cattle, precisely in order to offer these farmers a future.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u230	Thank you, Mr. Kops.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u231	Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to quote from that interview, for the sake of completeness. I quote: 'First of all, you are looking at farmers who already want to quit, but you certainly shouldn't rule out the obligation to shut down businesses', says Mr De Groot of D66. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u232	Thank you, Mr. Kops. I'd like to make the proposal to suspend for dinner break.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u233	We shall continue with the debate on the problem of nitrogen, and I shall give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u234	Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands has a nitrogen problem and it concerns all of us. This nitrogen problem is not falling out of the sky. We live on the ecological puff. We want everything, we want it now and we want it all at the same time on that tiny piece of earth, while the things that give life value are under pressure. The Programme Approach Nitrogen seemed too good to be true and it has proved so. My group is also concerned about this. Many have been responsible for this and do not speak out now. I think it's important to do that. Then we are talking about choices made by this Chamber, including by my group, Mr President. It is good to learn from this and not to make the same mistakes again. If we're gonna keep our lives viable, we're all gonna have to settle in. In doing so, choices are necessary. These choices concern not only agriculture, but also industry and road, aviation and shipping. What we saw in the past few days with the peasant protest was a clash between the Randstad and the region. I understand very well that the farmers do not like it when agriculture has to pay the price, but air traffic is not put in the way of straws, Formula 1 at all costs and 130 km/h driving is sacred. In the letter, the cabinet rightly denies the view that certain areas or sectors are exclusively responsible for the problem of nitrogen and rightly states that the measures must be taken in all sectors and in all parts of the country. Can the Ministers assure us that all sectors will contribute to this joint task? Mr. Chairman. The priorities of the Christian Union are clear. They are not due to an increase in the speed limit and not to unbridled growth in air traffic. Our priority is, however, the shift to circular agriculture. And yes, that doesn't mean that everything doesn't stick to the old. But we do make this change together with the farmers: not about the farmers, not without the farmers, but together with them. The Christian Union considers it important that anyone who wants to be a farmer in the Netherlands can move forward and have a future. We help farms renew, for example with innovative barn systems. We already see very nice initiatives in this, for example in the FoodValley. We help farmers move when necessary. When farmers' sons and daughters want to take over and continue, they can expect support. Farmers who want to stop, we generously offer the opportunity to do so. The starting point is voluntary. How can farmers be clear about the choices they can make, the consequences they can have and the help they can get? The Christian Union supports the government's territorial approach and investment in nature restoration. The latter is very much needed. However, I do have a number of questions following the letter on the nitrogen approach. What is the outcome of the consultation with the provinces? Is there any more clarity about that? Yesterday there was an interesting round table discussion and that gave me some insights. The model of RIVM may not be perfect, but it is the best we have. It is scientifically validated and continuously improved. However, it is important to increase the input through measurements, satellite images and observations of ecologists. Last Tuesday, this Chamber passed a motion in that direction. Is the Minister prepared to take short-term steps in this respect? Yesterday, legal doubts were raised about the granting of permits until the favourable state of conservation of Natura 2000 sites has been achieved. As I said, we should not make the same mistake again, and that is why it is right that the Minister should ask the Council of State for information on a threshold. Mr. Chairman. The construction industry is calling the bell. Orders cannot be executed while there is a major housing shortage. Soon there will seem to be layoffs, people we're gonna need again. How can we help the construction sector through the valley is also my question to this cabinet. Mr President, my final question. I think there's a big need for a timeline. Can the Minister indicate what the planning looks like and when the measures will follow, so that people know when there is clarity about what? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u235	I heard Mrs Dik-Faber say a lot about what is going to happen and about policy, but I do not hear her say so much about the consequences that this has for the agricultural sector and also for animals. Does Mrs Dik-Faber realize that this policy of the cabinet only leads to more mega-stables? So I am talking about the large-scale bio-industry, and I am not really talking about small businesses and medium-sized enterprises. I'm talking about large-scale bio-industry and mega-stables. In these stables there is not always, but very often animal welfare is also under pressure. We shouldn't want that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u236	This cabinet has come up with a vision of circular agriculture. That's the dot on the horizon where we're going to work together. We do not do that over the heads of the farmers, but together with the farmers and step by step. That does mean that things will change. But I said, and I continue to stress, that we do not want to impose things here from The Hague. We really want to go on the road together with the farmers and work on that future step by step.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u237	I will come back to this large-scale bio-industry. I am talking about megasms, where savings are being made on animal welfare, for example, so that farmers are left with more money, for example, to invest in all kinds of installations to deal with this whole nitrogen policy. I would ask Mrs Dik-Faber once again whether she shares the view that this policy will only increase the number of farms. In these stables, therefore, animal welfare is often under pressure. Does she share the view that we shouldn't want to?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u238	In the past, all too often, policies have indeed led to economies of scale. I'd like to hand it to the PVV. We've been able to see that in this country. I don't think we should take that route. That is why I am very pleased that this cabinet has said that we want to achieve this point on the horizon of circular agriculture together with the farmers. The cabinet has said that we want to achieve this together with the farmers. I therefore think it is important to stand next to the farmers. Mr President, I shall leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u239	I very much appreciate that the Christian Union is looking back, taking responsibility for the choices that were made then and saying that we need to learn from that. Thank you for that. The Christian Union is the only coalition party I've heard say that. Oh, no, D66 did, too. Thank you for that. I do have the next question. Mrs Dik-Faber says: we must learn from that. You can now see that government policy is again committed to technological solutions. We know from the past that this means: a low-emission stable floor or an air washer. When a farmer chooses, the Rabobank says: that investment is beautiful, but then animals have to be included, because it has to be rendered. This seems therefore to be a choice for the continuation of the policy as it was, which means that a company has to grow ever larger and small family businesses are forced out of the market. Is that what Mrs Dik-Faber is worried about with the Party for Animals?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u240	I think we should be aware that in the past, policies have, in fact, too often led to economies of scale. That point has just been raised by the PVV. I do not think we should make the same mistake in this regard either. That is why the letter also states in a number of places the word 'investment', and that money must be allocated. I cannot mention amounts now, but I do think that if we ask farmers to change, to move, we should help them to do so. Too often in the past, banks have played a major role in this process, forcing companies to scale up to a certain degree. And I would like to add one more thing. This debate is about nitrogen. There's a problem with that. I now notice that the size of stables is associated with nitrogen. I would like to disprove that for a while, because large stables can also have a low nitrogen deposition. That is the reality I want to bring into this debate. I hope that Mrs Ouwehand will also be aware of this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u241	Thank you very much, Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u242	Mr President, I would like to respond to that. That is possible, but we have seen that it is really a question of whether you should want those technological solutions to reduce nitrogen emissions from a barn. Those air scrubbers cost a lot of power. So the real question is whether you should want it if we need to save energy. And its yield was assessed more positively than it turned out to be in reality. So the farmers invested, the subsidies went and the Rabobank said: yes, but then you have to take more animals. It seems in the letter that now lies that at least part of the cabinet wants to continue with that policy. And that seems so unwise to me, so I hope that Mrs Dik-Faber and the Christian Union will withdraw from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u243	I don't think we should be dirty with technology. That's what I hear the Animal Party say a bit here. Technology is part of our agriculture. Our agriculture is already very innovative and I am very happy with that. Together we come up with things that make agriculture more balanced with the environment. At the same time, if we were only talking about technology, that would not be enough for my group. We're not just talking about that. We are also talking about a system change, and that is the way to circular agriculture. I think those two could go hand in hand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u244	Thank you. I'm sorry, Mrs. Ouwehand. I'm going to see Mr. Klaver. No, Mrs Ouwehand, I'm going to Mr Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u245	Why?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u246	I've chosen not to limit the number of interruptions, but I notice that you also have most of the interruptions in each sentence, Mr. Clover. I would also like to leave others to the floor. I believe that this point has been sufficiently changed. Then I'll go to Mr. Clover. Mr. Klaver.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u247	I have another question about the letter. It is a question that I have also asked Mr De Groot. It's about voluntary rehabilitation being the starting point. That is also our starting point, I would like to say. How does the Christian Union view that? Is there therefore no way that compulsory buy-out can be carried out?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u248	For us volunteering is a very important issue. I think it should be central. I think that's also the only way to take steps with each other. If we are going to talk about compulsory measures here, and if we are going to talk about the size of the livestock, then we are not going to get together. For us volunteering is the starting point. I really want us to sit at the kitchen table with people and ask: how are we going to solve this problem together? I see that there are farmers who are very eager to move and who are very eager to take steps. They must be given the opportunity to take those steps. That's what this cabinet is going to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u249	I am not happy to ask this question, because I would also like it to be voluntary. I think that's the very best way to do it, but I'll ask it. I really appreciate the Christian Union's attitude in this debate. He's a realist. I also think it is very good how they look back on their own role. I appreciate that very much. I believe that in this whole line-up we should also be honest about the fact that we cannot rule out the possibility that this may happen. That we're trying to avoid that with each other, you can hold me to that. But the exclusion of forced buy-back, too, we can't. We can't stop that. I think we should be honest with farmers in this whole dossier.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u250	The Christian Union very much wants someone who wants to be a farmer in the Netherlands and who wants to remain a farmer, to be able to do so. We want people to have perspective. If you are indeed at a Natura 2000 site, then you may say that you do not see a future for yourself. Then a warm clean-up is on the table. It may be that there is indeed a situation that a company in that place is not sustainable. That's not a nice conversation, but then it's the conversation you're having with that farmer about. You're gonna sit down at the kitchen table and see what the options are for this company, maybe not in this place, but in some other place in the country. This also includes a warm displacement. Or it's a conversation, and I see it literally happening in the country, that farmers are in the middle of Natura 2000 areas and say: I'm becoming part of that Natura 2000 area; I still have my farm, but I've started to work extensively and I'm also contributing to the nature management in this area; all in all, I'm getting a close business. These examples are also available. As far as my group is concerned, this is the perspective and the starting point is voluntary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u251	Thank you very much, Mrs Dik-Faber. I now give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u252	Thank you, Mr President. Nature has value in itself, regardless of its usefulness to man. For this reason alone, any cabinet should want to protect nature by itself. The Netherlands does not. The Netherlands says "we're not crazy stallions; we're only doing it if the rest of Europe joins us." European rules have been agreed and then the Netherlands violates them. That is a bit the dynamics of nature policy in the Netherlands. Apart from the position of the Party for Animals, namely that you must want to protect nature because of itself, it is also true that man cannot do without nature. In doing so, we depend on ecosystems and biodiversity. I want to have said that here because some people here in this house believe that a cow in the meadow is also nature. This whey is then a monoculture of English rai grass in which there is actually no life anymore: no herbs, no flowers and no insects. That's dangerous for all of us. Mr. Chairman. The motto of the Party for Animals has always been: fewer animals, less manure, less problems. Unfortunately, the cabinet policy of the last 25 years has had the motto 'less farmer but more animals'. If you could conclude that farmers have benefited from the fact that we have violated all the rules of nature and the environment... But that's not the case at all! Look at how many farmers have had to stop, just since 2005, the last time we looked at what the nature and environmental goals that the Netherlands must adhere to and what that means when we act on them. This is all due to the Agriculture Economic Institute. We would have had more farmers and we wouldn't have been in such trouble with the nature goals. But what happened? The number of pig farmers has been more than halved and the number of pigs has increased. If anyone in this debate dares to say that arguing for a reduction in the number of animals in the Netherlands is the same as moving the farmers away, I say: no, it is precisely the policy of the cabinet and the cabinet before that and the cabinet before that. Always ignore natural and environmental rules and look for technological solutions, which means you have to invest in low-emission floors. And the Rabobank says, "A lot of fun, you gotta take more animals." Every day five to seven farmers have to stop because of your policies, I'm just saying. Mr. Chairman. Agriculture has been waiting for such an incredible amount of time, now the Minister of Agriculture has to stand up and opt for a sustainable agriculture in the future. She's gonna have to do her homework when it comes to the nitrogen pronunciation. Yesterday there was a hearing in the Lower House. All the legal experts said about this cabinet letter and policy: we'll be back in court in no time, it's not legally sustainable. So the Minister has a problem there. I'm really wondering if things are going well in the Ministry. I've been asking the VVD. When the coalition came together to cut the buttons, to look at the question "what should we do now?', There were no legal analyses to make choices. How is it that there are experts in this country who know exactly what to take into account, what to do in order not to go back to court, what to do to pull off the projects, what to do to protect nature, and that the Ministry doesn't know? Those people know all that and the Ministry doesn't. Maybe it's time for a big switch trick. We heard that LTO and the union for pig farmers said, "We don't want to talk to the Ministry anymore." Well, that sounds like a good chance. Get to work on legally sustainable solutions and involve these people. They have said all these years if politics had once again devised a trick: we do not believe that this is legally sustainable. Then the VVD and the CDA said "yes, you know," and then government policy became. And then these people asked the judge, "Would you take a look at it? I don't think it's possible, given the laws and regulations. And who was always right? The people we heard yesterday at the hearing. Who was always wrong? CDA, VVD, SGP, ChristenUnion, D66. I think it's time to listen to other people. One of the important points we heard is that the voluntary nature of the cabinet is completely unsustainable. Security is needed and national measures are needed. When will the Minister present a legally sustainable analysis of what these measures are part of? When does she come with money? Yesterday it became clear to us that the so-called latent space is an important problem. There is more authorised than nitrogen is currently emitted. This means that there can still be growth with a growth of nitrogen emissions, whereas this is prohibited. It's against the law. The Animal Party believes that this latent space should therefore be taken as soon as possible, but that should compensate the Cabinet where it should be. That money has not yet become available. Can the Minister promise today that she will still draw the wallet for that? I think farmers deserve that certainty. The Party for Animals also considers it important that everyone participates. It is really incredibly unwise to send a letter on how to deal with the nitrogen problems that does not say: we stop with Lelystad; the formula 1 cannot go on; we delete subsidies for biomass plants. Of course, farmers are angry. Of course they think: should we be the only ones working on measures? Make that clear immediately! I see there's been an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u253	So do I, but I thought you'd want to finish your sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u254	Shall I stop?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u255	Yeah, that's fine. Mr. Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u256	We'll just take over the chair again. And I'm happy to give it back to the chairman. I just heard Mrs Ouwehand of the Party for Animals say: then you can grow again. Is Mrs Ouwehand aware that we in the Netherlands have poultry rights, pig rights, phosphate rights, nitrogen ceilings, phosphate ceilings and all kinds of other laws and regulations? Could Mrs Ouwehand explain to me where we could grow in the Netherlands in the field of livestock farming?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u257	I am very aware of the fact that there are animal rights, which unfortunately do not mean that animals have rights, but that a farmer has rights to put animals in his stable. Despite these systems, it has not been possible to protect nature. Even before this nitrogen ruling, the government had already concluded in the coalition agreement that despite all the systems that livestock farming should have kept within the environmental limits, an overload situation had arisen in Brabant. Taxpayers can now lose EUR 200 million to solve problems that have simply arisen within the environmental frameworks outlined here by Mr Geurts. Those frameworks have therefore been too broad.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u258	We can bring in the whole history. This has to do with the reconstruction, in which sympathizers of your party wanted to place farmers all together. Farmers were forced and forced to do so, because that was better then et cetera, et cetera.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u259	We've never been excited about that, you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u260	But my question won't be answered. Mrs Ouwehand said that there could be or will be a growth in livestock farming. I would like to hear from Mrs Ouwehand how that would be possible, because I would like to learn from Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u261	The fact is that licences have been issued which are not yet fully exploited. This applies not only to livestock farming. The same applies to industry. This means that if economic activity is not fully covered by the licence at the moment, there is still room for manoeuvre. Near the Peel you will have a problem faster than near a nature reserve that is not so sensitive to nitrogen. Mr Geurts knows how this works with the depositions and how you have a bigger problem in the Peel faster than, for example, in less nitrogen-sensitive areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u262	I'm still not getting an answer. You can't grow in the Netherlands. It is a movement of the animal from A to B, but you cannot grow in the Netherlands. So let Mrs Ouwehand admit that she did not say that correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u263	No, you can grow. It could just be that there's a lot of latent space around the Peel. If animal rights are sold elsewhere, there can be a higher deposition in that area, whereas that area has been overburdened for years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u264	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u265	Mr. Chairman. Everyone's got to be in on it. I had not mentioned yet: everywhere in the Netherlands to a maximum of 100 km/h. This could provide a considerable space for housing. That too is so fair to the farmers. Finally, Mr President. Everyone must participate in this process, including Germany, Belgium, Denmark and France. The Animal Party wants the Cabinet to urge the European Commission to initiate infringement proceedings against these countries. It may well be that there are strong indications for.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That would solve two problems. Farmers now feel unfairly treated more stringent than farmers in Germany. Plus, if they are going to respect those rules properly in Germany, then the Netherlands also suffers less from the overflow of nitrogen from, for example, Germany and Belgium. Mr. Chairman. Last but not least, put an end to this unfair competition. No free trade agreements that allow for the import of cheap products from countries where the nitrogen rules are more flexible than here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u266	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. I now give the floor to Mr Van Otterloo on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u267	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Very peasant, building and administrative The Netherlands is suddenly under the spell of nitrogen. On TV I saw a young farmer declare that suddenly there was a nitrogen problem. You almost wish it were true, but unfortunately we've been working on the nitrogen for years. The Council of State's first statement in this last series went back to spring five years ago. The hysteria is the result of blocking the PAS, not the problem of nitrogen. Because the issue has been going on for a long time. The smarter farmers in animal farming know that they must use the latest techniques to reduce nitrogen emissions because it is harmful to all of us, but certainly also to certain natural areas. Actually, we all know it's not going well enough, but we'd rather come up with a trick than make real policy. Henk Bleker felt like a real Barbapa and made up a trick. That trick became the PAS, where the nitrogen was not adequately prevented in the here and now. Earlier policy to concentrate the pig stables in certain areas has led to the construction of megasthals, but it did not lead to a reduction in the places where they were needed. It is an instructive example of how bad policies work out. Now we are sitting here with the fried pears, because the judges comply with the law and cannot allow new permits to pass with the PAS in hand. That is why we want effective policies. In this case, I heard it again at the round table meeting. We can't blame it on abroad. Unfortunately, in this case too, the Netherlands is the dirty man of Europe and we export to our neighbouring countries more than three times as much nitrogen as we receive from abroad. And 50PLUS would like to enjoy a varied nature. It does not want the Netherlands to become a large uniform city park. A few kilometres away from the Chamber is such a unique Natura 2000 site. Throughout the week many city people can enjoy the dunes. That is really nowhere else in Europe. 50PLUS is from searching for solutions. Just as we do when we avoid threatening reductions in pensions, we would like to talk about solutions here without defining the problems. If one thing has become clear in the round table yesterday, it is that there is no quick fix when it comes to nitrogen. Raising the standard is not a solution. The nitrogen is in places where it should be less and not more nitrogen. How do we get to less nitrogen in the places where it is important not to block things elsewhere? With satellite images, we can do a lot, but not enough. For 50PLUS, this is all the reason to focus programmes on local measurements. That also strengthens the basis of support. Buying-out of rights can help, but at the same time farmers do not want to lose their acquired rights. In fact, if they can, they want to produce even more nitrogen than they already do as long as there is room in the permit. I have previously asked questions about Heusden, where a new licence has just come out of bankruptcy, which will lead to more than 1200 cows. The answers give a worrying picture and show where the PAS failed again. I understand that farmers want to exploit these rights to the full for their own good, but the rest of society must also be able to go further. We expect constructive proposals from farmers. These can range from using even smarter techniques to a simpler solution such as increasing the grazing range from 1,000 to 2,000 or 3,000 hours per cow per year. But it also means taxes on nitrogen emissions. At the same time, measures to restore water management, such as raising groundwater levels, digging, mowing and grazing, will have to be actively pursued to reduce nitrogen in soil. But we need a lot more solutions. The question is also how to rebuild to address the housing shortage. How can we work on renewable energy, public transport and so on? In our view, matters of general public interest could already be excluded. As far as we are concerned, these matters are covered by that definition. I wonder what the cabinet thinks about that. I am also saying this because, as far as we are concerned, the assessment of nitrogen taxation should at the same time measure on permanent emissions rather than on the temporary high load when it is achieved. During construction, emissions should of course be reduced as much as possible, but as far as 50PLUS is concerned, this should not be the benchmark for licensing. Permanent emissions from animal husbandry are, after all, of a different order than the temporary burden on building activities. That is why not only the farmers as the biggest causers, but also all the other parties involved, such as municipalities, interest groups and Building Netherlands, want to know where they stand. It is good that traffic measures are being taken. That will also lead to fewer fatal road accidents. I end up with a quote from an almost 75-year-old poem by J.C. Bloem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u268	I don't know how long that quote is.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u269	I'm quoting, Mr. Chairman. "And then what is nature left in this country? A piece of forest the size of a newspaper."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u270	That's not so bad. Thank you, Mr. Van Otterloo. I now give the floor to Mr Futselaar on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u271	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Leadership. At a time when thousands of construction projects are standing still, when thousands of farmers come to demonstrate in The Hague and elsewhere, when more than a hundred natural areas are under severe pressure, society expects leadership from politics. That leadership seems completely absent. In May, the Council of State gave its ruling. It seems that the cabinet has remained on its hands ever since. When the Remkes Committee came up with its opinion, there was nothing ready, nothing figured out and nothing prepared. This is reflected in the government's nitrogen letter. For starters, the money. There is no euro added according to the letter. There's just a list of existing jars. It is impossible for this problem to be solved without additional money, really excluded! If you as a cabinet do not come up with money, your policy is hardly to be taken seriously, not even by other governments. The letter depends on unmade choices, everything has to be voluntary, every painful measure is shunned and the provinces are allowed to solve the misery. We're in a hurry, too. Some construction companies are already falling over. Thousands of Dutch people are waiting for a house with sorrow, unsafe bridges need to be repaired, dikes need to be raised. The cabinet is now, I quote, 'going into a careful process to achieve a territorial approach in the interests of both national and decentralised interests'. We do not have time at all for a process to arrive at an approach! Look at the totally chaotic situation that has arisen this week between the Minister and the provinces. The Minister is sending a letter. The provinces publish policy rules. The Minister distances himself from these policy rules. Half the provinces withdraw the rules and the other half make them stand. It's a mess, and it's been a week. I would like to ask Minister Schouten how this could have happened in this way. Does she have any faith in the rest of the trial? As far as the SP is concerned, we're gonna get to work today. Firstly, much more haste must be made with the restoration and expansion of our natural areas. And like Remkes says, it's gonna take new money. Then we need to start removing the largest peak loaders around the natural areas as soon as possible. Yes, that will often, but not always, be intensive livestock farming. They can't stay. That takes political courage. But let us also see where we can make a simultaneous profit, for example with the problems of CO emissions, the Water Framework Directive or odour problems. Then eventually, hopefully, we can reach a threshold for nitrogen as soon as possible, so that construction projects can be restarted. That's gonna be tough, including legal. It will certainly not succeed without these first two major steps: rapid restoration of natural values and a significant reduction in nitrogen emissions. I would specifically like to ask the directors to what extent they see an opportunity to introduce a temporary threshold previously, specifically aimed at a particular sector. For example, safety and housing. One of the developers affected by the nitrogen crisis is the government itself. For a number of projects, there may be the possibility of using the so-called ADC test, relying on the general interest. But every time we use this possibility, the total nitrogen pressure will rise. The Remkes Committee is therefore not very positive about this route. In any case, I would like to ask the cabinet to make a commitment to inform the Chamber in advance if the government intends to use the ADC test for a project. The Remkes Commission will not deliver an opinion on the aviation, freight and shipping sectors until next year. It would be absurd to do nothing until then. I am thinking specifically of the example of Lelystad Airport. This is located near nature reserves, with which it is very uncertain whether this can continue with the nitrogen pronunciation. In fact, it's not just insecure, it's unlikely. What's the Cabinet doing now? That continues cheerfully with the manning of the future airport with air traffic controllers and firefighters. It looks like the orchestra of the Titanic that gets the order to keep playing and act like nothing's going on, while the ship slowly disappears under the waves. Let the cabinet show leadership and do a serious review of these kinds of projects, regardless of the political arena of coalition agreements, but in the real world. In the words of the Remkes Committee: the world in which not everything can be done anymore. Finally, I would like to emphasise how appalling it is sometimes how coalition parties are taking up this debate. One calls for the livestock to be cut by half and the other says that there is no need for a reduction in livestock. Both are completely devoid of the policy pursued by this cabinet. Then you're mostly concerned with political profiling about the backs of both farmers and nature, aren't you? And as if that's not bad enough, at least CDA and VVD are questioning RIVM out of poverty. I find it painful how quiet it stays from the cabinet. We do not hear the Minister for Medical Care, who is responsible for RIVM, when a director is offended at a demonstration and has to leave under police supervision. If you don't say "I'm with my people," what kind of minister are you? Didn't we also have a Minister of Science? Doesn't it find something when scientists are put up as fraudsters? It's embarrassing. I'm rounding up. The nitrogen crisis brings with it many problems and challenges, but as far as we are concerned, the lack of leadership is the greatest challenge at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u272	As far as Mr Futselaar addressed me personally about RIVM: I asked questions about the RIVM model. But that's not my question. I heard Mr Futselaar talk about extending the Natura 2000 sites. Is the SP serious?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u273	What I said... Look, there are two ways you can do it. I think that Mr Geurts specifically asks me to extend the status of Natura 2000 sites, which are covered by the Habitats Directive. That would be something to talk about, but what I really mean is the establishment of buffer zones. So nature around Natura 2000 sites, which does not have that status, but which does reduce the nitrogen deposition on the Natura 2000 sites themselves. Remkes also talks about the idea of buffer zones. As far as I am concerned, that should be the priority.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u274	If I understand correctly, the contribution of the SP Group means that we have either a Natura 2000 site or a buffer zone in the Netherlands. And there are no more flavors. Where's the SP that stood up for the workers?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u275	The SP that stood up for the workers is here. We also stand up for other people and we stand up for nature. In that respect, we are a very nice, broad party. A form can be found at www.sp.nl. But of course the caricature that Mr Geurts makes of it is not correct. There are Natura 2000 sites and sometimes you need to strengthen them with a buffer around them to make sure you meet the conservation targets. If you don't, you'll lose in court time and time again when permits are challenged. This is not only a good idea from nature conservation in itself, doing something to preserve nature is a good reason, but this also strengthens our position to make it possible to build again in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u276	It happens to me more often this evening that I am invited to move to another party. You are not unique there in.... but Mr Geurts is not going to do so. But what matters now is that the SP Group is talking about Natura 2000 sites and buffer zones. But then you won't be able to live, work or live anywhere? Yeah, living in that area, but then it ends. Large Natura 2000 sites with buffer zones around them: that can't be SP's policy, can it? Where are we going in the Netherlands? I really thought the SP still had an ounce of concern for employment in this country and for the people who want to live here, but I don't see anything about it anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u277	I believe that Mr Geurts now has the idea that I want to use the entire province of Brabant as a buffer zone for nature. I may be able to talk about this one day, but not within the context of this debate. What are we talking about here? You need to be smart enough to buy pieces of land. Yeah, they can't be used for anything else. And maybe that's land you could build houses on. Or it's farmland, if that's what you want to ask. But you have to buy those land. In this way, hopefully, with relatively little money, you can reduce the nitrogen deposition on the natural areas. In the end, this can be even cheaper than other alternatives, such as buying out companies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u278	Finally, Mr Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u279	The answer doesn't get any better. I even heard the group laugh at the answer. That means that VDL can't go on anymore, that Bavaria can't go on anymore and list all the big companies in Brabant. The SP is really lost when it comes to protecting labour in the Netherlands. That is my conclusion after this contribution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u280	I will never pretend to be able to speak in front of this whole Chamber, but I think that virtually no one here can follow Mr Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u281	Thank you, Mr. Fuzzler. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u282	Mr. Chairman. Maybe it's good to start with the end. That is a kind of conclusion, and it is that the SGP was somewhat disappointed after taking note of the government's nitrogen letter. In short, we fear that we can read in it a certain sale of agriculture, with model calculations, while the Natura 2000 regime and industry are treated with velvet gloves. It has already been rightly said that the financial paragraph is at least a little weak, and I would put it a little euphemistically. Indeed, we agree: there is a legal reality, whether we like it or not, and it has to do with nitrogen emissions and deposition. Indeed, we need to invest more in better nature management, so that nature can handle more. Indeed, agriculture can make a contribution if the government cooperates, but that doesn't mean that we feel that you should start making a bit of a weird leap now. Let me start with the external netting. Will there be strict conditions, or will it soon be possible for Schiphol and other wealthy parties to allow Schiphol to phase out agriculture, as it were, by buying up nitrogen emission allowances? The SGP questions the removal of the allowed space and the 30% creaming of the ammonia chamber. Let's see how it works. Even without skimming you already realize a decrease in the deposition, because external netting in the calculation model of AERIUS can only continue, if on no hexagon, because that is what AERIUS works with, there is deposition increase. So that means: if you're even on one hexagon, you already have a drop on 100 other hexagons. It would be an unwise step to remove production rights from external netting. That's not necessary for the nitrogen story either. It makes external netting unnecessarily expensive, while the remaining tool is not to lock everything. It undermines the use of emission reducing techniques. I would urge the Minister not to apply these measures, the removal of the authorized space and the removal of 30% of ammonia. It frustrates the innovative process. Then there's the emission reduction. The cabinet is betting on demolishing the stables. That's actually way one. But why not invest more in emission reduction on the farmyard? Bet on preventing ammonia formation at the source. Farmers see opportunities for aeration of manure, dilution with water, less fertilizer use, more grazing, less nitrogen in the feed. We say: pick up that glove and get recognition and experimental space instead of for poaching procedures. We often get signals that after all positive tests and tests, with tried, thought-out and thorough-bred methods, with positive results, it takes a very long time to obtain a permit because of formal objections. Let me mention a sacred cow: lift the taboo on Natura 2000 sites. Mind you, that's a taboo that's not bad yet. I do not call for the removal of Natura 2000 sites, but rather the taboo to talk about those areas. Securitys and guarantees for areas of sometimes several dozen square meters: that has a huge impact. This does not give rise to a robust nature policy, which hinders it rather than a fair development of agriculture. Now the Natura 2000 policy is reminiscent of a model reality that does not do justice to the practice. We live in a densely populated country with millions of hardworking construction workers, farmers and other citizens. Specifically, the management of nitrogen-sensitive habitat chips really doesn't have to be done with a battalion of lawyers next door. Remove Natura 2000 status. That could be if there are areas elsewhere in the area with the same habitat. And that therefore offers opportunities for a robust nature policy. According to model theory, nitrogen can reach miles away from a project. This is difficult to demonstrate in practice. So there is every reason to draw a line. The calculation method of AERIUS already stops calculating the nitrogen deposition after five kilometers in the case of traffic, but not in the case of farms and construction projects. We have called it double standards. If we stop at five kilometers in emissions from traffic passing by, why do we not do so in agriculture, for example? And why not draw the line for construction projects, for example, at one kilometer? Indeed, this emission is a fraction of the emission of motorway traffic. Mr. Chairman. Start by area and as far as we are concerned directly with a threshold of 0,05 moles. That's one sixth of one goose poop. I've said it before. And that therefore refers to an entire hectare for a whole year. And that's only 1% of the lowest critical deposition value. Scientists also say: this is really not about anything anymore. Mr. Chairman. If we were to take that measure, you'd be pulling hundreds, thousands of projects and pulling them off the lock. I'm sure there'll be room for that if you work with good ecological support. It's definitely worth a try. Mr. Chairman. I had a few fine speeches. I'll have to keep that in mind, because I'm over my time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u283	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Moorlag on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u284	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As representatives of the people, we have received a number of very compelling signals from society over the past period. We must now give an interpretation of this, but on the condition that we serve the general public interest. I'm just gonna drop in with the door. I have understood the message from farmers, from the agricultural sector. But how am I supposed to understand that message? And what do I want to do with that errand? If that signal is "don't let us get lost; have an eye for our interests," I say: yes, I understand that signal, and I understand that and I want to do something with it. But if the signal is "keep your hands off the sector" and "nothing changes," then I say honestly: but it can't. Because the Remkes Committee has not said for nothing that not everything can be done. Mr. Chairman. Over the last few years, we have also received signals from society from young people who are concerned about their future security of living, as farmers are now concerned about their current security of living. We must also listen to those young people. They are concerned about the natural capital that is still available to them and future generations in the future. Are there sufficient raw materials? Are there sufficient resources? Is there still enough beautiful nature? Mr. Chairman. We are facing major changes. The Remkes Committee is leading us in that direction. She has said quite explicitly that not everything can be done. The PvdA Group supports the main thrust of the opinion issued by the Remkes Committee. This means that the agricultural sector, as well as other industries, should significantly reduce nitrogen deposition. I say that agriculture is not the only cause, but it is a very large cause of nitrogen deposition. So we need a clean-up. As far as the Labour Party is concerned, this must be a warm improvement. Could there be coercion in some cases? You can't completely rule that out. We must also be aware of dilemmas. In the Eemshaven there is a project on the table. A factory there wants to create 275 jobs and invest 300 million. If one pig farming, if necessary in the end, should be expropriated, then you must consider what matters most in the public interest. Mr. Chairman. When I say this, I say at the same time that farmers are not to blame for the problem. The agricultural system is the cause of the problem we are currently dealing with. For too long, we have had an old agenda that has focused too much on continuous growth, on production maximization at the lowest possible price. It can't go on like this. It must also mean moving towards a different agricultural system in which entrepreneurs can earn their living without being forced to increase their production to the maximum and thus to increase emissions. There must be a future for those farms that want to continue to farm under the system of circular farming. My question to the Minister is: how is she going to spare these companies? Mr. Chairman. Implementation also requires a confidence-building approach. That's what we're really worried about. Is there enough leadership? The coalition is divided to the bid. More campaign language has been spoken recently than administrative responsibility has been assumed. We're seeing a massive polarization. We see D66 sending discharge letters before they make a social plan for a reorganisation. And we see that the VVD has a fairy tale that you can do everything with technique. My question to the Minister is: does she even have the room of the coalition to function? Isn't the concept of circular agriculture a matter of grizzly elements? In the case of circular agriculture, we are based entirely on the idea of consensus, and at the moment we are seeing a very sharp polarisation. Can this go well as long as the coalition bickers and struggles? At that time, no house is being built. There's been a massive paralysis. The Labour Party wants a green and fair approach. The Remkes Committee's opinion is the basis for this. Mr. Chairman. It takes a lot of money. Where did that money come from? We can see that 1 billion is available to promote housing, but this money is also used as a source of funding to take measures to facilitate housing. That's impossible, isn't it, that we're going to spend that same amount on two different purposes? Whatever I'm worried about is the external netting. Mr Bishop already asked: aren't the big developers going to buy out the farmers unfocused, thereby affecting the cohesion and viability of the countryside? How's the secretary gonna prevent that? Then there are the remedial measures. Staff is the Habitats Directive, rather than the deposition of nitrogen. It has to be done through two tracks: reduction of nitrogen deposition but also nature restoration. Too little money means too little recovery and too little space for housing. We want to preserve nature. We want to pass it on to future generations. We also want to pass on society to farmers who are able to farm according to the circular farming principles. Mr. Chairman. Society has a right to security and clarity. That's why I'm saying to the coalition, stop bickering, stop squabbling. And I'll tell the minister to get to work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u285	Thank you, Mr Moorlag. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u286	The Dutch farmers, our fantastic farmers. They combine their hard work with dazzling innovativeness, animal welfare and care for the environment. We're no. One in the world. The whole world is looking at our farmers with great admiration. It's actually incredible when you think about how a relatively small country like the Netherlands can deliver such performance. You'd expect us to be proud of that. You'd expect our government to do everything in its power to accommodate those farmers, to give them space, to help them, to support them. Nothing could be further from the truth. Over and over again, absurdly strict regulations force our farmers to make huge investments, which seem to have been for nothing just a moment later, because new rules will come to an end. Instead of giving the farmers the room to do what they're so good at, they're being pinched and bullied. After the problem with phosphate and nitrate, there is now an artificial problem: the so-called nitrogen problem. There is a bizarre and factual misunderstanding in the imagery about nitrogen, namely that it would be bad for nature. The opposite is true. Nitrogen enriches the soil with nutrients and ensures that plants and trees can grow fully. Only certain very specific plant species, which do well on low-food soil, will disappear at a high amount of nitrogen and make way for species that love food-rich soil. So it certainly doesn't bring less nature, but only different nature. The real indigenous nature of the Netherlands meanwhile, thrives excellently at high nitrogen values. That is nature that needs no management, no subsidies and no recovery measures. Where heaths disappear due to too much nitrogen, beautiful jungle-like areas will rise, with alders, oaks, willows and so on. Wasn't it Goethe who wrote a beautiful poem about the Elzen King? Of course there are people who can enjoy a beautiful heath landscape. Those people are here. Dorre land. Those are the Party for the Animal People. But we have to ask ourselves whether this should be protected at all costs, simply because it was agreed once and because it was once placed in a directive. But whatever the case, you can't say that nitrogen is bad for nature. The nitrogen issue not only prevents farmers from being able to farm, but also that builders are no longer able to build. You'll just be waiting for a house or building a new business building and being told from one day to the next that it needs to be shut down. How could it have come to this, Madam President? As early as 2014, five years ago, lawyer Luuk Boerema argued that the PAS legislation under the EU Habitats Directive was untenable. He strongly advised to develop a plan B. The cabinet never did this under the responsibility of VVD Minister Kamp. In May of this year, the Council of State finally fired the PAS. In response, this cabinet set up a Remkes committee, which did not fulfil its mission, but did the opposite. The committee did not see how we could open the legislation and find legal goat paths, or what Rutte calls them all. No, on the contrary. The GroenLinksdream was realized. Everything has to be cut back everywhere. The maximum speed must be reduced, the livestock must be reduced, the housing must be reduced, everything must be reduced. Anything but immigration. Because VVD and CDA keep making sure that engine keeps going. Population growth must continue to increase. Immigration must continue. The pressure on housing, the pressure on consumption, the pressure on infrastructure must continue to grow, and those who are caught are the farmers, the hard-working Dutch. It is a disgrace, Madam President. We are dealing with a total accounting problem, not an environmental problem. A paper reality that people have come to believe in completely. It's what they've been all tied up in. What are we gonna do? We're gonna choke off our own people to keep mass immigration going. We ask the Minister once more. We are speaking here not only from the Forum for Democracy, with the two seats we have here in the Chamber, but also with the voice of society, as in the final scene of the Lord of the Rings, when those Ents, those trees are moving. That's the feeling I had at that big demonstration. The country is moving, the Netherlands is moving, is coming to The Hague and says that it is no longer possible to do so. I am also speaking on their behalf to the Minister and I say that the letter of 4 October must be withdrawn. All rules issued in the provinces must be immediately suspended. The farmers must be given the opportunity to introduce the German model, not only with a vague request to the Council of State, but with a firm commitment that that is what we are going to do. And if the Minister does not promise to do so, then we will see no other option but to table a motion of censure in the second term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u287	Mr Baudet presents himself as the great patron of the farmers. We saw that on the Malieveld yesterday. But the solution is still a wall around the Netherlands and that wall has the effect that all those consumers in Europe can no longer be reached. Not a kilo of cheese goes to Germany if you put a wall around the Netherlands. What he achieves with that is that there is not a penny left from Brussels to support the farmers he loves so much. Mr Baudet pretends to have a heart for farmers, but in the meantime he's tough on farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u288	Well, at least a funny word joke. Heart, hard as hell! It is wrong that I want to put a wall around the Netherlands. It is total bullshit, because we are very much in favour of trade. We are very much in favour of international contacts. As the Netherlands has always done, from the VOC time to now, we operate in the international force field, where we also perform incredibly well. The products that, among other things, deliver our farmers can really measure themselves with the very best in the world, just like those of other sectors. So on the contrary, no wall around the Netherlands. I don't understand where you got that crazy idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u289	Quite simply, if you leave the European Union, and you want to, because you are Mr. Nexit, then there will be a wall around the Netherlands, because then you can no longer export. And that is what this Dutch agriculture is, as you yourself have said, so big in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u290	That's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u291	But there's something else. Another pillar of Dutch agriculture is science. We have a really good institute, Wageningen University, where there is a lot of knowledge. That makes our farmers so capable of producing. But there is also science about nature and about how bad it is with nature and how we deal with the nitrogen problem. But you wipe it off the table in its entirety, and I find that so strange.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u292	Once more, in or out, the European Union is completely independent of your ability to trade. In fact, if you are not bound by the customs union that is the European Union, you have much more opportunities to trade with the rest of the world. So the trade-EU link is based on complete incomprehension of what the European Union is. There are a lot of countries in the world that are not in the European Union and are being driven by a huge amount of trade. I call the United States and within Europe Norway, Switzerland and Iceland. I have explained this to Mr De Groot once before. It doesn't really make sense and I think that's why we're going to send him some copies of The attack on the nation state. Maybe in the future it won't get so stuck on this really pertinent misconception. Trade can land with a lot of things. There is a global network of the World Trade Organisation. There are about 200 nation states in the world that all trade with each other: China and you name it all. The European Union is a customs union that obliges countries to meet all kinds of standards and to shift all kinds of subsidies back and forth. That is precisely a brake on our international trade ambitions rather than a facilitator of them. His second point is actually a question. I think the misunderstanding is in the word "bad." What Mr De Groot defines as bad is a deviation from what we once decided what that should look like in the Netherlands. "Bad for nature" means that the landscape changes a bit. That's called "bad," and then you have all kinds of activist institutions that present themselves with a kind of scientific aura and say, "that's bad, that's scientifically proven." What has been scientifically proven, or what is believed to have been proven, is not yet proven, but it seems that there is a certain transformation of the landscape. That you get a slightly different kind of vegetation, a different kind of trees, a different kind of plants and that's not necessarily bad at all, that's just a matter of... The country's changing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u293	Finally, Mr De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u294	Yes...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u295	Nature adapts. More trees, less dry land.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u296	Mr De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u297	You really have a story about Europe and the internal market, which the dogs do not like, and which in any case is of no use to the farmers. And for the rest, you wipe the floor with scientific institutions. You're sweeping the floor with judgments from a judge. Anything you don't like, you wipe it aside. We do live in a state of law! The highest judge in this country has said that we need to protect nature better, but you do that as a paper reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u298	No, what that judge said...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u299	Wait a minute!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u300	But that's not true.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u301	It is good that we now see what Mr Baudet puts aside if it is not convenient for him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u302	Yeah, it's true that I wiped the floor with those institutions. As far as the judge is concerned, I don't think the judge has said that we need to protect nature better. The judge said that the PAS, i.e. the way in which we dealt with these nitrogen permits and so on, was not compatible with the European system. I don't fight that either. I just think that we should use a different way of dealing with this, namely the German one. Indeed, it is our job, including as the House of Representatives, to look critically at judgments of judges and, if we consider it desirable, to come up with motions or decisions that can offer them a counter-power. That is the whole idea of the balance of power, which we in turn can respond to rulings by judges and coordinate policies.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u303	Mr. De Groot, I can see you having second thoughts. Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u304	Yes, very briefly, Mr. Chairman. Read the judgment and prepare yourself for a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u305	Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u306	The last speaker has a positive point. Where Forum for Democracy denies the influence of man on the climate, Mr Baudet says here: oh yes, man does influence nature, because it can change, for example because of excessive ammonia depositions. So it seems like profit...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u307	Except that I'm...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u308	No!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u309	...that that recognition is there. The question is whether Mr Baudet realizes that this beautiful nature, which he held a beautiful ode to last week on this place, then in the Netherlands changes so much that we get to sit with lots of nettles and grasses and birches, and that we lose species. Does he realise that the diversity of species is important for the functioning of ecosystems and that this is what the debate is about?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u310	First of all, I do not therefore qualify the situation that is now emerging as an 'excessive nitrogen deposition'. Exactly that normative judgment I contradict. There are higher values. 900 moles/hectare may go up to 1,000 or 1,200, but I don't see that as a problem. I don't see that as something bad for nature. I think it has an effect on nature. As far as diversity is concerned, it is true that if we now look at the extent to which there are heath landscapes and we give them a figure, you will get more birch forests. Then you can say that diversity decreases, because you get more birch forests and less heather. That's just an accounting issue. Whatever you can say is that certain species are less common in the Netherlands, but fortunately they are very common in Germany or other countries. So it's not a problem. It's not... What you do all the time is everything that changes in nature and everything that has to do with a natural transformation... soil and change things... everything is a problem, everything is excessive, everything is serious. But that's not it at all! There are no endangered species that only occur in the Netherlands and if they are less common in the Netherlands, we need to draw up a rescue programme or something like that. That's not the issue at all. It concerns a number of species of moss and a number of plant species that are very common in other parts of the world and that may be less common in the Netherlands. And you're just willing to sacrifice our entire economy, our entire peasantry and our entire construction industry, for the obsession you have with preserving the Netherlands, of exactly the heathlands that have once been laid down. And there comes a word joke, from my side too, I fit for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u311	Wow, we'd never heard that one before. I also find it a special experience to be accused by the Forum for Democracy that I would stick to a Netherlands that once was. My question is whether Mr Baudet at least recognizes that when it comes to the diversity of the Netherlands at the bottom of the lists, we have only 15% of the biodiversity that we had 100 years ago and that ecosystems can really tilt and get into a dangerous zone if you do not protect that species richness and give us a little chance to develop, so there is indeed a danger of the deterioration of nature if we lose species richness in favour of nettles and grasses, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u312	Short response, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u313	So I'm contradicting that. I absolutely do not believe that we are on the border of an ecological disaster in the Netherlands. I am absolutely not convinced of that. Our nature is doing just fine. Air quality is better than it has been in decades. All these doom scenarios serve a certain agenda, but they do not convince at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u314	Thank you, Mr. Baudet. Then we have come to the end of the first term of office. I'm just gonna take a look at the rulers. They say they're gonna need about 15 minutes. I shall now suspend the sitting until 10.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u315	We shall continue with the debate on the problem of nitrogen. We have come to the answers of the government. I shall first give the floor to the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u316	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think it is clear after tonight that the Council of State's ruling on the problem of nitrogen and the way in which we thought we had to deal with it in recent years has led to a serious situation in the Netherlands. We can see that nature has not recovered sufficiently or is recovering as a result of measures taken in the past. Furthermore, the judge says: obey your own law. He says: you must therefore take more action and also ensure that these measures do not lie far away in time. So they really must lead to a reduction in the nitrogen deposition. This has consequences for the granting of permits. We notice more and more how this works out in practice and we also see that it is starting to get pinchy in places. I shall now turn to a question from Mr De Groot. Does the Minister feel the urgency of the problem? Yes! He doesn't have to doubt that for a second. I feel both the urgency to ensure that our nature recovers and the urgency to ensure that our country does not stand still and that we can also grant permits for many activities which this Chamber also considers important. Housing is called incredibly much, but I also mention the transition that is needed as a result of the Climate Agreement. We must also provide for all these aspects, and we have a responsibility to ensure that these things are done. But I'm also putting my hand into my own bosom. We have also seen that this has led to uncertainty in many places. We have seen, in recent weeks and in recent days, what this uncertainty does, particularly in farm families, in farm families, and what that uncertainty entails. And we have seen that a lot of questions have arisen about the way in which the cabinet is trying to deal with the matter. I told you, I'm putting my hand into my own bosom. I think I could and should have done a number of things myself. That's what I discussed with the provinces this afternoon. There it was recognised that we should have done a number of things better on both sides. Mr Klaver asked very explicitly: how did all this go with the provinces, what happened and what was actually discussed this afternoon? That's how I summarize his question. Let me start by saying that we had a really good talk with the provinces this afternoon. How have we understood each other in the last few days and how have things gone? But more importantly, I think that the question has been discussed as to what we are going to do in the coming period. We have seen with each other that the policy rules are now different in a number of respects. There are provinces that still have the policy rules, there are provinces that have suspended them, there are provinces that have withdrawn them or have partially withdrawn them, and there is also a part where they say: we are in line with what is included in the letter of Parliament. It is precisely in order to ensure that we are not again unclear in this area that we are now going to examine a number of issues in legal terms. This is particularly true of the question: do we do enough for nature? That is, of course, one side of the question. But on the other hand, we also take the legal test on how you deal with property rights. And how are the rules consistent with these principles? Can you make sure you don't end up in all kinds of legal proceedings? Because then you're just suing each other, and that's not the point. Mr. Chairman. We have also noted that we have time on this point, because the policy rule we are dealing with here is the policy rule that applies to livestock farming, and that is where the competent authority, the cabinet and the provinces of the country itself, had already found that a number of things would have to be completed, among other things in order to avoid the cowboy behavior that I believe Mr Harbers was talking about, and those with the deepest pockets suddenly sit first class to buy up farms. It must be avoided that unclear situations arise around the question of what you do with the animal rights, with the stables that remain and those kinds of aspects. I have already announced in the letter that I will have to change the law on this and that we will therefore have to take the place of the external netting of agricultural holdings. So we take the opportunity to do the tests right. We are also going to involve case law in this process. What exactly does it mean in practice when you set certain policy rules; how does it actually work out? Okay, so we can get a good look at each other. The intention is to get out of there together. I specifically say "intention." Mr Klaver's question was: does the Minister recognise that the provinces can take care of matters themselves? That's true. Provinces themselves have the power to adopt policy rules. By the way, they are already different in this respect. Certain provinces draw up different policy rules than others in exactly the same cases. We have clearly stated that we are striving for clarity in the rules, while respecting the different responsibilities, in the knowledge that there are. But it is precisely in the context of the care that is now required that we want to take this right now and not do a few things very quickly. We want to think this through and then come up with a line.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u317	I think it is good to do all the questions relating to provinces at once. The Members of Parliament may then ask questions about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u318	Yes, Mr. Chairman. This was the part I wanted to say about the provinces. I have some more on what has happened over the past few years. But I'd like to go a little wider than just the provinces. It is more "what has actually happened after the ruling of the Council of State so far?', Because a number of Members were wondering whether nothing had happened at all. Well, no, we had to put a lot of things on the line in the meantime to make sure that we could actually come to a decision with the letter of 4 October. For example, we have inventoried, together with the provinces, what are the projects that could fall silent. You've been given the lists. We have had to redesign the AERIUS calculator completely, because that is a requirement to be able to determine how much deposition you have. If there's nothing, you can start running again the moment the permit opens again. If you do know how much deposition you have, you can see how you're going to compensate it. We have asked the Council of State for information to see whether we can work with a threshold and what is the possibility of setting it, but also what should be the opposite in order to keep the threshold legally sustainable. The granting of permission has started again. If you have zero emission, you can apply for another permit. In some cases, you have an ecological test. The ADC key can be applied. Those are all aspects that can be done now. In most places the licensing has started again. The Remkes Committee has delivered its report. So we've pre-sorted on a lot of things. I imagine it may not always seem like something practical comes out of it, but this is a really big operation. Behind the scenes you have to figure out some things very carefully before you can come to some decisions again. That is what we have been working on in the past period and these are the steps that need to be worked out again in the coming period. Let me stress that this letter is not the end of the matter. In fact, I think that I am going to tire you very much over the coming period with all kinds of letters that have to do with this, because this problem cannot be solved with one single blow. If only, I'd almost say. Let's take a look back, too. I think we've had some reconstructions in the newspaper in the last few days. The whole setup of the PAS, the discussion about the PAS lasted six years. I have sometimes called it a little presumptuous if I thought of myself that in four months I could suddenly put down something quite different which also tackles all the underlying issues. Actually, I still do. Moreover, we also know that we have to look at the possibilities and options we have every time, where the complicating factor is that nitrogen is not so much about emissions but about deposition. So if you take a measure, it doesn't have to have any effect in itself. That really makes it a lot more complex here. That also means that we are going to do that area-oriented. We're going to see what's needed in relation to those natural areas. We must then take steps each time on a sort of learning path in order to move forward in that direction. It's not a big big bang you can do. They are always steps, but we must continue to do so in order to eventually restore nature and allow for the granting of permits.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u319	We strive for uniformity, but we take each other's responsibilities into account. That sounds like a diplomatic way of saying we don't agree. I wondered what exactly happened to "Scouting: My will is law, whether the provinces want it or not," as yesterday in Trouw said. That's a completely different interpretation. Has Trouw been terribly wrong, or has something happened in the last 24 hours?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u320	That's not my verdict. In any case, I never say "my will is law," because then I will always be recalled by you. You always say, "Who is the highest organ in the world?" We also discussed this during the LNV budget debate last week. Mr Futselaar himself was there. Then the question was asked: does the Minister support the letter of 4 October? I said, "Yes, I agree." And I still do, because that is the starting point on which we have taken these steps. I now note that there are different starting points and that the provinces also have the power to make their own choices. We have said today that we see that uniformity is obviously desirable in this, that we are trying to work together on this, but that it does not necessarily mean that all provinces will end up at the same point, just as it is now. They already deal with the rules differently in certain areas. They are, in many cases, the competent authority to issue a licence and they can do so, but we have expressed our intention of getting as much uniform as possible out of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u321	The Minister said that things are now under legal review and that it is being checked to see if it is true. Does that mean that the policy rules of the provinces that depart from the Cabinet letter or those of the provinces that follow the Cabinet letter? Or is it both and is everything tested in principle?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u322	The issue that was on the table was: if you take the line of the cabinet or the line of some provinces that have applied it slightly differently, then what is legally sustainable enough in that way that you take sufficient steps to bring the deposition down? We have, of course, also tested our own principles in law, but we really want to take a closer look at this with the provinces together. On the other hand, there is also the point that I just mentioned, namely: if you remove certain latent space from somewhere, for example, can you? After all, they are also property rights. Aren't you going to get a whole legal battle on the other hand because people say this is my property; you're coming by now, government, and you're taking this now, are you allowed? These are exactly the two issues in which we also want to look at how these policies work out in practice in some situations. The policy rules are often paper, but I think Mr Harbers has just given an example of a situation in which it is not so obvious. You can't cut it with one pair of scissors. Sometimes you really have to dive into the casuistics to see if that policy rule also works in practice. That's exactly what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u323	Finally, in this round. Wouldn't this kind of review have been particularly useful if someone had done it between May and October in preparation for the Remkes report? This is one of the options that could have come out of it rather than having to do it very quickly after sending the letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u324	We have now found that there are different views and ideas. Did we all think earlier that it wouldn't have happened this way? Yes, of course it would have been worth a sweet thing to me if it hadn't have to be like this, but I'd like to take the opportunity to make sure we do it carefully. I hear Mr Futselaar saying that speed is required, but I have seen over the past week that speed and care sometimes have to be weighed against each other. This is a very specific situation in which we do not yet have the opportunity to open it up and therefore we have time to settle it properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u325	Last week, when I clashed with the Minister on this subject, she maintained that the German model had already been tested and that this could not be introduced in the Netherlands because that was precisely what the Council of State's ruling was about. Now I read in her new letter, dated 15 October, that she wants to examine the possibilities for introducing the German model. I consider that to be a modest victory, but what I do not read in that letter is really a matter for us, and that is exactly what is being submitted to the Council of State. That's not what that letter says as such. On the contrary. It states that, on the one hand, it is submitted to the Council of State in what way a threshold can be used. I also read in the letter that it is being considered with all kinds of partners whether wider limit values can be applied. That's two different trajectories. On the contrary, we would like the German model as such to be formally submitted to the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u326	I didn't say last week that we're going to look at the German model. I said: we have several models that we will also put next to the model we have. A Danish model has been mentioned. There is also a German model. In particular, the German model sees a high threshold. I have indicated to Mr Baudet that we have asked the Council of State whether we can proceed to a threshold if we take sufficient source measures. In addition, the issue is that it takes some time for some of the source measures to produce, while you would like to be able to introduce a threshold quickly. How many assurances do you have that these source measures will actually be implemented? In that context, I said that we have already submitted the idea of a threshold to the Council of State. But the Council of State is not a consultative office where we can all ask questions but put them down. It really is a legal basis for a number of things that you have to formulate very sec. You don't have to ask again "if we have that model then" or "if we have this model then" or "if we do it this way." The issue of the threshold and its legal sustainability lies with the Council of State, but I am not going to put all kinds of variants in the Council of State again. He's not for that, and that's not his role.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u327	That is bullshit, of course, because it is just a matter of legislation. We have to change the law, we have to change the nature management decision, and we have to adopt the German model. Our Dutch model was shot at the end of May. We need to replace the German model for that. You can just promise that right now. You can simply say: 'I take back what I said on 4 October. I shall suspend the measures resulting from this in consultation with the provinces. We're gonna turn around right now. We're going to introduce that German model as soon as possible. Instantly there will be room for farmers again." Why don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u328	Because there is a ruling from the Administrative Court of the Council of State, which has said: The Netherlands cannot just anticipate all sorts of perhaps-to-be-win measures leading to the improvement of nature. Mr Baudet would very much like to say, I hear him say, that I am introducing a threshold without going against it. But our legal analysis is not only ours, but also that of lawyers we consulted is that you are then exactly flagged back by the judge at the point where we already did.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u329	But that is exactly what Mrs Schouten said last week and what we contradicted. Now I read in her letter that she is still looking for possibilities to introduce the German model. So you contradict yourself!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u330	No, I indicated last week, also to Mr Baudet, that there is already a question before the Council of State about introducing a threshold. That is not Germany's threshold. We then ask what measures still need to be taken. That is a very specific element which Mr Baudet always does not mention. Last week, I said that a lot of money could actually be worth a lot of euros at some point. Then you can say that these pennies do nothing in themselves, so we don't have to compensate them because they all don't represent anything, but the judge said that a lot of pennies ultimately produce a lot of euros. And that's what we do to nature. So you're gonna have to counter that to compensate for that. I do not hear Mr Baudet talking about this. And I can imagine that, because these are sometimes rather complicated measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u331	No, but the judge didn't say that either. The judge didn't say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u332	Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u333	So it's not. The judge didn't say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u334	No, but the minister was in the process of answering. Or were you ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u335	Yes, you know, Mr President, I hear from Mr Baudet what he very much wants and I cannot ask another question. My second question would be: how does Mr Baudet ensure that the restoration of nature will take place and that the nitrogen deposition will go down? That is a clear statement from the Council of State. It says that the nitrogen deposition has fallen too little and that it has withheld too little to come to nature recovery.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u336	The nice thing is that we held a hearing on that very subject on Monday.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u337	Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u338	I'm sorry, that wasn't Monday, but Wednesday, so yesterday was. It's been a long time; it feels like four days ago. We were the first to do this and yesterday's hearing showed that all the experts agree with us. They also say that the calculation model on the basis of which all statements are made à la cents by Mrs Schouten is no good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u339	"From the Minister."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u340	The Council of State says: you do not have enough information, you cannot determine at that level of detail whether or not there is too much nitrogen. We do not think there can be too much of it at all; that is 'bogus' science. Anyway, even if you have that as a standard, that model still sucks. The Netherlands averages tens of kilos of nitrogen per year and our threshold is 1, 2 or 3 grams.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u341	Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u342	At that level, it takes place. So you have two things to do. You must realise that the calculation model is not correct at all and that it cannot say anything about what is happening at that small level, in all those local places. Secondly, you need to raise the threshold, as in Germany, so that you create space. That's my answer, very simple.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u343	Yes. Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u344	That's why we organized that hearing so you'd see it, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u345	Mr. Baudet, you really need to stick to the interruption agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u346	It's a good thing you're putting me on trial.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u347	This point has been discussed extensively. You have even tabled a motion for a resolution on this matter. I think it's been rejected. You've made your point. The Minister disagrees. At some point it is up to the Chamber to enforce something by majority or not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u348	She's asking me a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u349	No, but you've responded to it enough. I'm going to see Mrs. Ouwehand now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u350	Perhaps then the Minister would like to confirm that the Council of State has already looked at the RIVM model and has considered that it is sufficiently precise to base decision-making. So we didn't need that whole input into the hearing. What I do want to ask the Minister about is that she is right to say that it must be tested legally and that it must be legally sustainable. Now, in yesterday's hearing by all natural experts and legal experts, it was said that the principles set out in the letter of 4 October. legally untenable. The voluntary nature is therefore legally unsustainable and there is strong criticism of an area-based approach. The argument is that you must also take national measures and have certainty. How does the Minister respond to that reflection of the legal experts on the principles in the cabinet letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u351	Important in everything we do is that it goes back into nature to a level of conservation that is sufficient. That varies enormously from one region to another. You have a number of nature areas where that is almost the case and you have nature areas that are very far away. That is exactly why the cabinet has opted for the area-based approach. In such an area, you have to look at what the task is, what the sources are with which we can lower the nitrogen, what it is down to and what the activities in those areas are. Sometimes you want them to go on, which means that we need nitrogen in order to be able to develop these activities. If I take national measures, they may not have that much effect in themselves at all. So I will take a measure, but it does not ultimately lead to a reduction in the deposition in a certain nature reserve. Then I don't think we're trying to solve the problem. I also heard in the hearing that people said that the legal feasibility is debatable because property law was entered into. I don't hear Mrs Ouwehand about that, but that's always the selection you make in what you hear in a hearing. On the contrary, we are looking very directly at what is needed in a certain nature reserve and what measures we can take there. It is not the case that we leave that to the provinces. We as the Empire have an important role to play in this. That's what we do with the provinces. Some of the powers lie with them, some of them with the cabinet and we need to get together very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u352	The Minister does hear me about property law. In fact, that's what the Animal Party started to do when the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen was invented, because we saw this coming. The question to the people who supported it was: who are the problems for? Do entrepreneurs have to return permits again or should taxpayers pay for buy-outs? If you go into ownership, the government will have to compensate. I just asked you that. But back to my question. It seems to be again a repetition of the situation that is common in agriculture. There are legal experts who warn. We also have a report from Wageningen University. It says that the area-based approach is insufficient. National measures are also needed. And it is very debatable whether this voluntary nature is legally sustainable. The cabinet responds with: well, we think it can be done. That's not a legal review, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u353	You can assume that we also ask our lawyers what is sustainable or not. I've just explained that we're going to have a good look at that with the provinces as well. But I also say to Mrs Ouwehand that it may best be that we are still looking for the next period: what can and cannot be done? The Remkes Committee has also indicated that there is not one grand design that we can simply carry out to make sure that something happens in all those natural areas. You need to look at what's needed and what you can do there. Both the Empire and the provinces have a responsibility in that and we both take responsibility for that. Of course, that is to ensure that we know as much as possible legally as possible whether this is possible, but it may also be that we always have case law in the coming period and that we get case law on what can and can't be done. That's what we need to learn from each other. I'm gonna give that disclaimer a few minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u354	The Minister is shielding with her own legal experts, but I'm really looking forward to the legal analysis. I asked if it was available to the coalition parties when they came together to make the choices, which resulted in the cabinet letter. If there was that legal analysis, I think it would be a good idea to share it with the Chamber. We speak to lawyers who have always been right throughout this history, if the government did what the minister is doing: we have chosen a few starting points, you do not have a solution at once, but we do think it can be done now. I think it would be better to leave the legal experts who have always been right in this dossier to speak.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u355	The legal counsel we have is the state's attorney. You know that the cabinet does not share the advice of the national attorney, but that we do share what is legally sustainable and what is not. Could that lead to a different outcome if there's a trial? Yes. We also asked for information about the PAS once. We have now seen what the judge's final verdict has been. So I am not going to say that everything is legally infallible, but I do say that we must work on reducing the deposition. Activities that we have should therefore not lead to an increase or compensation of the deposition. We know very well that we have to do that. By area, the extent to which you can do that and at what rate differ, because in some areas the task is enormous and in some areas it is actually okay. In those areas, you have to make that assessment exactly. If we take these measures and if we also need nitrogen in this way, we will of course also consider whether these measures are legally sustainable in that area. Of course, that will also be tested there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u356	Has the minister come to the end of the block of provinces?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u357	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u358	I had already asked a question about the timeline in the scheme. I have asked for this in my own contribution. I have been very specific about the contacts there have been for the letter of 4 October, or the Ministry has helped in drawing up the policy rules to look at that letter, when the provinces have called that there was a difference between the letters, and why the Minister replied here in the Chamber on 10 October that her letter is leading, while on 11 October in the Provincial States of North Holland it was stated that the provincial rules would be the correct one. Is the Minister still gonna go into that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u359	I have already said in the letter this afternoon that I am really prepared to make a full analysis of what has happened, but that I do not want to do so without involving the provinces. I don't think it's fancy if I did, and I don't think it's productive either. I can't do that in one afternoon and I can't do that tonight. If I do that, I'll do it together with the provinces and in a way that we'll create an image that'll be recognized from both sides.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u360	I'm asking about the Minister's actions. We do not control the provinces here; we control the minister. I'd like to know from the Minister how he acted. I would like to look forward to the timeline she is talking about, but I have also asked very specific questions this evening. That's not a whole timeline, but it's about four very specific moments. Actually, I'm expecting an answer to that tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u361	I would like to involve that in that timeline, so that I can clearly reflect how it happened. I understand that it is very interesting for Mr Klaver to see exactly what has happened and what has not happened. I just indicated that we sat together this afternoon and that we said from both sides that we could have done things differently. That's what I said, but that's what the provinces said. It's always a sort of search of the blame game, but I really don't think that's the issue here. If there's anything to blame, it's both sides. At the same time, when we are engaged in this search to really ensure that we are moving forward in this dossier, we are also doing so on both sides. That's how we're in this together, and I'd like to hold on to that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u362	I'm sorry, but I do find this answer problematic. This isn't about the blame game. There's been chaos on this file. There has been a great deal of confusion. I am asking here, as the government's controller, for crucial moments in recent weeks: how did this happen? We're not getting the answer to that. The Minister says that we must establish this together with the provinces. The letter went out on 4 October. I ask when there has been consultation on this letter with the provinces. During the discussion of the agricultural budget, the Minister said: no, my letter is leading. Provinces feel mugged by it. As a result, farmers went to the province house in Friesland. And then to Groningen, where they crashed the door. That's a big deal. So it's fucking relevant. That is why I really ask the Minister to reflect on these specific points. What happened there? She knows damn well, because she was there herself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u363	But then I'm going to tell my side of the story, where the provinces have their own side of the story. I think it's the most productive thing to put that next to each other. I'm gonna do that. I also promised to send that timeline. But I want to be careful about that, so I'm not gonna do that tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u364	I'm persevering. I can imagine that the Minister would like more time for the overall overview, but I am now asking very specific questions about what happened on 3 and 4 October and here in the debate on 10 October. The Minister can answer that. I really do not think it is possible to refer to the provinces now. We don't control the provinces. The provincial states must look above all at what Deputy States have done. We control the minister and it's about her actions. And then I don't care what the provinces say, I want to know how the minister looks at that, what her observations are. These are the questions that I think we should ask here and which are very relevant to this debate, because it has gone wrong and gone well. To understand how we can prevent that next time, I want answers, not for the blame game, but to understand what went wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u365	I have said that those answers will come, but not here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u366	What the Labour Party is about is a confidence-building and effective approach. I also think Mr Klaver's question is legitimate. Of course, this file has a history. After the judgment of the European Court of Justice, nothing happened for months. If the European Court of Justice issues an orange code, I think it is time to bring in the garden chairs and parasols, or at least to develop scenarios. The chance that the Council of State would make this statement was very great. Then what happens to the letter and the difference between the policy rules. I'm not interested in a blame game either, but there's really a lot at stake. Thousands of permits have just stopped. Trust in society has been seriously damaged. If you get these kind of wrinkles, which seem to be wrinkles, which evoke intense emotions, that also raises the question of whether we can rely on a decisive approach in the future. Then I think Mr Klaver's question is extremely relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u367	We have sat around the table this afternoon, and there we have noticed that things have not gone well, but that we need to work on it now in order to ensure that we are able to put things right in time and work it out properly. I have described the steps we intend to take, including to ensure that they are done carefully. Again, it's on one part. You say that thousands of permits are now closed, but the authorisation has been reopened in most places and can continue. This is a very specific case, namely external netting in livestock farming. That wouldn't open in the short term anyway, because there's gonna be another change of law on my side. So it is not right to create the picture that all permits are flat because of this fact, and that is not true either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u368	I don't tie it to this fact either, but it did. There has also been a lot of emotion in society. There are demands that the letter should be removed. I believe that the Minister should provide clear wine, including in this debate, because we have a demand for a representative of the people and for the Minister. Is the Remkes Committee's opinion still valid, is the letter of 4 October still standing? How is this area-based approach, which has so far been very much made up of procedural arrangements? What results can we expect soon? That is the question that society is asking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u369	I understand that you say: what is going to happen in the coming period and what steps are being taken now? I hadn't gotten there yet. Then I'm in the block about what matters are going to be addressed, for example around the area-based approach. We have asked the King's Commissioners, but in their role as the King's sovereigns, to shape the processes of the area. There are those who have been actively working on this. It differs because it is in one area more than in the other, also how much nitrogen-sensitive nature you have. On 9 October, I met with the Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs with a representative of the Dutch Sheriffs. We've said we're gonna talk about progress every month. I will inform the House of this, so that we keep an eye on progress in these areas. That is a very legitimate and legitimate question, and the Chamber will be informed of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u370	Rounding up. Then I would like to ask the Minister whether she would like to give the Chamber an overview of the milestones it has set itself. When did the natural recovery take place? When has a certain level of nitrogen deposition been reached in certain areas? I think society has a right to see concrete goals or milestones. Then we in the Chamber can also get an impression of whether the route is good and whether the intended results are achieved within an acceptable time limit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u371	That varies from one region to another. It's annoying to repeat that all the time. If you look at certain areas, such as areas around De Peel, you can see that the situation there is much heavier than in another nature reserve. I cannot therefore impose a kind of generic objective, so that 'then that has been achieved'. You have to look into such an area: what is the state of conservation of nature and do all the measures you take lead to a reduction in nitrogen deposition? Eventually, in one area you will arrive at a certain state or a favourable state of conservation faster than in another. We have to be so realistic, because otherwise it will mean that in certain areas you will really be unable to do any more economic activity in the coming years. I think Mr Moorlag agrees with me that this does not ultimately contribute to the viability of certain areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u372	Can the Minister tell me what the average nitrogen deposition in the Netherlands is currently?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u373	The average? That's not so interesting. You have to look at the nitrogen deposition per area.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u374	Okay, but can she tell me what the average nitrogen deposition in the Netherlands is, about? How many moles per hectare, approximately?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u375	That's not interesting, because that's not the point. It's the nitrogen deposition per area. That's what we explain all the time. Nitrogen deposition in general can until I don't know how much skyhigh go if there is no nitrogen-sensitive nature; then we don't have to do anything. It needs to be deposed to nitrogen-sensitive nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u376	I conclude that the Minister does not know that. Does she know how much the average nitrogen deposition was in 1990?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u377	And do you know you're running out of interruptions? I'll just give it to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u378	I almost torched her to the ground by now. Do you know that? It was twice...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u379	If this is torching to the ground, Madam President, then I can still have something from Mr Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u380	It was twice as much. In 1990 the average nitrogen deposition in the Netherlands was more than twice as much as today. It was then about 2,000 moles per hectare on average. Now that's about 900 moles per hectare. Of course, it changes. That's not contradicted. But what is undisputed, which is not controversial, even the activist RIVM recognizes this is that in the Netherlands there is now much less nitrogen in the soil than 30 years ago. And that's right. That is consistent with the observations, because we emit much less, we have much less cows and so on. So purely and only the equation of 30 years ago and now should lead to the conclusion that nature is now in good shape if you find a problem with nitrogen. There's nothing going on. He's already going down really bad.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u381	We can go back to having a whole college of nitrogen on this. It is true that the deposition in the Netherlands has decreased. Many measures have already been taken to this end. Nitrogen's got the property "I'm gonna give some kind of lecture "that accumulates it in the ground." So the moment it decreases, that doesn't mean it's gone in the ground, in the soil.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u382	No, Mr. Baudet. You're asking a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u383	Mr President, I would almost like to offer that Mr Baudet just once with a nitrogen expert... I recognize that the nitrogen deposition has decreased. Only, it's also about the amount of nitrogen in the soil. And it accumulates. That is why we are also taking conservation measures, for example. If you start plagging, you take a layer off the ground, so that a part of the nitrogen is removed. That's more beneficial for nature recovery. I want to give a whole lecture, Mr. Chairman, but I think it would make more sense if... And I don't even know it perfectly yet. There are a lot of scientists who know that very well. I can offer to ask a scientist to speak with Mr Baudet for once. I'll take care of that for him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u384	Yeah, listen...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u385	So it's not about emissions. It's about deposition. That's exactly what's decreasing. That is the whole point of my intervention and I note that you did not know how much nitrogen is on average and that you are now bluffing it by saying 'oh, I do invite an expert'. I think that's really weird.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u386	I suggest you move on. But first, Mr. Clover.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u387	I'll interrupt you one more time with a very specific question. The Minister does not want to answer the questions I asked earlier, so I have already had to repeat four times the questions I asked in my first term. Let me get one out that I think is very important. The letter sent to the Chamber on 4 October. At what point has this been discussed with the provinces?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u388	October 3rd.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u389	What was the response of the provinces to this and how was this in line with the policy rules they wrote to?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u390	Then I come back into all kinds of interpretations, because then I'm going to interpret for the provinces what they thought about this. I think you really should discuss that with the provinces themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u391	This discussion has just taken place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u392	I am not asking about the interpretation of the provinces. I ask: what was the reaction and what did the Ministry do with it? What was the response of the provinces to this and what did the Ministry do with it? That's the Minister's responsibility. I am not asking about the role of the provinces, I am asking how the Minister dealt with that information, how she acted. And that's important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u393	I can say two specific things about that. We have discussed two matters quite extensively there. That is the introduction of a threshold. That would help the provinces very much, because there are often smaller permits there. The question was whether we could proceed with that. You read in the letter what came out there: that we are going to investigate it, because we think we should see if we can or cannot. And it was also about the question we were discussing here. That involved certain matters relating to livestock farming, if you go there externally salading. If you do not lay down further rules in the manure legislation, in the Fertilisers Act, where does that lead? My request was: can we not just take a closer look at it, because I think I need to amend the law on that as well? Anyway, let me put it this way, that has been my experience of the conversation. These are the two changes made to the letter, because we have also discussed them very specifically with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u394	I ask for this because the Minister said in the debate a week later that her rules were guiding. Was that made clear to the provinces on 3 October? Has it been made clear at that time that the letter from the cabinet would be leading and that there was therefore no room for the provinces to depart from it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u395	That was not the question in the debate last week. The question then was: is the Minister behind that letter and what it says? And I said, yes, that's the starting point. It is difficult for me to mention anything else as a starting point for what I wrote down myself. I mean, I'll be dealing with my own letters in a week.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u396	No, Mr President, at that time the Minister literally said, in response to questions from Mr Lodder, that the letter from the cabinet is leading and that this is also shared by the provinces. It was not said at the time: I support this approach. I understand. No: this is leading. And that has been the reason for farmers in Friesland to go to the province house on Friday. When has it been shared with the provinces that the government's approach is leading and that it is not intended that provinces should deviate from it? When was that shared with the provinces?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u397	But that's not how we talked about it. Mr. Klaver is looking for all kinds of things. Once again, I really want to give further information on that timeline, but I do want to do so together with the provinces, because we are in this together and I do not want us to have all kinds of things, images and ideas about certain parts here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u398	The Minister has said this twice or three times. One final comment on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u399	It is an essential point and the Minister is now trying to park it away and does not answer it. I ask the Minister when she shared this with the provinces. That's just a factual question. It's not about the experience of provincial leaders. When did the Minister inform the provinces that the letter of 4 October is leading and that the provinces are not supposed to depart from it? When did the minister let those provinces know?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u400	There's no mention of it that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u401	In what way?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u402	We discussed the letter that was there. I have just indicated which two points have been discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u403	So there's never been any mention of the cabinet letter leading?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u404	We draw up a letter with each other and we talk together, together, about: can this still be done and can it still be done? On the one hand, I wanted a few things to be put on hold for a while, so that we could arrange them. On the other hand, there was a request from the provinces to further examine that threshold. If we bring that together and work this way: there was a letter from October 4th. That was my letter, but we had also prepared it in consultation with the provinces. It lays down basic principles for netting and the like.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u405	A slightly different angle. Provinces are an independent authority. At the least or least when we talk about nature in this house, the Minister always says: no, I am not saying anything about that, because the provinces are competent and responsible. Here the Minister has very much radiated that she would not accept that the provinces would apply a certain method of netting that deviated from her line. What is left of this independent competence of the provinces?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u406	There is always that independent competence of the provinces.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u407	Let me say it with caution: at least the impression has been given that this would not be the case and that the provinces would be subordinate to the Minister's will.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u408	No, I'm not hierarchical in a relationship with the provinces, and I'm not in this case either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u409	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u410	I have said a few things about the area-based approach and also about how the granting of authorisation has got back on track and how it can be authorised. In particular, there was a question about voluntaryity, in relation to the discussion on that point. I thought it was Mr Klaver who asked: can forced shrinkage be excluded? Several parties on the left have requested that. Or can't you rule that out? I hardly dare to say it anymore, but the letter of 4 October states that voluntaryity is the starting point when it comes to repairing. That's not gonna happen either. I think Mrs Dik-Faber has just set out very nicely what specific situations you can then have. Then you're dealing with farmers who might want to quit. Then you're gonna see how we can do that in a way that helps the farmers to do it in an orderly way. Then it may be that a farmer will be moved, for example. In doing so, we must offer good arrangements to make this possible. It may also be that a farmer in such an area makes different choices, which makes him actually in line with the area. I have said it before: there was a very nice video of a farmer sitting next to a Natura 2000 site at Nieuwsuur recently. He had adapted his operations in such a way that this could be done quite well next to that Natura 2000 site. That's also an option. So there are plenty of options that we can choose, where the belief of the cabinet is that you get the most support for this kind of thing if you do it on a voluntary basis.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u411	Were you ready at this point? Yeah? Then Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u412	It's a crucial point. Just now, the Minister didn't answer the question, but I really want to know. Was there a legal analysis produced by the Ministry of Agriculture, Nature and Food, before the cabinet came to this letter and thus chose the principles: voluntaryness, area-oriented, all these principles in the letter? Because that ministry is responsible for protecting nature in the Netherlands. I want to know what legal analysis the officials had made. Or didn't they do it at all? Was there? If so, can the Chamber have it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u413	I have just said that we are also asking the national attorney for this kind of legal test. We are now keeping records of how many times we ask the lawyer, and I have such a feeling that at the end of the year we stand on one side, partly because of these issues. You want to look very closely at this: if we do this, does that really lead to effects? We know a lot of farmers want to stop. We know that they are farmers who are close to Natura 2000. If you're smart about that kind of thing, it could mean one time a farmer stops and the other time he moves or adjusts his business.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u414	I'm asking for this. We had the agricultural budget last week and I said that I do have to deal with the Minister, because we have to make firm choices and we see a coalition working against her. But if the Ministry and if the Minister did not have a clear legal analysis prior to those discussions, then she herself is asking for the problems we have seen. The VVD simply claims in the newspaper that we will get there voluntarily! Then she gives VVD and CDA all the space to do what suits them rather than operate within the frameworks that are there based on the analysis that her ministry should have produced. So I want to understand the Minister's difficult position, but she must do her homework properly first, otherwise she will give the coalition parties, who do not want to, a lot of space to train things.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u415	The discussion is about how to reduce the nitrogen deposition and I hear Mrs Ouwehand always confusing it with a shrinkage of livestock. I'm not ruling out a shrinkage. Last week, for example, I announced that I opened up the warm clean-up of pig farming and that this would lead to a shrinking of the pig population. Nor can I rule out the possibility that this will happen here, but it seems that Mrs Ouwehand will only benefit if there are at least one x number of animals less. What if we can achieve a reduction in the nitrogen deposition and that also happens in a way that we get companies that make Mrs Ouwehand very happy, is it not good for Mrs Ouwehand? I have just mentioned the example of an extensive company that actually produces very much in connection with nature. Then it is a good way to give farmers development prospects and development space, while at the same time achieving our natural goals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u416	But none of that was the question. The question is not what would Mrs Ouwehand want here or not. The question is: within what legal frameworks can this coalition opt for a little less animals or a little less cars or a little less biomass plants? It is a question of what is legally sustainable and what choices should result from it. The Minister has a responsibility to ensure that the coalition makes choices within those frameworks. It is her responsibility to make clear to the coalition what can and cannot be done, given the nature conservation obligations. And I don't have to explain to the Minister that the longer you wait with clarity, the more annoying it is for the farmers. So the Minister himself is actively involved in unclearness, false hope, greater chaos and unnecessarily long shut down the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u417	Mr President, I am repeating myself again, I am afraid. We are now talking very specifically about agriculture, and I understand that from the perspective of the Party for Animals, because it very much wants to see a different and smaller agriculture. But we are taking even more source measures! This discussion is not just about agriculture. I have just said that we are going to look in those areas at what is needed to ensure that the deposition goes down and that nature can recover. We need to see whether the measures we are taking are sufficient and what else we need to counter. I understand that Mrs Ouwehand prefers to see some kind of great movement in the direction that suits her very well, but I think we are doing justice to it by really looking at the impact in those areas, taking our measures and then looking at whether that is sustainable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u418	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u419	Yes. Mr Harbers has asked a number of specific questions about rules that hinder innovation. Can these obstacles be removed? Talks about that are already going on and we are looking at what is needed for that. He also specifically asks for a kind of balance, so that a farmer knows: these are the considerations that can be made and these are the options you have; I would almost call it a menu of choice. Then such a farmer can also form a well-balanced opinion of what is best in his case. I should take a look at that with the provinces too, because that is something we should do together. But I understand the direction Mr Harbers is thinking about. I think we should take a good look at how we're gonna do that. Mr Harbers also asked for the restoration of Natura 2000 sites. Can I guarantee that this money will really be used to strengthen the Birds and Habitats Directives? We're going to free up resources to promote nature recovery. That's what I'm saying to everyone who asked where the money is. Of course, we are also going to see how we can best use it, but that too is a joint action with the provinces. We both benefit from the fact that that money actually benefits from it. That is something we need to look at with the provinces, but it is clear that preference is given to what can bring those goals closer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u420	On the first point: fine to discuss that, but I am also looking for the right short-term interpretation, that it is indeed that choice menu where you are equally financially cared for at all times, with all options. About the provinces. I hear what the Minister says, namely: we have to talk to the provinces about this, we have a common goal. But I asked with just a little more focus. The judge's ruling is really about a credible restoration of nature, precisely where the objectives of the Birds and Habitats Directives are concerned. We have seen in the past that provinces also bought from their own budgets all kinds of areas, without having thought carefully about questions like you also have money for management and you can guarantee all that. In the short term, we have a battle in nature, precisely on those things that are also required of us from Brussels. I am therefore looking for a way to use that money in a very targeted way, so that we do not have to see again in a number of years that in itself money has been spent on nature, but not exactly at those points where it helped us, for example, to pull back the building permits.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u421	The current nature restoration measures are specifically designed to bring closer and also protect the habitats that are included in the European regulations. The provinces do that. We have decentralised nature policy, so that is always something you need to look closely at. The same goes for the gear. That too is something I have to talk to the provinces about. But I can also tell from the provinces that they are really looking at how they can bring that favourable conservation status closer, with everything we are doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u422	In addition, is it also part of the mission of the sovereigns to look at not only how to develop, but also what we do in these Natura 2000 areas and whether these are the good things?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u423	More generally, we have included in the mission that they also reflect what is needed for the restoration of nature. This is already known in many areas, because the provinces themselves keep track of this. This restoration of nature is really related to the European task, but we can also, if necessary, bring it to the attention of the national lords.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u424	That last one would be very nice. Especially since the Minister said last week: we remain in constant consultation with Brussels, but we are also constantly looking to see if we have any arguments to ensure that we get there again in the Netherlands in this area. It would therefore be good if the results of this inventory were to be constantly taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u425	I'll pass on the question. Indeed, these consultations take place fairly regularly. Mr Harbers also asked at what rate the improvement requested with regard to the measurement system and the calculation models would be worked at, following two motions adopted. In 2019 we have already expanded the measurement network with twenty measurement points for nitrogen oxide and we will further expand the measurement of dry deposition of ammonia in 2020. The motions also call for this year to see where further improvement is possible. I asked a committee of experts to advise me on this. It's quite specific matter, so you really have to involve a number of people who know a lot about it. They will come with an opinion in the first half of 2020, so that we can follow that up quickly. Mr Geurts has specifically raised a number of issues or formulated a number of principles that are important to him, so to speak. I think that part of it is also recognizable in the letter as a starting point. He asked for the motion on the implementation of the measurements. I just answered that question. He also asks about the ecological justification of the threshold. We have laid down the threshold at the Council of State with the request to provide information on it and to indicate what is needed to ensure that that threshold is actually legally sustainable. He also specifically proposes to use the agricultural land purchased for permanent holdings. We have included in the letter that the development perspective for farmers should be partly focused on circular agriculture, which we also help to take steps there because it also contributes to the reduction of nitrogen deposition. That is, of course, part of it. That's included in the letter. I would also like to take this into account in the area-based process, because there can of course be good reasons for taking this land for something else. Extensifying is really one of the parts mentioned in the letter. In that respect, I see this remark. He also made a comment about not stacking discounts and skimmings. I think we're going to have that discussion when we have the bill on how to deal with animal rights and that kind of thing here. Mr Harbers asked when the Chamber could clarify this. I have now submitted a request for an urgent opinion to the Council of State on this matter. It is, of course, up to the Council of State how quickly it can respond. We will try to clarify this at the end of the year, but I am just as dependent on a few processes around it. Then we can take the steps there again to clarify, because I see that there are quite a lot of questions about life and lack of clarity about that. Mr De Groot stressed the importance of nature objectives. That's what I agree with. That is, of course, also why we are doing all this here. In doing so, we must ensure that deterioration is prevented and that a favourable conservation status is achieved. This means, for nature policy, that nature management must also be in order in the nature reserve. You should not only have a nature reserve, but you should also be able to manage it properly. Nature reserves must be robust and recovery measures must be extended as soon as possible and intensified where necessary. Even if we look at this in its entirety with good environmental policy, water policy and land policy, this is all in line with what Mr De Groot himself said. In this way you can contribute quickly and in time to the ecological conditions, because that is what it is all about in the end. It is easier said than done, I say, because it is a rather comprehensive task. But it is what we stand for and what we work on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u426	This is the heart of the matter. Maybe the Minister will come back to this in another context, but we also had a discussion in this context about whether or not you are skimming enough to reduce the amount of nitrogen. The aim is very clear in the letter of 4 October. A certain system has now been chosen. But at what times does the Minister keep his finger on the tap to assess whether we are getting enough nitrogen from nature? And can the rate of skimming, for example, or can the system be adjusted?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u427	We should get started first; let me put it this way. In the letter of 4 October, we made the starting points very clear. Of course, we also keep seeing if it has the necessary effect. In the course of next year we will definitely look at that again. If we've already taken some measures, we're going to see if they're effective and if they're doing what we hope they're doing. Of course, there are times when you do that. Of course, the provinces also report periodically on the approach to nature recovery. There are, I think, all kinds of times when we will have that kind of discussion, but of course we keep up well with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u428	That is very good, because that also gives us the certainty that we can play with the way we skim and use our instruments to achieve the goal set in that letter of 4 October, namely that total nitrogen emissions are falling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u429	Mr De Groot also asked for the following. We're dealing with administrative relations. How can we guarantee that we will achieve certain goals with each other? At the same time, it seems a bit like we are entering into some sort of discussion about hierarchy. I don't want to, because provinces are really independent authority. The question was also what exactly does the Council of State's ruling look at? It doesn't just look at me. I am competent authority, IenW's colleague is also competent authority, but so are the provinces. The decision of the Council of State therefore concerns the competent authorities, that is to say all of us. That is why this is a joint task, because we are all in front of it. If you're gonna make performance agreements or something like that, you're gonna hit administrative relations again. I think that's a complicated one. I have just had a whole debate on what exactly is going on and whether or not we can agree with it. But of course this is also the discussion you are having with each other, especially wherever it takes place in those area-oriented processes. Of course, we all have an interest in ensuring that we have sufficient reduction in deposition, that we have sufficient natural recovery, and that we also see what activities can still take place there. I have already included other questions from Mr De Groot in the general section. Mr Kops asks if I can make it possible to eliminate Natura 2000 sites if the provinces ask for them. I have sat at the table with the provinces this afternoon and there is no province yet that has asked me to lift a Natura 2000 site. That's step one: I didn't get the question. But I also understand that I did not receive this question, because these Natura 2000 sites have in the past been designated as sites where certain habitats and species are to be protected. The European Court of Justice is very strict if you want to remove areas. This can only be done if the area has been wrongly designated, so a certain species to be protected in that area was not found to exist. Or it can be if, for example, there is a natural cause that eliminates a particular species. And economic reasons are not a cause for this. It really has to be about causes related to climate change, for example. If you can't meet that, you're gonna get whistled back by the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u430	The desire of a province to withdraw such a Natura 2000 status can of course come. But I also asked the Minister whether she was prepared to reduce the number of areas with such status. When we read the Nature Protection Act, the Minister points out such areas. But that law also states that the Minister may withdraw such a decision to designate. Also in the Habitats Directive there are opportunities to withdraw Natura 2000 status, for example compelling reasons of great public interest. Well, if farmers go bankrupt, if construction companies go bankrupt, if no more houses can be built, then these seem compelling reasons of great public interest to me. So again the question: is the Minister prepared to settle this, so reduce the number of areas with such status? Does she really want to work on that? Or is it secretly a matter of unwillingness?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u431	In the past, and I have also explained this in the debate on the budget for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality, a number of attempts have been made to remove Natura 2000 sites. After a lot of sessions, it was only possible in three cases. This was based on a scientific fact whether it was found that no contribution was made to the conservation of a species or habitat. In all other cases, this was not possible. So that has nothing to do with unwillingness, but with the fact that it is not allowed in this way. However, we remain, and I have said this in the budget debate, constantly talking, including with Brussels, about what to do with it when there are changes. But now we have the impression that we can even delete Natura 2000 sites, regardless of whether you want to do so. That is a political judgement. It can't just happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u432	A brief question: does the Minister not recognise that these European rules are actually bothering her, that they are simply a thorn in the eye, that the country is locked up because of these 160 Natura 2000 sites and that we really need to get rid of them, at least, of those European rules and Natura 2000 status? Does she agree with the PVV?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u433	I find it very valuable to protect nature. That is an important task for all of us. In the past, Natura 2000 sites have been designated for this purpose. I do feel obliged to implement the law and to honour the agreements that were ratified in this Chamber at the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u434	Once again with the Minister, it is worth protecting Natura 2000 sites. But I have once again pointed out a number of remarkable pieces in that whole list: a few dozen square meters, while alternatives are quite close. Surely it can make nature policy more robust if it just goes through it in a good way? That can also strengthen nature and agriculture, can't it? Does the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u435	I have just said that we always look at how such an area relates to the species and habitats that we must and also want to protect. I have just outlined that very intensive sections have taken place in the past which have actually led to little change. If we think that there is perhaps a reason for this in a particular area, then we are looking at it and we are also talking about it, including with Brussels. But I would like to reduce the expectations that it will lead to enormous changes, because that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u436	What matters to me is that "if it is, then we will look at it" has to be a little bit off. I would like to ask the Minister to look again at this in the context of the whole problem we are facing, both for the sake of nature, for the sake of nature management and for the sake of agriculture, and also to work towards making this Natura 2000 event more robust. 'Cause really, check that list. You come across the most amazing snippets that actually don't add anything. That is why I would ask the Minister to include this in the plan of action, to get on with it. I ask the Minister to look at this actively, critically and, where possible, offer alternatives, so that policies are strengthened on both sides.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u437	I see that there are several areas that are not very large and that are designated as Natura 2000 sites, but that has been done with an aim. I keep trying to point out that there are incredibly many restrictions to change that, because you really have to prove that a species is no longer there for ecological reasons and not because we have done so for certain economic reasons, plus that you have to prove that it was unfounded at the time to point that out there. Those actions have all gone through. That has already been looked at very closely. Mr Bishop is also talking about the exchange of areas. European case law has also shown that this cannot be done. In short, many actions have already been taken, particularly by my predecessors, and this has not led to many changes. So that is not something we should expect very much from now. I was still with Mr Kops, because this was another interruption that came through. Mr Kops has a roaring story about agriculture and what he thinks the future of agriculture is like. I recognize some of the things he mentions. I am also pleased that Mr Kops sees that the sustainability of agriculture is an important element in the whole discussion. That is precisely what we are doing about circular agriculture and in all kinds of plans that we have concluded with the sectors in order to be able to take steps in that direction. As far as I am concerned, there are also prospects for those who want to stay and who want to move forward with their business. Wherever possible, we really need to support that. Mrs Dik-Faber specifically asks: are all sectors going to contribute? Yeah, the letter's pretty clear on that. This is not just about agriculture; it is also about mobility and industry, and it is also about time, because the Remkes Committee will later issue a number of opinions. I have also just discussed the issue of consultation with the provinces. Mrs Dik-Faber also asked about the construction sector. That question will be answered by my colleague Knops. She's also asking for a timeline. I also intend to inform the Chamber periodically when all matters can be expected. I'll put that in writing soon. I will do so quickly, so that everyone can see clearly what we expect from all the products that we have yet to produce. Then the Chamber will also know what it can expect at any time and when the discussions will be held again. Mrs Ouwehand raised a number of questions in the interruptions, which she had also asked in her own contribution. She also specifically asks for an intergroup procedure to be set up against abroad. I do not think it is so much a collegial thing to do to other countries but simply to apply infractions because they are not doing certain things right. I believe that Mrs Ouwehand's movement is quite international. I would almost say to her: there are still parties there who can bring that action themselves if they believe that this is the case in their country. I don't think it's up to the cabinet to do that. She also asked a specific question about the latent space: when can money be given to take up that latent space? That is part of the discussion about how or not we deal with this latent space, also in relation to the process with the provinces that I have just outlined. In doing so, we must ensure that it is legally sustainable, too, that it is indeed not deprived of property rights. We consider this aspect to be important in the weighting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u438	I think Mrs Ouwehand would have asked more questions. Were you done with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u439	No. Mrs Ouwehand also asked: where is the money? Not only did she ask, but Mr Futselaar also said that there was no money. In the letter, the cabinet announced that we would come up with a budget reserve in which we would reserve money for the items needed. I understand Mr Futselaar's impatience that he now wants to know what amounts there are, but I suspect that this is something that does not just require one-off money this year. This could be long-term, and so there is a need for amounts of money. We need to shape that properly. We do that by looking at it later in the year. But we will not deny that it takes money. Mrs Ouwehand also raised the question of legal sustainability, but we have already had a whole discussion about this in the event of an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u440	We were told yesterday in the hearing that according to one of the experts the RIVM has determined for 2018 exactly how large that latent space is. It is quite important to know that, because if the latent space is much larger than the skimming plans that are now in place, it could be that nitrogen emissions are still rising, which is precisely not allowed in view of the Council of State's ruling. I've already asked the Minister to send those figures to the Chamber, but we haven't seen anything yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u441	Exactly we don't know. It has not been recorded everywhere which part of the licences has been used and which part has not been used, but there are estimates that this is between 20% and 30%. In recent years, however, it has always remained fairly stable around these percentages. I don't know exactly, because I don't have any company available at what time what latent space there is. It's not just about farming. There are also companies with a licence that have not been full of activities or do a little less there for a certain period of time of the year. It's impossible to check that out exactly. It's different every moment of the year. This is the assessment that we have heard is the best that has been made.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u442	Okay, thanks for that. I was wondering if it's true that the RIVM has a report on that. If that's the case, I'd like to go to the Chamber. I have one more question. Today there was the discussion of the IenW budget. There is also an issue about nitrogen or nature conservation with Schiphol, namely that Schiphol does not have the right nature permits. I understood from my colleague that the Minister of IenW said huppekee! Mr Delors, President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the President-in-Office of the Council I was wondering if the Minister of LNV is so happy with that and what answer she has.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u443	It is true that I have received a formal enforcement request concerning Schiphol, as I have received more enforcement requests at the moment, I can tell you. We will respond to this in a proper manner in accordance with the time available to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u444	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u445	In view of the enormous unrest among farmers, which I understand, I would like to repeat the invitation I made in my first term and earlier, to make a statement about it. Schiphol's gonna have to shrink and we're not gonna open Lelystad. I think it is fair that farmers who are already faced with measures should be given more clarity about the direction the cabinet is pursuing than simply 'there will be plans that will affect other sectors'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u446	I have said that all sectors are included in this process. The letter also states that we are waiting for the report of the Remkes Committee on aviation to come later. All sectors should contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u447	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u448	I was with Mrs. Dik-Faber. No, I've already had it. I think I've had Mrs. Ouwehand now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u449	Mr Van Otterloo.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u450	Yes, Mr Van Otterloo's questions. Thanks to Mr Van Otterloo's speech, I found that he really started thinking about possible solutions or things to come up with. I think that is also important in this matter. This is large, comprehensive and not a quick fix, as Mr Van Otterloo himself says. I totally agree with him. It turns out that we do, because we really need to take it one step at a time. At the same time, Mr Van Otterloo puts down a number of things that you could take with you. He spoke of a levy on nitrogen emissions. I think that at the same time it is going to have a huge impact on a number of sectors, so it is very far-reaching simply to introduce them. I agree with Mr Van Otterloo that policy must be effective. That is precisely why we are looking at what action is being taken in which area. We also really need to look at the steps that can be taken in this regard. Mr Van Otterloo spoke specifically about a case on which I have answered parliamentary questions. There were rights in that. That was just in the PAS period. That's the way it could have been at the time. Now we're in a different situation. That is why we are holding this debate. In any case, I would like to thank Mr Van Otterloo for the suggestions he has put forward. We will seriously consider any suggestions that have a chance to contribute to the solution. Then I come to Mr Futselaar. The point of the money I answered. He was very firm when he said that the provinces can solve the misery. I can see that the provinces are doing a lot of work, but I can't escape the impression that I have done something in this file lately. It is really not the case that we leave it with the provinces. We'll do it area-oriented, but we'll be at the bar together. That really is the starting point for everything we do. We need to get into this with each other. Mr Futselaar keeps saying: there must be speed, there must be more. I understand his unrest, but at the same time we should not pretend that, for example, we could have repaired a company by the end of the year. Those are lengthy processes, where people are really emotionally involved and where you need to be able to make good considerations. Those are things you didn't just settle in a few months. We need that realism, too. And that is the dilemma of this issue. You don't have much time, but at the same time you have to do a number of things carefully. If Mr Futselaar sees where it can be done faster, I am happy to hear it. If he says the cabinet doesn't do anything and that it all has to be done faster, I dispute that. This is what we're really doing right now, in those areas. That's where we'll see what's possible and necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u451	Were there any more questions from Mr Futselaar?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u452	He also asked: do you know where the peak loads are and the temporary thresholds? I have indicated precisely that, if we want a threshold, it must be legally feasible and we must also put compensatory measures in place. This is before the Council of State. I want to take a good look at that, because I also have to ensure that it can be maintained. Mr Futselaar also asked about the ADC. He says the nitrogen deposition increases with an ADC test. We have a C in the ADC and it stands for "compensation." Nitrogen deposition, caused by an activity, is thus compensated. The nitrogen deposition thus does not rise, quite the contrary. You'll never pass the ADC test if that's not in order. That is why I do not see the usefulness and necessity of sending all these tests to the Chamber. He may assume that the ADC is correct, otherwise it simply will not be approved and will be off the table very soon. Mr President, these were Mr Futselaar's questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u453	Let's talk about the temporary threshold. The Minister says it's with the Council of State. I specifically asked about the possibilities of doing such a sectoral thing. So we say: we take a certain group, such as vital infrastructure, so say the dikes, and we're going to see if there's any possibility of taking a temporary measure so that some problems can be solved a little earlier. It is not a huge group, so there will be no heavy nitrogen deposition.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u454	For some of these things you can also use an ecological touch. You have multiple options. You can flip internally, you can flip externally for certain things. You can perform the ADC test or the ecological test. The threshold will focus in particular on the smaller depositions, which thus remain below the threshold. That's very different from one project to another. I don't know exactly how much deposition is released on such a specific project. This type of smaller deposition can benefit from this. That's what we're looking at in the first place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u455	I understand that a general threshold will be very difficult. We've all heard that. I think several people are hoping for it. We're gonna have to bring down the nitrogen and protect nature reserves. Still, it's gonna be really hard. From different sectors, such as housing, construction, etc., it is also asked whether we can temporarily allow a specific deposition value for a particular sector in order to ensure that small steps are taken within them, which are now fixed. If the Minister says that this is absolutely impossible, then I will sit down, because then I believe it. But if there are any options, I'd like to know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u456	I do not know if it is possible, because the whole idea of the threshold is now before the Council of State for Information. If you know whether you can or can't, you can make the choices you're aiming at. To be clear, in the case of housing, there are really some projects that can be detached in this way, so I think that sector can benefit from it as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u457	I just wanted to talk about whether it's fast enough or not. The Minister is right to say that repairing a company, however you do it, will take a while. That wasn't done overnight. That's true, but the later you start it, the later it ends. There's a list of things you need to do before you can get started. You have to have a budget. It is not for nothing that different parties ask where the money is. Besides, you need a list of potential candidates. I think there should be. We've had AERIUS. We know where large nitrogen emissions are around areas. If it's okay, we also know what the recovery assignment is in those areas. I do not understand why we should wait until after an area-oriented process, which is not quite clear when it is over, and then say where we are going to buy something. Then we'll be at least three-quarters of a year to one year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u458	To avoid a misunderstanding: AERIUS does not show where the biggest peak loaders are. Only when you apply for a permit for an activity can AERIUS calculate the nitrogen deposition. It is therefore not the case that we already have a complete list of certain companies which cause a relatively high level of nitrogen deposition. It is true that in some provinces it is easier to understand. I don't know exactly where all these companies are. Provinces often have more insight into this, also because they issue the permits. That's why I have to go into this area-oriented process, because that's where they know exactly what's going on. That's where those things are being mapped out. Again, in one province they will have the list complete a bit faster than in another province, but precisely with that we are working and also with how you relate that to nature restoration that is needed. That's right, that's pretty clear in most areas. You have to bring these things together, and that's what happens in that process.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u459	That's a final question for me. A little bit more up and running than you're used to. The Minister's nitrogen letter contains a number of principles. You can agree with that or not, for example when it comes to voluntary farming. Then a process is proposed for area processes and so on. In the meantime, a lot of them will stay stuck. My question to the Minister is how long the country can stay, before the cabinet says that we may have to reconsider the starting points in the letter. I understand it's gonna take a while, but is that three months, six months, nine months, twelve months, one and a half years? When is the time when the cabinet says that we should look each other in the eye and say that we are going to take more drastic measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u460	Mr Futselaar assumes that we are not going to take any action. I dispute that. We're gonna do that, and in order to do that, you're gonna have to map out a number of things. I do not quite understand Mr Futselaar's reasoning about 'one or the other'. We're working on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u461	Let me make it more concrete. Suppose we find out in a year's time that volunteering doesn't help enough to bring the nitrogen deposition down so much that there can be a large-scale licensing. So that doesn't work, and we're going to look at each other and say, "We have to do something a little more drastic, even if it costs us the presence of Mr Geurts." Is there a time when the cabinet says if it doesn't work, we're going to revisit it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u462	We're gonna keep looking at what we're doing and see if it's working. This applies not only to these measures, but also to all other source measures, including nature restoration, for the whole package together. Of course we want to see if it leads to a reduction in nitrogen deposition. So we'll stay on top of that ourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u463	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u464	Mr Moorlag's questions. He specifically asks how I can spare businesses that want to work according to circular agriculture. An important starting point in this discussion is that farmers who want to continue to farm can continue to farm. Sometimes we have to help to do that in a way that reduces the deposition, for example. In order to meet the farmers, we have also released investment funds. But if you have a circular farm, you usually also have a lower deposition. Those companies are already further in reducing the nitrogen deposition. That also helps for the overall picture of it. In the letter I also specifically indicated that the promotion of circular agriculture remains an important part of the policy. We're gonna keep doing that. If there are companies working according to circular farming principles, which I want to encourage on one side, it would be very strange for me to say on the other hand that we do not want it anymore. That doesn't exactly match. But that, too, is something we can understand when we have that sharp in those areas. Mr Moorlag also asked how we are going to prevent the deep pockets from buying the farmers. That is exactly why I made the agreement with the provinces to take a closer look at the rules that we lay down about external auctioning for livestock farming, including in the bill that I am working on, and also to look into what is needed in those areas. In this way we try to prevent this as much as possible. For I agree with Mr Moorlag that there may be other important issues that need to be given priority. Those choices must therefore be made. I think I have already answered Mr Moorlag's other question more generally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u465	You have had all the questions put by Mr Moorlag?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u466	That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u467	The most fundamental question was: how will the Minister restore confidence in society? I'm following the course of this debate, and I'm trying to imagine all those construction companies that are worried about their order book and already rejecting people, and all those people who have construction projects. I got another e-mail saying I can't get my building permit. This is an old house that has to be sold, an inheritance that has to be settled and inheritance tax that has to be paid. I am thinking of all those farmers who want clarity and who are following this debate. There's so little concrete going on. Where and how much is being cleaned up in agriculture now? That is a very pressing question that also comes from the agricultural sector. The Minister said...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u468	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u469	The Minister said it's not 50%, but what is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u470	I have formulated principles that are used in all these processes. Mr Moorlag is now asking whether 50% of companies are going to leave, but that is not how we are going to have this discussion. We need to see what it takes to restore nature and what that means for the nitrogen deposition in a given area.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u471	It's very noisy in the hall. Mr. Geurts! Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u472	I just need to get my way back. This can therefore vary on a case-by-case basis. I get the feeling: what exactly are we going to do about agriculture? What percentages? How many animals? All those questions are ahead of us. And that is precisely what I think is a reduction in the complexity of this issue, which does not solve it either. We really need to look at what a measure has to do in a given area. That's where you have to make the choices. That is what we are going to do, and that is what the Chamber is always informed about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u473	That may be so, but those are the questions that live in society, the questions people are worried about, the questions that have caused a great deal of unrest. Then the answer can't be that we're all going into territorial processes and that it's all being designed there? We also know that there are rich and less wealthy provinces, but we do not know how much money will be made available. We don't know what pace we're aiming at. We don't know what the targets are. These are very legitimate questions for people's representatives and from society.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u474	Sure. Then I shall repeat the principles, for example with regard to farmers. We have said that on the basis of voluntary, warm-cleaning, warm-movement, nature restoration, those who want to remain farmers, we can also open up investment options to make certain adjustments, for example to stables, if necessary. I can get the whole letter up again...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u475	No, I wouldn't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u476	I believe that we have set out all the basic principles.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u477	I think society is waiting for a plan. Those are the signals the construction sector is sending out. Those are the signals from people who are worried about whether enough housing is being built. These are the signals from the agricultural sector, which requires clarity. There is not enough plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u478	Authorisation is possible in a number of cases. We've also arranged cases to do that. A number of steps have yet to be taken, for example around the external netting. I'll inform the Chamber at what point that's going to happen. This is how we take steps step by step. I understand the impatience, again, but we can't do it faster than this way, because you really have to look at the effect a measure has on a particular area.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u479	I'll see if all the questions have been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u480	All I have left is Mr Bishop's questions, and then I'm done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u481	Maybe before you move on. Mr De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u482	A point of order. A few minutes ago, a group member of mine would have a birthday tomorrow, but today it is today: 18 October. Sama Belhaj just had a birthday.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u483	Congratulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u484	Then I'll see if the Minister has an answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u485	Congratulations. I imagine there's better places to celebrate your birthday than this Chamber, so we're gonna try to finish this quick so she can have a quick drink.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u486	Well, it's very nice here, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u487	That is true, that is true, Mr President, but there may be places where it is even more pleasant, although I cannot imagine it very well, you are right. Mr Bishop asked if there would be strict conditions for internal salading. Internal saling is exactly the space you have within a company. I think it's about strict conditions for external netting, with another company. I just told you how we deal with that. I've already talked about nature. He also strongly asks not to allow the removal of latent space and the removal of 30%. 30% reduction in external netting doesn't mean we're going to take 30% off a company. I hear that ambiguity a lot. When you sell your company, when you sell your nitrogen space or ammonia space, the receiving party gets 30% less of that space than you could use yourself. So it's not like we're going to remove certain parts of a company or anything like that right now, I really want to stress that. But we need to have a reduction in the nitrogen deposition, and we do that by taking 30% off the ammonia chamber or the environmental space that the receiver gets. This is necessary in order to ensure that we meet the legal requirement to allow authorisation on the other hand. Mr. Chairman. I think I've answered about all the questions. There are a few remaining questions, but I left them to my colleagues.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u488	That's good. Mr. Harbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u489	I have just heard the Minister say about the development area and the latent space: that is actually all going to happen, and we have to look at that, including the case that has been mentioned by several groups. I missed one answer. I've heard shreds of it. The minister said in the beginning that the Chamber is still receiving a lot of letters. Can that just be put together in one schedule for the next, grab him, six months? That's what I'm looking for. Can the Court be reported periodically on that basis? I am not even saying that in front of the Chamber, but because it is behind a society that is now also looking into so many questions, while some are not going to be discussed until a month or later. Then you also know when you can get clarity on what part.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u490	Yes. I have a whole note here with all the decision-making moments, letters and things that are going to come. I think it would be more useful for us to send this to your Chamber in writing for the debate. Then you can see for yourself what to expect when. But we will continue to inform the Chamber of all the things that are going to happen. When we get back on track, we'll inform the Chamber, so that the Chamber itself can follow the progress on the various parts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u491	And not just the room. Last Tuesday, a motion by Mr Dik was adopted on an information point. At that information point, too, we must always be clear about what we do not know yet and what the time is when we think we know these things. I think there's a great need for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u492	Yes. That information point has been opened. There is information on it and it is available by telephone, but we will also make sure that people there can see what we are expecting in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u493	Maybe next to this. Last Tuesday, a motion was adopted calling for an integrated approach to this whole process. The Minister left the verdict on this matter to the Chamber. I can imagine that what the Minister has in front of him now is a beautiful building block for such an integrated approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u494	There are good elements in that; let me put it this way. The motion also contained other questions, other elements, such as the involvement of sectors. That's what we're gonna do. This is not just for me, but also for those colleagues who deal with all sectors, precisely to ensure that we keep looking at what the options are and what we are thinking about and to ensure that we communicate well on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u495	How long will it take us to get the first version? I realize that this will be a rolling track that will always be adapted and renewed. New steps will be taken. When's the first time we get this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u496	First of all, I would like to send a letter stating what the Chamber and society will soon be expecting from all the steps we are going to take. After that, you will always receive additions about the steps that have been taken and what it results in. It happens all the time. It is difficult to say "within so many weeks" or whatever, but we will send a first version to this Chamber by the end of the year anyway.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u497	Okay. Thank you. I'm looking at the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u498	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This is quite clear, because I have only got one direct question that has been asked to me. So it doesn't have to take too long. That question was from Mr De Groot's hand. He noted from the cabinet's letter that, of course, the Ministry of IenW also took responsibility and that all the modalities involved looked at how to contribute to the reduction of nitrogen deposition. The example he mentioned had to do with the speed reductions. In line with the opinion of the Remkes Committee, we are going to look at this in the area-oriented processes: where can this contribute to the Natura 2000 sites or their close proximity? The specific question he had about this was: how are we going to ensure that the speed reductions that are then taking place on the national roads are well aligned so that there is not a confusing picture of constantly changing speeds? Well, we will, of course, take a very good look at that, because road safety is at the top of our agenda. So we're gonna take a good look at the coherence. This must not, of course, produce a constantly changing picture. In addition, I can of course assure you that the speeds will also be clearly marked with the prescribed traffic signs. I see Mrs De Pater sitting in the room. Today, during the debate on the budget, she specifically called for this to be taken into account. She said that this should be made as clear as possible, supported by the extra indication on hectometer poles and so on. We will ensure that wherever it comes into force, it creates a safe traffic situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u499	Thank you. Mr. Klaver, last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u500	I have a question about the speeds on the highways. Can the Minister indicate the effect of the reduction in speed on different routes? Has that been mapped yet? If that hasn't happened yet, why hasn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u501	Of course, we've looked into that. You can see in the report of the Remkes Committee that the different modalities make different contributions to the nitrogen deposition. We cannot, of course, yet know exactly what speed reductions that should lead to in which areas. That process needs to get going. Those speed reductions are also addressed in the area. Nitrogen has the quality of the highways that it hits pretty close to the roads. It hits the most in the first 500 meters, and then a little bit in the next 500 meters. After a kilometer, it's actually negligible. We need to map that very carefully. Only then can you see it exactly. But if you would do it all over the Netherlands, you'll come up with a reduction of about 0.15%, so you shouldn't count on it richly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u502	This point has been raised quite extensively in the budget debate today. I'm going to the Secretary of State for Home Affairs and Kingdom Relations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u503	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to Members for the questions they have put. I will answer the questions on housing. It is clear that the problem of nitrogen has a major impact on housing, its potential. This must be countered by the government's ambition to promote more housing. A number of Members explicitly asked for this. That also means that we have a considerable task here. As the Minister of LNV has just indicated, a methodology has been agreed in which it is possible to make housing possible on the basis of internal netting. At the same time, we are also told that this does not offer solace for all locations. This also means that a number of sites, depending on where they are located, are to a greater or lesser extent hampered by the problem of nitrogen. We are, of course, trying to compensate for that as much as possible. This means focusing on new and sustainable housing but also on continuing to grant permits where possible. The question is, of course, how the information currently available to the Council of State will ultimately lead to, for example, a threshold, on which a number of organisations under the leadership of Building Netherlands today have offered a petition, in the short term, whether temporarily or not, being a possibility. The Minister of LNV has just indicated what a threshold value implies. This implies that a small part of the total volume is then exhausted. This may provide a solution for certain projects, but at the same time, in many cases, it also has an impact on other projects. So it's a matter of weighing up what you can do. I am referring to the weighing of interests in the field of infrastructure, housing and agriculture. However, it is clear that this needs to be clarified quickly. Fortunately, in practice, I also see that there are municipalities that are making maximum efforts to keep this authorisation going. I mention, for example, the municipality of Eindhoven, which recently managed to create 100 homes by removing a parking garage. So I'd almost like to say: especially look very creatively at what is possible at the moment. At the same time, of course, we are dealing with the situation in which we are now in which a path has been agreed. I would repeat myself if I were to quote or paraphrase the Minister of LNV on this point. Members Harbers, Dik-Faber, Futselaar and others have asked the specific question whether the cabinet can respond to the emergency cry from construction. How much longer is the threshold going to wait? Is that a possibility? I have just indicated that the ruling of the Council of State is not misunderstood. It has absolutely consequences. At the same time, there are also possibilities, also on the basis of the letter of 4 October, in which authorisation can be granted. This also means that we will continue to discuss with parties in the sector in the near future to see what is possible. We will also examine with the co-governments what is possible and which internal netting test or ADC test can take place, including an ecological justification to keep as much as possible going. We cannot completely remove the uncertainty, but let one thing be clear: the ambitions of this cabinet with regard to housing and investing in it, including with the expert teams that we have available from the Ministry, are fully standing. This also means that we are absolutely interested and see how we can solve this big problem, which actually affects everyone, as practically as possible. Mr Geurts asked whether it would be possible to use a generic ADC test to launch plans in the residential deals. "Generic" is always complicated in concrete projects. For individual projects, it will be difficult to argue alternatives and a compelling interest. Together with the residential areas, we therefore map out the bottlenecks and where an ADC test is the last option to allow housing projects to continue in these regions. We are currently exploring by region. I can tell you that at the moment one of the living areas is The Hague. That region happens to be in a somewhat complicated position. I have gained some experience with the Binnenhof on this point. There the possibility of an ADC test is currently being explored. Preliminary investigation is under way. This affects not only the projects here in The Hague itself, but also, for example, a large housing project in Valkenburg, where the Rijksvaastgoedbedrijf is working together with the municipality and the province and where 5,000 houses should be realized. Mr De Groot asked whether the Minister would amend the Building Decision in such a way that new homes would become natural, circular and energy neutral. I have good news for Mr De Groot. The Building Decision has already been adapted and all new homes have to be built energy neutrally from 1 July 2020, according to BENG requirements. I know that the President does not like abbreviations, certainly not at this time, so BENG stands for almost energy-neutral building. As of 1 July 2018, new buildings had to be natural gas-free, and as far as circular construction is concerned: on 8 October, I announced three changes for the environmental performance of buildings in the Construction Decision. Mr Moorlag wondered whether the 1 billion, out of 2 billion, from the housing impulse was fully used for nitrogen. That is the part that was also intended for regional development. This housing impulse is primarily intended to achieve more affordable housing and not to reduce nitrogen emissions or deposition. Of course, in specific cases, it can always be the case that precisely that nitrogen is the last point where compensation should still be made and what resources should be used for, for example, you could finance an uneconomic summit in order to get the business case going. We don't exclude it, but it's not primarily intended for that purpose. If this leads to housing or the detachment of projects, it can be viewed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u504	Last question, Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u505	I understand that it will happen very exceptionally, and that the housing corporations do not have to fear that an important part of the resources they have been made happy with are at least a little happy, because they would have been much happier, and I also think that there is not enough done to get rid of them and in fact the same money is being used twice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u506	The fact that the same money is used several times was the portee of your comment. But no, that's not the case. At the same time, there must be an explicit weighting every time, because if it has such a positive effect that it allows you to detach a very large project, then that is a weighting that needs to be explained. But that's not what it's meant for. Mr President, I believe that these are the questions that have been put to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u507	Thank you. This brings us to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Klaver on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u508	Mr President, thank you. I didn't get the answers I wanted. The Minister has promised that she will put it on paper and I would still like to receive this timeline in the week after the recess. I still have big questions about exactly what happened. I think that the Minister does not want to answer this question tonight is significant. Mr. Chairman. I'm positive about tonight, too. Last week it was that the Minister's letter would be leading and that is why the provinces should follow. But tonight I see a completely different attitude: we are going to do this together with the provinces; we are going to go into consultation. I'd say the provinces are on the move. I can tell that there is indeed support for this approach in the cabinet. I would like confirmation that the cabinet also supports the provinces and the choices they make. If they say that more steps must be taken than the coalition and the cabinet, then there is room for that too. Mr. Chairman. What is actually happening and the way we now have to work on tackling the nitrogen problem, the nitrogen bypass that has arisen, just reminds me of a big project. We are undertaking an activity that has a major impact on society and on the state service. New technologies, financing structures and an organisationally complex control and implementation process are involved. That's why I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in the Netherlands an administrative chaos has arisen around nitrogen;]] [[Whereas it is desirable for the Court to be closely involved in the resolution of the nitrogen bypass;]] [[refers to the approach which should lead to a solution of the nitrogen bypass and to the initiation of the projects which are therefore still to be regarded as a major project within the meaning of the Large Projects Scheme,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Klaver, Mr Bishop, Mr Ouwehand, Mr Futselaar, Mr Moorlag, Mr Van Otterloo, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen and Mr Baudet.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32670-173]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u509	Mr. Chairman. To all colleagues who think that the Minister has just indicated that he will inform the Chamber, I say: that is correct. That is what ministers must do, but by making it a major project, the rules that the ministry must comply with and the way in which they should be reported to the Chamber are much stricter. I think that's in the best interest of all of us. I know how different we look at the way in which the problems that lie are to be solved, but as parliamentarians we all have an interest in ensuring that the maximum level of information is available to the Chamber. So I'm hoping for support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u510	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Harbers on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u511	Thank you, Mr President. I thank the three rulers for their reply. I've heard a few principles that I think we should hold on to. I have heard the Minister say that all farmers who want to farm must be able to continue to farm. It also talks about development space and voluntaryness as a starting point and about the corresponding investments. It is precisely because this also needs to be discussed with the provinces that I propose a motion to strengthen that signal. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Cabinet wishes to make investments for low-emission stables, that a warm reorganisation scheme is available for farmers who wish to quit, and that the Cabinet also establishes a budget reserve in the Autumn Note for the financing of possible additional measures;]] [[Whereas it is very important that farmers have a real choice between all the schemes in question;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure with the provinces that farmers have an understanding of all the available and future financial arrangements for the agricultural sector, both for investment, relocation and warm rehabilitation, so that they can make a proper assessment of their use in good time,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Harbers and Mr Geurts. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32670-174]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u512	Finally, I would like to put one question to the House, because it was rather quick to reply to the two motions tabled on Tuesday, inter alia, on the measurement network. The minister says we're gonna expand that measuring grid. I am particularly concerned about an addition to that measuring network, namely more measurements of depositions on the ground. That is one of the things that was discussed yesterday by several experts. The RIVM also says: our measuring network can be improved there. Then we can look at it, which was sometimes another point that the different calculation models that are international, which are often placed side by side to see who actually does what with the results of those measurements. I hope that is really the job the Minister is doing. We would very much like to remain closely involved. I would therefore ask the Minister to explain again in a letter in the near future exactly how she intends to deal with the drafting of both motions, so that we know what we can expect at what point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u513	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Geurts on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u514	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank both ministers and the Secretary of State for their answers. When I got the debate working on me a little bit, I thought: we talk a lot about agriculture here, we talk about construction here, about the entrepreneurs in that world, but where is the talking with them? That is the question I would also like to ask the Minister for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality. How is the Minister going in consultation with all those people we have talked about here tonight, so that they are also involved in the follow-up process? I believe that this is essential for the support and implementation. Having said that, I come to the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government, together with the provinces, to ensure that a uniform policy is put in place in terms of time-frame investment in emission reduction,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Geurts and Mr Harbers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32670-175]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u515	Mr. Chairman. I wish us all and you in particular a good recess.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u516	Thank you, Mr. Geurts. Then I will go to Mr De Groot on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u517	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the directors for answering the questions. No motion. Tonight was a lot about clarity. That is what we need, not only in the Chamber, but also in the farmers' minds about what this circular farming is, and not least what it really takes to get that nature back into good shape. The Minister has indicated that she is aware of the fact that it is a huge task. I hope that the Minister, even behind the scenes, will think for himself, in parallel with Remkes, about what it means to go to a good state of nature in the Netherlands. I wish her a great deal of strength and we will follow that critically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u518	Thank you, Mr. De Groot. Then I will go to Mr Kops on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u519	Mr. Chairman. After such a debate, one wonders what the conclusion is. What has such a debate produced in concrete terms? Has anything changed? Did anything new come out? Has anyone gotten any better? Unfortunately, the answer to these questions is "no, not at all." The farmers are screwed, the builders are screwed and the conclusion after this debate is: no farmer has gotten better and no builder has got better. That's really sad, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to substantially relax the nitrogen rules;]] [[calls on the Government to reduce the number of sites with Natura 2000 status and also to align the withdrawal of Natura 2000 status of sites if provinces so wish,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32670-176]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u520	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u521	Thank you, Mr. Kops. Then I will go to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u522	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the directors for answering all the questions that have been asked. It has become clear to me this evening that we are dealing with a very complex issue and that simple solutions are certainly not available. I think it is important to work step by step now to find a solution to resume the authorisation process, which continues to reduce total nitrogen emissions and deposition. I wish the members of this cabinet, the directors, a great deal of wisdom in the difficult process ahead of us. That was my contribution in the second term. I don't have any motions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u523	You don't have to, Mrs. Fat-Faber. Thank you. Then I'll go to Mrs. Ouwenhand on behalf of the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u524	Mr. Chairman. The fact that the Ministry responsible for nature conservation policy is still not able to present good legal analyses is very serious. I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas nature conservation specialists have warned the Chamber that the principles used by the Cabinet in tackling the nitrogen crisis, such as voluntaryity, technical solutions and a purely territorial approach, offer far too little security and are legally unsustainable;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with a legally sustainable plan in the short term,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32670-177]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u525	I would point out to the Minister that the environmental organisations which have so far won all the legal proceedings have offered their help. So I'd say switch them on. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[given the nitrogen crisis;]] [[Explains that Lelystad Airport may not be opened,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[given the nitrogen crisis;]] [[declares that the Formula 1 in Zandvoort cannot continue,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to call on the European Commission to examine whether Germany, Belgium, France and Denmark are fully implementing the Habitats Directive and, if not, to open infringement proceedings against these countries,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32670-178]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32670-179]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32670-180]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u526	I really thought it was a little crazy that the Minister said that she did not think it was collegial to start infringement proceedings against Germany, for example, but I think it is only reasonable that if we follow those European rules properly here, other Member States will do the same. It also helps enormously with the deposition we get from abroad. So I really do not understand why the Minister is opposed to this, but I can tell her that our European group has already made this appeal to the European Commission. I hope that the cabinet is still prepared to do so. Finally. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the background level of nitrogen emissions should be drastically reduced before nature permits for, for example, construction projects can take place again;]] [[Whereas nitrogen oxides emitted by road traffic, among other things, are highly airborne and therefore local speed reductions will have little effect;]] [[calls on the Government to reduce the maximum speed on all Dutch motorways to a maximum of 100 km/h,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32670-181]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u527	Thank you, Mr President. The last motion had the motto "Hel Holland 100."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u528	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. Then I go to Mr Van Otterloo on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u529	Mr. Chairman. I thank the rulers for the answers they have given. I am also very looking forward to the way in which our suggestions are being processed and the result. I have two motions I would like to put to the Chamber. The first is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Council of State's decision should reduce nitrogen emissions;]] [[Whereas efforts should be made to restore nature and reduce emissions;]] [[Whereas a balanced package of effective measures should be taken;]] [[calls on the Government to review all measures proposed or to be taken in the front against the evaluation framework of the Council of State,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Van Otterloo. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32670-182]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u530	The second motion concerns the international aspect, which I have already mentioned. The Netherlands should, I think, put on the penance rug, but that does not mean that we should not consult with foreign countries. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas nitrogen emissions do not comply with national limits;]] [[whereas only an international approach will have a real impact on reducing nitrogen emissions;]] [[calls on the government at European level to promote an EU-wide approach to the problem of nitrogen,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Van Otterloo. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32670-183]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u531	I would like to point out that this goes beyond the Habitats Directive alone. It's about the total production of nitrogen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u532	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Futselaar on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u533	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It was a rather unsatisfactory debate. When I started here, I didn't understand exactly why so little had been done since the ruling in May, and I still don't understand that. When I started here, I felt that too little is being done now to make speed, and that's what I still think. My fear is a bit that in one year or two years' time people will look back and say: "But there was a very clear report from the Remkes Committee saying that it was very bad and that we had to take very tough measures very quickly? And then what happened?" I am afraid that we will have to say: Yes, we have entered into some very tight area processes. Good. I don't just want to look back, I want to try to find a solution. Hence the next two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the nitrogen crisis limits a large number of construction projects and economic activities;]] [[considers that national security should be primacy over all other considerations;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to provide a temporary threshold for nitrogen deposition specifically for maintaining the vital infrastructure,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, in addition to the nitrogen crisis, the Netherlands has a housing crisis;]] [[considers that every possible way of re-launching housing should be sought;]] [[calls on the cabinet to come up with a temporary threshold for nitrogen deposition specific to housing,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32670-184]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32670-185]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u534	I would like to say that I am well aware that it is easier to write these motions than to carry them out. In order to achieve this, the nitrogen deposition needs to be substantially reduced and nature needs to be restored. But I think there might be opportunities here. And if there are, I think this should be the two priorities. That is why I am now tabling these two motions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u535	Thank you, Mr. Fuzzler. I now give the floor to Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u536	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, thanks to the directors for answering the questions. The result is not quite what I had hoped for, but at least the questions have been adequately answered, and that is a great deal of good. Mr. Chairman. What strikes me in this whole discussion is that there is a very strong legalized stamp on it, while, of course, there are a lot of other interests involved. I would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food Safety...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u537	Nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u538	Nature. Excuse me. I would like to ask her to take this comprehensive approach into account as well, in particular, those other dimensions which also relate to this whole issue. Three motions, Mr. Chairman. I'll read them to you soon. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet is primarily committed to buying up farms;]] [[Whereas the agricultural sector sees opportunities for emission reduction through increased grazing, aeration and dilution of manure, less fertiliser use and less nitrogen in feed;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with the sector, to invest more in reducing emissions by means of technical and management measures, and to use rapid recognition, financial support and linking to the external netting instrument,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32670-186]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u539	Next move. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that hundreds of construction and other projects are in difficulty, while the calculated deposition contribution is minimal;]] [[Whereas calculated deposition contributions of 0,05 mol per hectare, i.e. 0.01% of the lowest critical deposition value, disappear against the background deposition and do not cause significant negative effects, including taking into account project accumulation;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with provinces, to ensure that a threshold of 0,05 mol per hectare per area is set in the very short term and that it is increased if more justification is available,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32670-187]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u540	Last one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Netherlands has chosen to strictly protect all Natura 2000 habitat types present in the site, including a relatively small area for that habitat type;]] [[considers that the problem of nitrogen requires the setting of priorities in Natura 2000 policy and that the European Commission also gives room for this;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with provinces, to ensure that better priority is given to Natura 2000 policy in the short term, so that the above-mentioned snippets of a particular habitat type can benefit from a less stringent protection regime,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32670-188]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u541	Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u542	Thank you, Mr. Bishop. Then I will go to Mr Moorlag on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u543	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks for the answer. I had hoped that tonight in society there would be a sense of what I would say to his flat Groningen "it's a big shooting barrel, moar who have confidence that there will be gold foe us wort zörgd." Or, "it's a big mess, but we're confident that we'll be well taken care of." I wonder whether this feeling has arisen after this debate, because it has not yet been clarified. No clarity for the builders. People are waiting for their permits. No clarity for the farmers. Yeah, they're getting cleaned up, but how much? It's already 50%. No clarity for the people looking for a place to live. I understand very well that all kinds of questions cannot yet be answered, but I do wonder why the debate should be conducted as in the case of gas extraction. At that time there was also a minister who was Minister Kamp.... who made a very monotonous and almost technocratic speech that is completely correct in the system reality, but which simply does not work in people's experience. Mr. Chairman. There has been an incredible amount of confusion today. The scope of the reorganisation is unclear. We need money, but we don't know how much. There is a need to work on permits, but at what rate is it going to happen if licences are to get back on track? Is the housing business getting back on track? Is there even a plan? No. I really miss that. If the result is that there will be twelve area-oriented processes, then I think that is not enough to restore confidence in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u544	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mr Baudet on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u545	Madam President. I have a number of motions with concrete alternatives that can directly improve the situation in the Netherlands. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Cabinet considers that our nitrogen depositions cause problems and that measures should therefore be taken to reduce our nitrogen emissions in the eyes of the Cabinet;]] [[whereas these measures are currently mainly affecting farmers, the construction sector and the transport sector, but the Minister has indicated that other sectors, such as the aviation sector, may also need to be reduced;]] [[Whereas the increase in the population is a significant factor in the total nitrogen emissions of our country, and therefore the continuing immigration, which is the cause of the increase in our population, has a direct effect on our national nitrogen emissions and is therefore indirectly responsible for the measures now being taken against farmers, the construction sector and the transport sector;]] [[calls on the government to include the possibility of reducing immigration in the formulation of measures to reduce nitrogen emissions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32670-189]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u546	I've got four more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u547	You have one minute. So you really have to decide which motion you think is most important to submit, otherwise you will go over your speaking time. That is not entirely fair to others either. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to cut you off halfway, and that's not nice either. So you can choose now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u548	Let's see how far we can get. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that scientists and legal experts agree that the research models used to calculate the nitrogen deposition are not sufficiently precise to base policies;]] [[noting that the German test method takes into account the uncertainty margins inherent in the models, which significantly increase limit values in Germany;]] [[Whereas it has never been considered by a court of the Netherlands or by the Court of Justice of the European Union that the German method of review would be legally unsustainable;]] [[having noted that, in response to a motion previously tabled, the Government undertook to ask the Council of State for information on "the introduction of a threshold" in general;]] [[calls on the Government not to limit the information request to the use of thresholds as such, but to explicitly request an opinion on the legal sustainability of the specific German assessment method, which takes into account uncertainty margins,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32670-190]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u549	I note that I am therefore no longer given time to submit the other motion, because I see that the counter is at zero. I very much regret that. I also think you're being unreasonablely strict with me. I do not think that this is in line with the seriousness of this issue and, secondly, with the way in which it is debated all evening. I can't do much more, but it's also a little harsh that one of those interruptions that's coming right now should be allowed. There is time for that, but there is no time for our proposals to be put to the vote. I really don't think that can be explained to the people in the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u550	In the second period, you will have a third of your speaking time. That means that you have two minutes for a six-minute speaking time. Everyone does. Of course, I'm not going to be annoying if it's going to take a few seconds over those two minutes, but you can't file four or six motions with a giant text. That's just not gonna happen in two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u551	Perhaps Mrs Ouwehand's interruption is a question to read out my other motions. It's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u552	No, but that's not how it works. You have already finished your speaking time, but Mrs Ouwehand or anyone else may always interrupt you on the motions that have been tabled. I am also going to be very strict with Mrs Ouwehand. Mrs. Ouwehand, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u553	That's right. I only have a tip for Mr Baudet, because my group had the same problem. We used the speaking time in last week's budget to put forward a number of motions relating to this debate. We have not yet put it to the vote. So you can also make sure that you can make all the proposals you want to make in the Chamber. So that might be a tip for next time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u554	Okay. I've done that before. Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u555	But we have been waiting for this debate to hear exactly where the Minister is and where the possibilities lie. I think we have some creative ideas for that. They will be put to the vote later, because we will not let this matter go.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u556	Thank you, Mr. Baudet. That also brings us to the end of the second term of office. Again, Mr Baudet, if you really do not agree or if you want to change the Rules of Procedure, you can do so at any time. You, too, as an individual Member of Parliament, have the opportunity to change it, but that should simply be done in order. Thank you. I'm gonna take a look at the minister. Is there a need for a short suspension? Yes. Five-minute suspension? Yes. Then I'll suspend the meeting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u557	I'll give the Minister the floor. The Minister has the floor!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u558	Oh! Sorry. It's getting a little late, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u559	It's okay. I understand that very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u560	Mr. Chairman. I just have one more thing to correct, which is something I didn't properly report to the Chamber. You always have to put something like that right in time. This is about whether you can calculate the peak chargers with AERIUS calculator. I was wrong. In principle, you use AERIUS calculator to calculate the nitrogen deposition, but you can also insert the source data from the agricultural count. Then you can do it. So excuse me for not doing that right. Mr Futselaar has made his point. Mr Klaver asked to send a timeline a week after the recess. It's possible. I will. Mr Klaver said that the provinces are now on the move. That suggests we're out of the game. This really is something that we are in together and in which we also have to work together because we are both competent authorities. Moreover, even if only because we are making money available for measures that fall down in the province, for example. So it's not just up to the provinces to decide what's going on. Mr Harbers asked whether the drafting of the motions for resolutions adopted on the measurements could still be described in a letter. It's possible. We will. I think that in the week after the autumn recess we can send it to the civil servant's lodge. Mr Geurts asked to involve the sector. We will certainly do that. Mr De Groot says: do not wait for Remkes' report, but start thinking about the strengthening and restoration of nature. We're working on that, too, so that's good. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the motions. The motion in part No. 173 is asking for a big project. The Grote Projecten Scheme has quite some conditions for reporting. It's also really a lot of work, because it's a really big report. I would really like to use all the manpower and women's power to tackle this nitrogen crisis. If I have to report in this way, I really have to clear a lot of people for that. I just need it in practice right now. In addition, the provinces are a very large part of the impact, because we are both competent authorities. I can't force the provinces to join a big project. So then you have a very specific part of the information. On that basis, I would really advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 174 on the voluntary scheme for agriculture. The motion states: "(...) with the provinces to ensure that farmers have insight (...)." I'm going to consult with the provinces, because that's the way things are. But if I can read the motion like that, I can give the motion judgment chamber. The same applies to the motion in part No. 175. I also read this motion as an effort and not as a result obligation, because I am not in a hierarchical relationship with the provinces. If I may read the motion like that, then this judgment is Chamber. On Mr Kops' motion on item No. 176 we have already exchanged some of the content. That's why I advise against this motion. In consideration of her motion in part No. 177 calls Mrs Ouwehand that it is not legally sustainable. We've had a discussion about whether or not it is. In that light, I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 178 is addressed to the House of Representatives. I don't have to find anything else. The same applies to the motion in part No. 179. It's also addressed to your own room. The motion in part No. 180 calls for the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. I've just indicated that I don't think that's my role. I reject this motion, but I understand that Mrs Ouwehand's colleague in the European Parliament has taken up the gauntlet. The motion in part No. 181 is for colleague Van Nieuwenhuizen. The motion in part No. 182 calls for all proposed measures to be assessed against the evaluation framework of the Council of State. That's just the discussion we had about the Council of State not being an advisor or anything like that. He doesn't have a consultative role. He has a legal role. That's why I advise against this motion. The European approach to nitrogen problems is very different from one Member State to another. So I do not think it would be useful to argue for this at European level. I do not think there is a great chance of a broad European approach, because all Member States must take action themselves. That is why I advise against the motion in part No. 183. Then there are the motions on pieces Nos. 184 and 185 by Mr Futselaar. They actually see a bit of the same thing. We're looking at a threshold. We have asked for information from the Council of State. These motions are actually already filling in for which the threshold should be used. I think that's a little premature. I would first like to see whether we can introduce that threshold, how high it is and what it is already doing for different projects. So I can only ask you to hold these motions until we know more about the threshold. Then we can discuss what you're doing. If that doesn't happen, I'm gonna advise against the motions on pieces Nos. 184 and 185. In the motion in part No. 186 by Mr Bishop is a statement which I do not entirely share, I have to say, because it says that the cabinet is mainly committed to buying up farms. That's not true. I have indicated in several places that we have several instruments that we use. The request is to invest more with the sector in reducing emissions from technology and management measures. We're already working on that. We've already included that in the letter. So the combination of the observation that I do not share and the fact that we have already mentioned those things in the letter leads me to discourage the motion. But it's a little weird, 'cause we're doing it. Only, therefore, I do not share the observation and we have already announced that we are doing it this way. But in that light, I advise against the motion. In the motion in part No. 187 of Mr Bishop is asked to introduce and set a threshold. I just said that we're going to submit it to the Council of State. This motion is pushing me too hard. So in that light, I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 188 concerns the debate on Natura 2000 policy that I had with Mr Bishop. I've explained the problems of realizing this. In that light, I advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 189 by Mr Baudet on migration. That has already been discussed. I don't recommend that motion. Then the motion to part No. 190. I had an interrupting debate on this with Mr Baudet. I also advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u561	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Minister for Infrastructure and the Water State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u562	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Then only the motion remains in part no. 181 by Mrs Ouwehand. It invites the government to reduce the maximum speed on all Dutch motorways to a maximum of 100 km/h. It will not surprise Mrs Ouwehand that I am not recommending this motion, in fact in line with the debate we had today during the budget debate. We have agreements in the coalition agreement and, in accordance with the opinion of the Remkes Committee, we have opted for the area-oriented reduction of the rate where it is important for the reduction of nitrogen deposition in the Natura 2000 sites.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u563	The Chamber also adopted a motion asking the government to do everything in its power to achieve the Urgenda goal. Reducing the speed limit would help. So I'm a little surprised about this, because the target is still not being achieved. I have not yet seen measures taken by the cabinet to ensure that that goal is achieved. So I do not really understand why the Minister rejects this proposal, given the motion adopted by the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u564	With regard to Urgenda, you will be fully informed of how we will deal with this. You also know that there are many different ways of achieving these goals. You will be informed of this in a different way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u565	Thank you. The Secretary of State has no motions. Then we have come to the end of this debate. I would like to thank the leaders, the MPs, the people who have been in the public gallery and the people who may have followed this debate through other media.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-17-tweedekamer-11.u566	We shall be voting on the motions tabled in the week of 29 October. I would also like to thank the Stenographic Service, the messengers and the officials. I wish you a very happy autumn recess. I'm closing the meeting.
