ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u1	I now give the floor to Mr Wassenberg, on behalf of the Animal Party, for his question to the Minister for Medical Care, whom I warmly welcome. His question is about three deaths and a miscarriage by eating contaminated meat. I call Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Another food contamination. After EHEC, salmonella and MRSA, there is now the listeria bacteria that killed. Serious consequences: three people died and one woman miscarriage from eating contaminated meat. The holding where the contaminated meat came from had already been checked several times. Those controls, in 2017 and in 2019, found infections, but they were below the standard, according to the Minister. Yet people died after eating that meat. My first question to the Minister is therefore: should this standard not be much stricter? If an infection is under the norm and then there are deaths, then that standard is wrong. The listeria bacteria is different from other bacteria, because it also shares at low temperatures. That also happens in the refrigerator and in people's homes. Then I have questions about the inspections, because after the checks in 2017 and August 2019, where infected meat was found, the company was fined last September because hygiene was not in order. I ask the Minister: why does a company get so many rematches? Why wasn't the company locked up much earlier? First, contaminated meat is found at two checks, then hygiene is no good and only when people are killed is the place shut down. Mr. Chairman. Since 2008, at least five studies have been published showing that monitoring of the meat chain is not appropriate. There is research from the Security Research Council, among other things. Over and over again, little or nothing seems to change. The recent 2Solve research says: "A number of findings from the research 'Vanthemsche II' remain current despite several improvements made." That research Vanthemse II was already from 2011. There is no shortage of plans, but improvements all the more. I ask the Minister: what is he going to do to protect public health from diseases associated with the meat sector?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u4	Thank you, Mr President. The speaker made a point about the death of a number of people as a result of eating pre-packaged meat products. I think everyone hates these deaths, because we really need to be able to count on our food being safe in the Netherlands. That is why I would like to point out that we have a well-functioning system with RIVM and NVWA. In particular, these two bodies ensure that there is a proper alert mechanism and that good action is taken. In the end, of course, we are dependent on signals and the RIVM and the NVWA also take these signals very well. Mr. Chairman. What is so specific about this case that Mr Wassenberg describes? That is that a new technique has been found in the past year, which links the signals you need on the one hand, and the source of the pollution much more directly to each other. We didn't have the so-called WGS system a few years ago, we did now. It is incredibly complicated to find the listeria bacteria, which are different types of which can occur in all kinds of food, but it is not so common, but it can occur and it can be that people become ill from it to find it and then link it to the source. That's incredibly complicated. We couldn't do that a few years ago, and now we can. To put it another way: in the past, searching for a needle in a haystack was a better way to find pins in the haystack. So I think we can still benefit from that in the years to come. This does not diminish the seriousness of the situation, but this indicates that there is an improvement. That is what Mr Wassenberg's last question was about. We can benefit from this improvement. Then there is the question of whether the standard should be stricter. The standard that has been created is a European standard. It's based on eating by a healthy person. The speaker knows that if there is someone with a weakened system or someone who is pregnant, it is always important to consult the Food Centre site to see whether or not to eat certain foods. For, of course, we are proposing different standards for baby food than, in this case, meat products. Then there is the question of inspections. I think the inspections here have responded alertly. They also inform me from day to day. That's what the NVWA is doing right now. I am also sure that she will continue to do so in the coming days, at least for the next one and a half weeks, because I asked her to do so. So we know exactly what the effects of the recall and the public warning are.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u5	The Minister is talking about the source of pollution. I have a question about that, too. I'd like to know where that disinfectant came from. Was that the meat processing company? Was this the source of contamination or has the contamination of the meat or animals already occurred in the chain, so that the listeria bacteria may be found in other farms? Is research being carried out on the slaughterhouses supplying this plant? The Minister says that we must be able to count on our food to be safe, but as I said earlier, I started by saying that, unfortunately, there have been deaths. Does the Minister recognise that he simply cannot deliver on this promise in terms of safety in the meat chain? I already referred to the various inspection reports: Vanthemsche I, Vanthemsche II, the Safety Research Council and recently 2Solve. We slaughter 605 million animals a year in the Netherlands. That's 1,200 a minute. That's 11 pigs in one minute at one slaughterhouse. There's no way to check against that. Report after report says that everything goes wrong in slaughterhouses and that supervision there is no good at all. So I ask the Minister how he can guarantee that the food safety of meat products is in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u6	The first question was, is Sacrificeman the source? Yeah, Sacrifice man is the source. RIVM and NVWA invented this with the help of this new technique. So we can be quite clear about that. At the same time, Offerman is a meat processor, a meat cutter, and not a producer. The safety in the meat chain is worth a lot to all of us. That is why we must continue to look for the right measures and continue to apply the right standards. There are always risks, but in general our food in the Netherlands is safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u7	Finally, Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u8	Yeah, finally. The Minister also mentioned consumer information. The Minister also wrote that the company should inform customers and that it should make public warnings. He's repeating that now. But shouldn't it also apply to supermarkets? I read that Albert Heijn knew since Friday that there was contaminated meat in his shops, but initially chose not to mention it on the website, because they would not be obliged to do so. It was not until Sunday that the notification appeared on the website. My question is: shouldn't that also be mandatory? I also have a question that is actually a little related to that. The Minister has also written that it may take a very long time before a listeria infection reveals itself. In his letter he wrote that it could take 70 days. Does this mean that we may be able to expect more victims from this company in the next few weeks? Can he say anything about that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u9	First of all, the issue of information. In this case, information must be provided by the company Offerman. They need to do public information, because they also deliver directly to shops, and they need to inform their suppliers. So they have to do both. That's most of it. In addition, supermarkets must inform consumers on their website and at the level of the shelves, because that is what we want. We want to make sure that what is on the shelf is good; if that is not good, they have to get it back. I think Jumbo did a very good job with a very comprehensive list on their website. I think AH was too late with that. I understand the company apologized for that. I think we should be very vigilant about that. We rely on good food and that confidence often runs through the fact that we do our shopping at the supermarket. Then I get to the point of 70 days. I would very much like us to find those pins in the haystack more often, as I said in my first answer. We will therefore use this technique more often. I will ensure that NVWA is also very alert on this point in the coming period, because I think it is important that our food is safe.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u10	Thank you, Mr. Wassenberg. Mrs Diertens on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u11	It is, of course, very serious that it has come to this point that vulnerable people have also died from it. You say we have to have faith in the products we eat. You mention a number of measures from supermarkets and industry, but how are we, as a government, going to ensure that we can influence them, so that people who have lost confidence now get the confidence that they can eat what is safe?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u12	I already told you what the most important points are. The first is the set of standards. It's important. These standards are set at European level, but I think that this case, too, gives rise to the European standard of how many bacteria are allowed to be in a certain form of food? It is not to be used as a dead end and as a permanent use, but to continue the discussion about it in Europe. That's one. Two. On the issue of recall and public information, I believe that companies in the chain should all be very alert. The supervisory authorities have an important role to play in this. I think they're doing a good job of it. As soon as the NVWA finds that this incident, this situation, has been dealt with, I want to get some sort of wrap-up from the NVWA which also addresses the issue of strict attention to recall and public information. We want to have confidence in the food that is in the store.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u13	And that information is shared with the Chamber, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u14	That is my intention, Mr President. I sent you a letter last Friday and I would also like to make some sort of wrap-up. I expect it to be in your room within a few weeks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u15	If you buy meat products in the supermarket, you want to assume that is safe. Unfortunately, we now have to note that it has gone wrong again. It has gone wrong several times at one and the same company. In fact, this meat processing company has already found this listeria bacteria twice before. Now the Minister says that thanks to a new method we can find the source better. Thanks to this new method a pin was found earlier. Does the Minister agree with me that if we are going to find pins more often at one and the same company, we should also step up our efforts?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u16	Yes. I believe that this new method, that whole genome sequencing method, can indeed lead us to warn, impose a fine rather than close a business. They are all possibilities and I expect that the use of this new technique can also lead to earlier intervention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u17	I do not quite understand why the Minister can insist that our food safety system is working well. We see that the NVWA has been on that company several times since 2017. Listeria was found, but it was below the norm. Bad cleaning has been found, but not enough to perform. And now, thanks to a new technique, we find out that in that same period dozens of people from that company were infected with listeria, and a number of people died. Then you can't help but notice that there's been a failure in the last two years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u18	Listeria is found in many places: in the gastrointestinal tract of healthy people and animals, in the environment, in water and in soil. Listeria can thrive at fridge temperature. Listeria is mainly found in long-term refrigerated products that are eaten without heating. Risk products include raw milk cheese, pre-packed smoked fish or raw animal products.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u19	That's what the spokesmen knew.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u20	I would like to point out that there are a lot of different producers. Linking the few dozen cases of listeria contamination that are measured in the Netherlands per year to a particular company is extremely complex. Mr Futselaar's question was whether the monitoring of this is well under way. My impression is that that is so, so that supervision is good, and that this new methodology is helpful in bringing together a signal and the source.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u21	I am very pleased that the Minister here mentions the site of the Food Centre which states what it is all about. He has said that people on the Food Centre site can see which products are dangerous. Now I can very well imagine pregnant people doing that. But vulnerable people are in a situation where they are vulnerable for many reasons. I don't see them and massage the Food Center site to see if there's anything dangerous. So I see much more in lowering the limit values under which something is really safe and above which vulnerable people are at risk. Will the Minister strongly advocate this in Europe?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u22	We will have that conversation in Europe. The question is also what measures can be taken there. That's international. It'll take a long time. It's not easy. The speaker points to vulnerable people. I think it is important to bring the site to your attention here. A lot of people know that site. Vulnerable people in, for example, healthcare institutions have professionals around them who have a good view of the site. It is important that people consult that site. The Food Centre has also informed me that the site is also used a lot and I am pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u23	In fact, I think the Minister is overreacting to this. I hear him say "pin in a haystack," that the food chain is safe and that these are very vulnerable people. But in the meantime, we're talking about 20 serious infections. Three people died. A lady lost her baby. If, as a minister, you are dependent on a new method that can tie a and b together, but you do not act sufficiently when listeria is found below the standard, but it has been found if the listeria bacteria is found once more and if it is seen that hygiene rules are not sufficiently respected, then I really wonder what you have done as minister towards that company in the meantime. It can't be that we say now: we have a new method, we know why these people are dead, but let's just let that company go?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u24	Even more precisely, at the end of July, on 31 July, the NVWA received the first signals that 18 cases of disease could be linked to products from the meat industry in 2017. That was an initial indication. Follow-up samples were taken at that time because the exact strain of bacteria has to be found. We're gonna need some hard evidence. The new research methodology takes time, but is very precise. With this new methodology, the Netherlands can really do more than before.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u25	The minister says the NVWA stays alert. But then you're all at the end, aren't you? That's an end-of-pipe solution. You actually need to check the chain a lot sooner. I refer to the reports of Vanthemsche I and II, the Safety Research Council and 2Solve. That latest report shows that there are many things wrong in the slaughter chain and that the problems of 2011 have still not been resolved. I ask the Minister: shouldn't control in the slaughter chain be much better to avoid problems like this in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u26	I can't tie everything to everything. We're talking about meat processing and the company Offerman. Companies are constantly investigating whether listeria comes on their products. There are good analyses for this which must be carried out by producing companies. I think that generally works well and that the alert system in the Netherlands is good so that we can rely on safe food.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-08-tweedekamer-4.u27	Thank you.
