ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u1	The next item is the debate on the amendment of the Social Insurance Financing Act, the Health Insurance Act and the Income Tax Act, in order to enable the deactivation of the quota levy and to provide that the quota levy will not be levied until 2022 and any other amendments, Section 34956. He is already in the starting blocks, so I call Mr Gijs van Dijk of the PvdA. This is legislation. So, strictly speaking, you are free to interrupt as much as you can, but given the time of this evening, I would urge you to be somewhat reluctant where possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u2	I call Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, with such a title of a debate, it can only be an exciting and good debate tonight. But let me explain it to the viewers at home: it is essentially about the inclusive labour market. Those are also expensive words, but it is about everyone working together in the workplace as much as possible. This means: people with disabilities. We made this movement very politically aware with broad support here, years ago. Because it is of such great importance that people with disabilities are given a full place in every workplace in every organisation, whether in business or in government. And "a full place" means a contract with the employer. It means, in the same cafeteria, on the same floor. This is an inclusive labour market. And that's what this law is about. It's not easy just to realize that. This was achieved in the previous cabinet, by social partners, by employers and employees. It is important to make this movement, but it is not self-evident. That is why it was decided at that time to create 125,000 jobs for people with disabilities in business, i.e. businesses, and in government; eventually 125 000 jobs by 2025. So we still have a little time, but it's quite an objective. And it is necessary, because we do not want people with disabilities to fall apart. Where they used to be in the social employment service, they are now going to take the step towards a regular workplace with a regular employer. That is what has been achieved. Politically, this has been achieved, including by social partners, employers and employees. What happened? Incentives have been taken, such as a subsidy for employers to make it easier for someone with disabilities, who may need more guidance, to take that step. For an adaptation of the workplace. For all kinds of jobs that are used, including through the municipalities, but also through the social employment services. There was a real need for that, but they were all positive measures to ensure that we could actually take that step towards an inclusive labour market. So a lot has happened on that side. But it was also realized at that time that it is not self-evident. Many employers are not used to giving people who are more vulnerable, people with disabilities, a place. There hasn't been that culture with many employers yet. It has also been said that, in addition to all these temptations, we also need a stick. Because it must not be the case that people with a labour restriction fall between shores and ships. That's the stick. That's the Quotum Act. We made a very conscious agreement with each other. Not just us here, we agreed to this with employers and employees. We're gonna make 125,000 jobs. It's not gonna happen by itself, so we're gonna put a stick behind the door in case it doesn't work out. Then we're gonna talk to employers, too. Because we know that not all employers want to, but eventually they all will have to. If they do, they'll have to pay for it, because the idea is that we don't let people fall apart. That's the Quotum Act. Now we have this new cabinet and this new coalition. And what would you expect? We see a positive movement in business, in companies. The Labour Party might not have immediately thought that business would be at the forefront, but that is at the forefront. But who doesn't lead the way? Who's been behind for years? That's the government. The government is ours. It should set an example, but it does not deliver. Those are the ministries, the municipalities, the education. They don't deliver. Then you expect the cabinet to also embrace the objective that everyone has to participate, that it will use that stick and that it will say: we, as Secretary of State, as Cabinet, will sit at the top of our ministries. We're gonna set up some extra blowers. We're gonna get to work real hard. This should be done by the Cabinet, because it is so important that people with disabilities participate fully. But what does the Cabinet do? Quite the opposite. "Yes, that Quotum law is a bit firm; we're going to postpone it to 2020." Well, a nice stick is that for the government. A nice stick is that, for employers who don't want to. It is a toothless stick and it has become a toothless law, totally against the objectives we have set with politics but also with society. Speaking of reliable politics... Mr. Chairman. Tonight, therefore, the question is whether we are going to make it a fruitful evening or a chanceless evening, in which politics is failing. As far as I'm concerned, we're gonna make this a fertile night. That is why I have three proposals to restore this law and give people a perspective. Firstly, this coalition wants to eliminate the distinction between government objectives and business, with the intention that the government itself should deliver. Because the government has to deliver, but it doesn't deliver. And business is already delivering quite well, so the good behaviour of business is punished, because the government can benefit from it. So that whole government target gets thrown in the trash can. My proposal is: don't do this! Just sit on that government. Show me the good example. That is my first question to the Secretary of State. Is it prepared to address the ministries and educational institutions on behalf of the cabinet and to say that they are not abandoning the government target for people with disabilities because that is what this is about? Secondly, the debate on the buying-in of services by the government of people with disabilities. This actually makes it easy for the government to get rid of it. Because she doesn't hire people herself and doesn't say, "We really have a place for you. You're not alone in the same cafeteria. Not only do you work in the same workplace, but we'll just give you a contract." This is an inclusive labour market. So please don't let that purchase count in that target of 125,000 jobs in the government. If we take these steps tonight, we give that law teeth again, we get that stick again. Hopefully it is not necessary, but it is necessary for public employers and employers in industry who do not want to. Finally, if we do that with each other tonight, the cabinet must also show that it takes it seriously. It must set an objective for each ministry. This Secretary of State must sit with the Minister of the Interior on top of all those ministers and secretaries of state: you want this; do it yourself, in your own ministry! Show it, because the ministries are still lagging behind. If we do these three things tonight, we won't have a chanceless political night of just one night with a real law and a fruitful evening for all those people with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u4	Thank you. I call Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Every morning the alarm clock goes. We get up, shower, have breakfast, just open the newspaper or scroll for a news app before we grab our bag and go to work. And whether this is a job at the municipality, at the Empire, at the bakery around the corner or the multinational on the Zuidas, of course doesn't matter at all. What matters is that all of these people, full of energy, perhaps one day more energy than the other day, go to work to put their hands up. And that's what the VVD gives everyone. Because as self-evident as this morning ritual is for many people, it doesn't apply to all people, such as people with disabilities, people who also want to work with an employer who just has to take a bit of account of their challenge. Here too: whether this employer is the municipality, the Empire, the bakery around the corner, of course, does not matter; the point is that everyone can participate. Mr. Chairman. We agreed that by 2025 there would be 125,000 additional jobs for people with disabilities. Let us be clear: the VVD is behind this completely. The good news is we're still on track in numbers. By the end of 2016, more jobs had been achieved than the target. A compliment, therefore, to all those employers, small and large, who have worked hard to achieve this, who are at the forefront of this and who have sometimes even made this their life's work. Many employers have thus taken up the gauntlet and successfully take the initiative in creating and fulfilling jobs for people with disabilities. But in addition to these compliments, we see and hear that the actual execution in practice also sounds and cracks. Moreover, not because the objective is not endorsed by the public authorities and employers in the market, on the contrary, but because in practice it appears that a number of rules drawn up earlier and with the best intentions prove to be extremely complex and complex in practice, threatening employers to drop out. So it's time for us to step in. And luckily, that's what's happening. It is good that the Secretary of State is working on the implementation of the broad offensive she mentioned, a kind of master plan to help more people with disabilities to work. A part of the broad offensive is the simplification of the Jobs Agreement Act and quota labour restrictions. By naming this simplification, I really want to go back to the beginning of my speech: the alarm clock is going, it's time to get ready for your new working day. Again, wherever this is, of course, doesn't matter. The point is that you can go to work at all and get to work. That is why we think it is a good idea to let go of the difference that the government needs to create an x number of jobs and that the market needs to create an x number of jobs. Not to make it easier for one person or to make it easier for the other because the other is running faster, it's about getting jobs. We must make it as simple as possible for all employers to create jobs so that they can then contribute to the total number of jobs agreed without too much red tape. And that's exactly what we're doing for the group of people with disabilities who really want to work. We believe that this will make it easier to achieve the 125,000 jobs. That brings me to two of the main issues that this legislative proposal should deal with. Firstly, it is possible to deactivate that quota levy, a wish already expressed by the VVD when adopting the original law. Deactivation simply means that once the number of jobs agreed has been achieved at some point, the previously activated quota levy can be deactivated and thus also eliminated. It is, of course, strange that employers should continue to pay fines while the jobs may just have been realized at a next measurement time. Secondly, we are now formally putting in place the further simplification of the Jobs Agreement Act in line with the aforementioned broad offensive, avoiding unnecessary costs. So we are not setting up a system to impose a fine immediately. As far as the VVD is concerned, this would also be at odds with the movement that has been launched since 2015 to create additional jobs for people with disabilities. Also the few seemingly smaller adjustments that are now underway, for example, see the group of people with disabilities who, with support from their employer, were earning just above the statutory minimum wage and fortunately now continue to count for a guarantee job. This encourages employers to continue investing in people and to make the employment relationship more sustainable. These employers can continue to claim the no-risk policy and the wage cost advantage. So all important points that contribute to the achievement of those 125,000 jobs by 2025. A goal that everyone agrees with. For let us be honest: it should also be the honour of employers not to achieve these jobs. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. My party is confident that the 125,000 jobs will be achieved. That doesn't change the fact that you need to be prepared for an unforeseen outcome. It is therefore important for the Secretary of State to proceed urgently with the further development of the simplification of the Jobs Agreement Act and thus the elaboration of the new quota regime. The VVD is in favour of the State Secretary's idea of rewarding employers who employ extra people with disabilities and making employers who do not work for them pay a supplement. However, we must be careful not to re-establish too complex and complicated a system. I would like to hear a response from the Secretary of State on this point. Can she explain her ideas a little more or am I a little impatient after all? In any case, the VVD considers it important that the Secretary of State remains in consultation with all parties in the field in the coming period. We ask that we also have a specific focus on the smaller employers. Although there are currently smaller employers who consciously choose to create one or even more jobs for people with disabilities from an intrinsic motivation, we cannot impose this on all small employers and entrepreneurs as far as the VVD is concerned. The VVD supports the Secretary of State's approach to the new regulation which it explained in its letter of 20 November last year and looks forward to further development. Eventually, we're doing it for those doers who really want to get to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u6	In addition to the fact that previous agreements with this law are placed in the garbage, the big question to the advocates of this law is, of course, how they will honour that promise of 125,000 jobs, of which 25,000 for the government. Because every penalty, every stick behind the door, is off the table with this law. How are you going to achieve these goals?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u7	In my opinion, the Secretary of State explained in her letter that she is currently in consultation on this issue and that she is also going further along with employers, both with government and with market employers. I have every confidence in the cultural change. Mr Gijs van Dijk also mentioned this cultural change in his speech. It took a while to get this far. We have to go through with it. We also see that the total number of jobs at the moment still meets the commitments we have made. I have just said that it must be their honour for employers not to achieve these jobs. And again, I think by eliminating the difference between the market and the government, we are creating more opportunities for people with disabilities to get a job. We are actually only busy at the moment counting in small systems, looking at what, in which sector, a job would or would not count. That is all senseless energy, which I think we can put much better into creating jobs for these people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u8	Well, Mr President, the answer is: we are working on it and I must read the letter from the Secretary of State. But I do not get a specific answer to the question of how these targets are being achieved while sanctions have been dropped. Has Mrs Nijkerken also read the opinion of the Council of State, which is quite destructive? The Council of State wonders what is actually the function of the Jobs Agreement Act. If you remove those sanctions, isn't it just an accounting exercise? Do you share the view that that is destructive criticism?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u9	Again, I think the Secretary of State is even gonna talk about it. I also called on her to come to a new conclusion with speed, which is less complex. The bonus-malus system still applies as a stick behind the door. Let us reward employers who take the lead in this and continue to lead the way, in relation to employers who ultimately lag behind, for whatever reason. So that stick behind the door is still there. At the moment, we have also achieved the number of jobs. You can now impose a fine, but what job did you save for someone with a disability?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u10	Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u11	Yes, he said somewhat sighing. Mrs. Nijkerken-de Haan, you're with the VVD. Your party often says: a deal is a deal. The VVD is the party of the doers. This is one of those appointments that stands. It's been up for quite a while. It is not only politically made, but it is also made with employers and employees. Even your "sister party," VNO-NCW, and SME-Netherlands are deeply concerned about the great movement this cabinet is making. They say: we deliver and the government does not deliver; that is now being thrown into one big bin and that actually punishes us for our good behavior. Why are we really gonna take that stick away? 'Cause he'll work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u12	Whether it's the market or the government that didn't realize it, it's not so much the issue as it is, as far as I'm concerned. If we are currently imposing a fine on the government or on the market, then I think we are sending a wrong signal to all those parties who are currently very busy creating these jobs. They'll be punished when they're actually doing good things right now. I think that would be a wrong signal. This does not mean that, as far as we are concerned, there must be 125,000 jobs by 2025. You also know that there is more in the performance squeaking and cracking. Then I am talking about regulations that need to be adapted. The Secretary of State has come up with a broad offensive for a reason. It has been quite complicated in recent years, for example, to find people at all. We often have discussions about the findability of candidates. So there are several reasons why a number of parties have not been able to meet the number so far. If you look at the total number, we've made it. All I'm saying and what the VVD is saying is, don't look where that job happened to end up. Whether it's the market or the government, it's about a job being a job. In this way, I think we are also enabling market employers to come up with new concepts. Whether or not it's with the government doesn't matter anymore. If the market and the government join forces and ensure that those jobs are created, I think that in 2025 I am really going to have a party because we finally got the number of jobs. But if we were to impose a fine at the moment, we would send a wrong signal to all those employers who are now, despite being complicated, making that change and creating those jobs and who may even be in conversation with people with disabilities at the moment. So you give the wrong signal if you also impose a fine on that same employer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u13	I think it's an unclear story. What was the signature of the VVD from a few years ago? The VVD and the Labour Party have said together: we need that stick. We've been a few years. The Labour Party is no longer in the cabinet. There are other parties in that now. It might be a more right-wing cabinet. And now the VVD says: I think it's getting a little complicated, because maybe a fine is getting close, especially for government employers; let's stop it anyway. Isn't that contrary to the creed of your party: a deal is a deal? What's the VVD signature worth? A few years ago, she supported a law, but now she says: the moment we have to fine some employers is now getting close; let's not do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u14	The VVD does not close its eyes to the squeaking and cracking of rules that we have all devised with the best of intentions, because we thought it would be easy in the execution. It doesn't seem like it. It's not for nothing that the Secretary of State comes up with a broad offensive. We all agree with the objective and believe that we need an inclusive labour market, that everyone should be able to participate and that those jobs should be created. That's exactly what I'm committed to. I want those jobs there, but there's no more job if we're fineing a government employee right now. In fact, I think we're only gonna scare the people who are working on that every day. They'll think, "What the hell am I doing this for?"
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u15	Finally, very briefly. The government employers do not deliver year by year, and that is a real shame, because the government should set a good example. What does the VVD do with this coalition? She says: that is not easy for us either. Business is doing well; that's good, we're withdrawing the possible fine. I think it's really incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u16	Thank you, Mrs Nijkerken. Mr Renkema van GroenLinks has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u17	Thank you, Mr President. In this Chamber we have more recent discussions about quotas in the labour market: a quota for women at the top of the business world and recently a quota for inviting 50-plussers to interviews. I also refer to a quota for employing people with disabilities. That's what today is about. Quotas are actually a very tricky tool. You prefer not to use them, because you hope that employers themselves have sufficient social involvement and also see the added value of as diverse a workforce as possible. If it is necessary to take measures, everyone prefers to use the root rather than the stick. GroenLinks does have a different picture of employers than the cabinet. We see that there are employers, already, who really set a good example and really want to give everyone a chance. But most of all, we can see that that group is small. Less than 10% of employers employ people with disabilities. In the end, this figure of 125,000 can be reached, but it also means that 90% of organisations and employers do not bother to give a person with a disability a chance. Can you speak of a truly inclusive labour market and a truly inclusive society? Not as far as GroenLinks is concerned. Last week I noticed the obviousness of a diverse workforce on the study trip of the permanent Committee on Social Affairs. In Sweden, every government organization we came to reports the number of men and women they employ, but also whether the Director-General of the Agency is a man or a woman. We noticed that, but the Swedes did not notice it, because it has become commonplace there. There is no inclusive society unless each organisation accepts its responsibility. That is why we are in favour of quotas. With this you force everyone to think about the question: how can I give someone with a disability a place in my company? How many are there now? How many could it be? How many would it have to be? You don't choose the easy way, but you choose the most inclusive way. I would like a response from the Secretary of State. How does it see the role of employers, but also the role of the central government? Does she agree with GroenLinks that all employers have an equal role in this and not just a select group? GroenLinks does not support removing the shot between government and market. There are two reasons for this. The first was discussed in detail here last October. A very important meeting was then put aside by means of a motion. An agreement made in 2013 between social partners and the cabinet. A change of course such as this deserves a broader consultation and a different process. But the second reason is more important. Leaving aside the distinction between market and government, a number of administrative problems and implementation problems are solved. The distinction is sometimes very artificial indeed. But it's not for nothing. After all, the government is exemplary and has therefore set itself this high ambition. It was even one of the foundations of the Participation Act, according to the Secretary of State in the report. As far as we are concerned, that was a good ambition, this high own standard for the government. It was also a normative pronunciation. The government shows that this is really important. We are very sorry that the cabinet is abandoning this. The child appears to be thrown away with the bath water. In the explanatory memorandum and in the report, the Secretary of State mentions all kinds of reasons why the government cannot achieve its own objective. My question to her is: is the number of 25,000 actually still there or does she distance herself from it? The follow-up question is logical: what are the administrative arrangements and a working agenda, if there is no incentive to reach that figure of 25,000 as a government? As far as GroenLinks is concerned, too, choose not the easy way, but the most inclusive way. My colleague Lisa Westerveld has tabled an amendment to the OCW budget with the PvdA to make it possible for 100 schools to provide additional guidance on the integration and supervision of people with disabilities. Speaking of carrots and sticks, that's a carrot. This amendment did not receive a majority. But it is precisely schools that can benefit in many ways from the use of people with disabilities: in terms of work pressure, but certainly also educational and social. I know from my own experience that this does not come about by itself in education either. Mr. Chairman. With the legislative proposal before us, the cabinet has not yet abolished the quota regime, but it is working towards it. In the first instance, the bill only arranged for the tax to be postponed for a year and could also be reactivated if the numbers were reached. My party could still agree with that. However, a letter of amendment has now provided for the suspension of the levy until 2022. Employers may be able to calculate on the basis of a tool, but they will not be paid: they will be charged, they will not pay. Can the Secretary of State confirm that, as far as she is concerned, this means that the quota regime will indeed be reactivated and that there will be no levy? How does it prevent the new system that she writes about and wants to introduce with an inclusive storage and a bonus-malus scheme from ending up in all kinds of implementation problems? Then we're back to square one. The only thing we have done now is to keep track of the situation for a year, but no employer is really called upon to do so. Then we go back to the no commitment of good conversations and hope that it will be okay. We don't trust it's gonna work itself out. There is a large group of people at home, a group that used to have a place in the social workshops. Students from practical education and training do not automatically find a workplace, and the number of people receiving sheltered work is far too low. Mr. Chairman. Around that last target group a question. Is the Secretary of State prepared to examine whether the current job agreement can be extended to cover the number of sheltered workplaces? The ambition would then go to 155 000 workplaces, some of which are temporarily sheltered or not. In this way, we make not only the municipalities but also, above all, the employers responsible for achieving sufficiently sheltered work. We believe that a more comprehensive approach is appropriate here. I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. For an inclusive labour market, you need roots and sticks. As far as we're concerned, the stick stays right behind the door. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u18	Thank you. Mr Peters has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u19	A brief interruption. I must congratulate Mr Renkema on his contribution. I liked that he started his input with Sweden, where virtually everything is gender-neutral except statistics. In itself, that's funny and that quota too. If you asked people there "why do you actually keep those statistics; the goal is that 50% of the people in trouble is man and 50% of the people in trouble is woman," they replied: no, that's not the goal, but that's the government's job; so we stick to it, but we don't do anything with it. So much for the quota. I do have a point for Mr. Renkema, because he really has the idea that a quota will help. Then I think: can you imagine that if we apply a quota to all kinds of areas, we'll get something called what gets measured, gets done? I've also been practicing English in the last week, Mr. Renkema. For example, a company is offered in a purchase contract: you must and you will have 20% of the assignment fulfilled by start-ups in the labour market. That company does that, gets the job, and has to fire 20% of the current staff, because we have that quota in that thing. Or we say here, for example: as a municipality, you must employ people with a distance from the labour market. But I can't really get them anywhere from anywhere except, for example, from my social work facility, where I currently have my loan rule that doesn't help. Can you just specify where on earth that quota as a rigid agent contributes to placing one person?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u20	There are quotas of all kinds. That's what we heard in Sweden. That is certainly true when it comes to the appointment of people. It is difficult for people with a distance from the labour market to enter an organisation on their own. I think it is important not only for the benevolent employers who, on the basis of this intrinsic motivation, are already doing so, but for all organisations to realise that it is important that they get a place in our organisation. At the time you make agreements about this, it is also purely quantitative, so that you say that it would mean that you employ so many percent of people with disabilities, which leads to a different conversation, including in organisations. Now it's still true that if others do, I like it, but I don't have to. When that is agreed, we realize: how many people do we employ, can we employ more people, what would be the added value of starting a different policy? This discussion can now be quite simple, at least by abandoning the distinction between the market and the government, by educational institutions and by other public institutions, and a quota prevents it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u21	That's kind of interesting. I can totally follow Mr Renkema, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u22	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u23	Just not in terms of quota. Every company, every institution, every government, and every school. We've both been school directors. The question is whether that means hiring them as a school or that I can outsource my cleaning, security or janitor duties to a company that employs those people. Doesn't matter, does it, Mr. Renkema? It's a human being at work, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u24	That's not the point at all. This distinction is also made regularly: do they have to be employed themselves or can you arrange it through hire? I do not think that as a government organisation you should say that all these people should be in their own service, not even for education. However, at the moment when you say that it leads to so many practical problems, implementation problems, and that the shot has to be taken away for the government really no more reason at all to meet that quantitative objective and then we have lost it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u25	Mr. Peters, the third.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u26	Finally, Mr President. Interesting, because even then we get a little closer together. Contrary to what I have just heard Mr Van Dijk of the Labour Party say, it is therefore not necessary, as far as you are concerned, to employ people with a distance from the labour market themselves, if you are to organise it through borrowing if necessary. I find that interesting. We'll get a little closer together. I think I'd better stick with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u27	Then perhaps rounding off at this point. What bothers me about removing that shot is simply that practical problems are now being used to question a basic choice, 25,000 people with a disability in the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u28	And then finally. I think the Secretary of State has made it very clear that the intention is not. That conversation remains and that number remains, only the way of that root and that stick, as you call it, changes. I have the occasional feeling that if someone has a hammer for tools, he wants to knock on everything and I don't think that's what we want. The one with the carrot and the stick is gonna be decorated differently.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u29	I've been asking questions about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u30	I think we'll wait together for the Secretary of State's answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u31	Thank you. Then Mr Raemakers of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u32	Thank you, Mr President. I think we all have the same goal here: that more people with a distance from the labour market can have a place to work, to develop and to be part of society. This bill is part of that. There are many things within the broad offensive: the sheltered work needs to get off the ground better, it needs to pay for people to get to work and the system needs to be simpler. Today it is mainly about the latter. All employers together must be able to achieve 125,000 jobs. How do we make sure that actually happens? There are a number of things under the current regime that really don't work well. The main bottlenecks are the administrative burden of the borrowing administration and the inability to count jobs by purchasing services. That demotivates, when employers spend more time figuring out if someone can count on it than actually recruiting and hiring someone. If employers are going to say 'let me pay the fine, because it's not going to work', that means that we have to do it differently as politics. The stick, the fine, doesn't quite work in that case. I am therefore looking very positively at the Secretary of State's plan for simplification, removing the distinction between government and market and adding a new bonus incentive, where we not only have the stick that we keep but also have a root, but that new system will have to be really good. To make it work well, companies need to understand exactly how this new bonus incentive is put together, so the inclusiveness bonus and the inclusiveness premium. And the Secretary of State writes in the proposal that she wants to submit as a legislative proposal: "If the quota is activated, employers will get a bonus for every extra place they realize above their target." But then the quota must have been activated. My question would be: why don't we just give that inclusiveness bonus for the extra performance all the time, even if the quota isn't activated? After all, rewarding works better than punishing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u33	Mr Gijs van Dijk has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u34	Yes, a question to perhaps clarify, Mr. Chairman. There are now several times about this bonus-malus scheme, so reward good behavior and punish bad behavior. But as far as I know, there isn't one yet. So we're abolishing something here today and everyone's talking about the stick. That stick is desperately needed, and he's also worked. Look at the business world. However, the government does not deliver yet. There's a proposal, but that's not even a law. And in the meantime, we're gonna get rid of that stick. Where's the logic here?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u35	It is true: this bill is a bill that has already been submitted by the previous governement. New things have been added to that. We have said together: we want to move towards a new system. The Secretary of State has already put forward a number of proposals for this. Indeed, as Mr Van Dijk rightly says, they do not all have the force of law at present. But we need to do some things for the system now. I understand that it is the Secretary of State's plan to put that completely new system in the Chamber this year. Of course, we hope that will succeed, but we still have a few things to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u36	Then we're actually having a really crazy debate. Because we have a stick that works. It's been working for years. Employers are also talking about this, and they are encouraging each other to hire people with disabilities. Real good behavior is rewarded. We have a Secretary of State who has good ambitions, but we don't have any laws yet. I still don't know what this new policy and the cabinet's new plans are going to be like. You don't know exactly. There are all kinds of intentions, there are a number of scenarios. In the meantime, we say to the employers, especially the employers who show bad behavior: we are not going to fine you and we will leave you alone for a while. That sounds like a very bad signal. Can't we just postpone this law for a while and say, "We're just gonna leave the threat hanging over the market until there's something new?" That's a logical step.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u37	I do not entirely agree with Mr Van Dijk's assumption that the stick is now working well. Because we now see that government employers feel they are being held back to employing people. Not only is the borrowing administration very complicated, but we also have to acknowledge honestly that some government employers are not sufficiently equipped to take catering or cleaning in their own homes, for example. There may be a need for good analysis of why. But I prefer that someone gets to work with that government, no matter what title that happens, and whether it's buying or borrowing or whatever. But I just see it's happening way too little right now. I've been to see government employers, too. They showed me: these people with a distance from the labour market work here, but we do not directly employ them ourselves. I said, "Why don't you hire them?" That's what I heard: that's complicated, we don't have that expertise. There will be all kinds of stories and there will be all kinds of explanations. Apparently, that's a lot wider.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u38	Mr. Gijs van Dijk, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u39	I see business is at the forefront. For Mr Raemakers, I say: we are the government ourselves; that is us. Despite all the government's objections, the business community says: we just do it, even if it's complicated, just separate from that fine, and we're leading the way. Government employers seem to be ignorant, so apparently we are ignorant. Because they find it scary, because they raise all kinds of objections, we are already going to raise a number of possible additional objections to that government. I think that's a bad signal. We have an exemplary role to play here and we will have to take the lead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u40	I agree. I also think it is very important that government employers should also be able to deliver these achievements. However, I believe that there is one difference in what we are doing now when it comes to abolishing that distinction. If on the market one employer passes on to another employer, it will of course continue to count in the market. And when someone is posted to the government via the market, it does not count in a number of cases with the government. Among other things, that is why we say: we abolish that distinction. Not because we're gonna torment the 125,000, absolutely not. Not because we say the government doesn't have to do anything anymore. We're also gonna make it easier for the government to deliver. In fact, I have a cup of it and I have a few questions about it; perhaps you are also interested in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u41	Yes, please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u42	Just to make the bridge, because I also wanted to talk about the other measure that we are now doing with this bill, namely removing the distinction between government and business. So we do that because we see that it is not going well, but we should not assume too easily that it is going to lead to a lot of extra jobs very quickly. Of course, that is not a magical thing; we must work on it as a political one. I think it is important that this system should become so clear that it will also lead to better public-private cooperation. That's our goal. Could the Secretary of State say whether it is true that she has already received signals from government organisations, from educational employers that they will indeed move to more placements with new legislation? Does the Secretary of State have any concrete signs of that? But also apart from the difficulties I mentioned earlier with the borrowing administration and purchasing, the number of jobs in the government was of course really lagging behind. We have just discussed this in the debate on the interruption. Just before the recess, the Chamber received a letter about the use of people with disabilities and the actions to increase the number of jobs. Part of this is also the work on administrative agreements. Have these agreements been signed by now? When's that gonna happen? How concrete and binding are these agreements, including for government employers? Mr. Chairman. I want to talk about purchasing services and hiring staff. If this is done by a specialised employer who is good at guiding people with a distance from the labour market, the proposed changes will make it even easier. However, for me it remains a very important question of how we can ensure that jobs of this kind become sustainable. So we don't want people to go in and out of work over and over again. The deletion of the t+2 rule already makes it more attractive to keep people in service, but I think more is needed. I'd like to ask what the Secretary of State is up against. What options do we have to further promote sustainable work and combine it with the ease and expertise of purchasing services? I think we really need to make another move. I would also like to touch on the point that Mr Renkema mentioned, in order to achieve more sustainable places. What does the Secretary of State think of Cedris' suggestion to include sheltered work in the job agreements? Perhaps this can also help to make people switch more easily, from regular work to sheltered work and vice versa, but preferably with the same employer. Can this be investigated, for example? Finally. As far as the D66 Group is concerned, the proposed simplification is a positive change. In order to make this simplification possible, this legislative proposal is necessary. In the meantime, we need to ensure that the focus remains on achieving those 125,000 jobs and that everyone, business and government, continues to feel the need for an inclusive labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u43	Thank you. I call Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u44	Mr. Chairman. We are here tonight because the government has failed to create enough jobs for people with disabilities. I understand that the Brexit has been dealt with by now, so I assume that the number of viewers is increasing now that the matter has been dealt with in the United Kingdom. Back to the subject, Mr. Chairman. What's the story again? In 2015, the Participation Act was introduced by the Rutte II Cabinet. It meant a considerable deterioration for people with disabilities. De Wajong was stripped of his clothes, introduced the household allowance and closed the social work facility. A total cut of almost 2 billion euros, which was sold with a nice talk about participation and inclusiveness. In practice, a lot of people are at home. But there was one bright spot: the job deal. People with disabilities would get a job with government or business. In order to ensure that these jobs would actually be created, a quota levy was envisaged, a fine, if the number of jobs promised were not to be met. With that fine, it would be much easier to get all those people to work. Let's look at the numbers. The agreement was to create 125,000 jobs for people with disabilities by 2025. Well, it has been said before: business is on course, but the government is lagging behind. 10,000 jobs should have been created in 2017. It didn't turn out to be 6,500. So it's time for action! But that's not gonna happen, because the government wants to postpone that fine with this law. The government doesn't live up to its commitments, and now the sanction is being postponed. That's a bit of a farce. The Council of State is therefore strongly critical. He calls the law a "bookkeeping exercise," a rather destructive qualification. I'd like a response. At the same time, we know the alarming figures of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau. For people with disabilities, the risk of a job fell from 50% to 30%, thanks to the Participation Act. Does this Secretary of State acknowledge that Rutte II's policy is bankrupt? The aim was to help people with disabilities to get to work, but that is not possible. Meanwhile, government employers who are lagging behind in hiring people are exempt from their obligations with an administrative trick. The distinction between the market and the government in the job deal is deleted. The same government also fails when it comes to creating sheltered workplaces. I have some questions. What guarantee will the Secretary of State offer that the government will still employ enough people with disabilities? Is it correct that you are considering a bonus for organisations that employ many people with disabilities? And if so, is it not wise to introduce this law only after you have introduced the new policy? You shouldn't sell your old shoes if you don't have a new one. That was him, wasn't it? Question two. Are you also going to ensure that there are net more jobs for people with disabilities? Because now the newly created jobs of the job agreement can barely compensate for the missing jobs of the social employment service. Three. Will you stop the ongoing cuts in SW and prevent social services from being closed down? Four. Are you going to re-introduce the Wajong benefit for people with working capacity, now that it appears that these young disabled people are much less likely to get to work? Mr. Chairman. My call: stop this charade, get jobs for young disabled people and give them a decent benefit if that job is not available. A good arrangement for people with disabilities is a question of civilisation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u45	Thank you. Then we have now arrived at Mr Edgar Mulder of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u46	Big, big words were: 125,000 extra jobs with regular employers by the end of 2025. And on 8 September 2017, the cabinet writes very coolly, and I quote: "Activation of the quota levy endorses the importance that the cabinet attaches to the agreement in the 2013 Social Agreement." But now, more than a year later, it appears that the numbers are not being reached and the activation of the quota is going to hurt the government. What do you do as a government? Are you saying you're sorry? "Sorry, we were wrong, but we're gonna do better; here's our plan of action"? No. We're just adjusting the law to get out of the agreements we made. In fact, this adjustment is simply an accounting trick to get out of legal obligations. That's bizarre, of course. You should try that as an ordinary citizen. The changes we are talking about here today will also not ensure that the government gains in reliability. Worse still, there are no proposals at all to change the approach. It just gets easier for the government not to deliver. Penalty and quota don't matter anymore. Even the shot between business and government will disappear. The real losers of this policy are at home. The real loser is the man or woman who still doesn't have a job. But that expectation was a bit created by those tough figures. So the real loser doesn't have a job, but he can't go to the social workshop anymore. The PVV has always been against a quota, but we would like to hear how to proceed. Finally, two questions. First of all... The PVV would like to hear from the State Secretary how the government is going to provide more regular jobs from now on. When will the people who previously promised a job in the government get it? Then there is the second question. On 13 March and 11 April, motions were adopted by the PVV which both relate to sheltered work. What about the progress and handling of those two motions? Mr President, so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u47	Thank you. Finally, Mr Peters of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Every man needs food and drink, a roof over his head and a reason to get out of bed. Any form of work is basically good: temporary, parttime, voluntary. But we also know that from research, the best form of work is permanent and paid work, because it provides income, stability, social contacts and meaningful life. This applies to all people, but certainly also to people with disabilities. Then I personally don't care where these people work. It doesn't matter who the employer is on paper. I am concerned that people simply have a job, no more and no less, and that every potential employer based on peasant penitentiary takes everything out of the box to help these people move forward. The government has an important role to play in this, as does the market. But more about that later. Mr. Chairman. Good municipalities do a lot to help people get to work. As former alderman of the very beautiful town of Oss, I tell you how we tried to do that. The greening, a large part of the security, the catering at the town hall, the mail and the cleaning company we had done by IBN: a social enterprise, once created from the social work facility. We also had it done by e.g. the PostBode. That's a social company that's already guessing it, Chairman Gets the mail. That helped a lot of people work, but for the official count it was the market that helped those people. The government didn't do much or at least little. Would it really? With this way of counting, the market laughs and the government has to pay. There's another way, of course. I heard that tonight, too. If the government wants to keep the job deal, it has to employ people itself. No problem. Then we'll just dismantle those old SW companies that have developed. Get some of those people on their own and Clara's done. In good Brabants we say: what gets measured gets done. But who the hell did we get to work? Nobody. The truth is that here in this house we all think it is important that people from a distance to the labour market come to work, all of us, and that we should draw attention to our peasantism to let the word, Christianly said, become meat too. Mr. Chairman. Yesterday I was with the working group on participation of the CNV young people. That's always a small party, as far as I'm concerned, and not just because it's very cozy; you learn a lot from it. I don't remember the words literally anymore, but one of them said, "Let companies hire people, tell them how they did it and just explain why something might not have worked out. That's what businesses learn from, and that's what governments learn from. Then we'll start talking about those conclusions. And if a shovel is to be handed out, it can always be done." I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. I told you, we all think it is important that more people with disabilities should be helped to work. I'm sure the government can do better too. As one of the reasons why government targets for the creation of additional jobs for people with disabilities have not been achieved so far, the explanatory memorandum points to the relatively higher number of jobs the government has to provide in relation to companies. The sharp decline in government employment would also play a role in this. The CDA Group recognizes that the government has to deliver more than the market and that in recent years savings have also been made on the civil service. But it's all gonna be fine. The government must indeed set a good example when it comes to providing opportunities for people with disabilities, and may then explain how it has shaped them. There are more ways to do that. Mr. Chairman. For the purpose of the quota scheme, UWV and Tax Administration have carried out several execution tests. They indicate that setting the quota levy, taking into account the transfer of hours of work by people with a disability from the lender to the borrower, is a complex, administratively heavy and risky process. If I see how complicated it is to calculate, for example, a batter-free foot, which we talked about today, then this is another one, I will say. Does the Secretary of State consider that this should be an additional argument in order to suspend this scheme indefinitely? Mr. Chairman. Finally, the CDA calls on the Secretary of State to make every effort to achieve the target of 25,000 additional jobs and once again to make an urgent appeal to the municipalities, as well as to the government, to make every effort to employ people with disabilities. In short: the CDA does agree with the proposal to suspend the quota regime, as Mrs Klijnsma did in 2017, firstly because the practice shows different things from the theory, secondly because of the difficulties to be expected in the implementation, and thirdly to create room for the simplification proposal for job agreement that the State Secretary is going to come up with. I'm very curious about that effect. So far.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u49	Mr Gijs van Dijk has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u50	And in the meantime, people are at home. That is the reality. One of the reasons is that the government creates too few jobs for people with disabilities. I know the CDA was never in favour of a quota bill. In this respect, it is therefore a consistent story. But I also find it very nonchalant. We're gonna give each other good examples, we're gonna talk to each other, and it's gonna be okay. How can it be that business is at the forefront and the government in the letter outlines all kinds of objections, as it is all complicated and there are all complex systems? Business is just delivering. Tonight, let's say: the government should set an example, because that's us. He's just gonna hire those people. What's the CDA's plan to make that happen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u51	I have heard this here today in different colours from Mr Van Dijk and also from Mr Mulder. That's just some bullshit. If a government hires people to do the cleaning, catering, mail, security, etc., you don't think they're working. That's just bullshit. That's just bullshit. It is simply calculated that 52% of the people working in this way are directly or indirectly involved with the government. I can say it doesn't fit the government by the way of counting. Well, fine, but those people are working. Or are you just saying here that the people who have been hired through that social enterprise have also been talking here for weeks and months about how important it is not to demolish that infrastructure simply aren't at work? Or are you saying no, the government has nothing to do with that? It lends them and provides assignments for the social employment services. That's all bullshit as far as you're concerned. You're just saying the government doesn't deliver. He'll deliver... 52%.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u52	There you go.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u53	Pretty good, huh? That's what I've been counting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u54	What an incredibly bullshit story from the CDA! Because, of course, there is public borrowing, through all kinds of services, but what is the inclusive labour market about? It's about not just sitting in the same cafeteria, but being part of that workplace and having the same contract. That is the inclusive labour market, and the CDA goes over that for a while: yes, through cleaning and catering we are fine with it, but for the rest, the government can walk away from the agreements already made in 2013. What kind of setup is that from the CDA? Of course there's borrowing. It will also continue to exist; SW companies will continue to exist in new forms. But we also want employers themselves, so the government first, to employ people themselves. That could exist side by side.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u55	That can exist side by side; that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u56	I have a question for the CDA. All kinds of forms are possible, including posting and self-employment, but today it is mainly about that stick behind the door. Can Mr Peters once again explain why he says that we are not going to use the instrument of that stick behind the door anymore?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u57	I think that's a very nice question. I also welcome the fact that you agree with the CDA that there are many ways of getting to work. I have two arguments for that, Mr. Renkema. The first argument is that that stick is very complicated. That's already been reported. I have just said that the execution key of the UWV and so on already indicates that it is almost impossible. But there's one more thing. If the stick I've got, a quota, a piece of wood, is where I say "you'll hire them yourself," then I'll move. Then I am going to hire people myself and then as a government I will no longer deport that assignment to IBN or any other social work facility. Then I'm not gonna put the assignment there anymore; then I'm gonna hire them myself. Then who did I get to work with? So it doesn't work. If you have a hammer to hit with, you want to knock on anything. A quota doesn't work. As far as the CDA is concerned, that is indeed, as Mr Van Dijk says, a very consistent story. I think it's true, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u58	Two short reactions. We have understood the point of complexity, but implementation and complexity should never be a reason to push objectives aside. The second point is that if you rely only on intrinsic motivation and do not want to use the external incentive that there may eventually be a sanction, it is very easy for the government to sit back.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u59	A short response; two things. Mr. Renkema, it's not supposed to do nothing and to have nothing, not a stick, behind the door. The agreement stands and the Secretary of State continues to develop something that could be a bonus-malus system. I can't wait to see what that's gonna look like. So that's not nothing; that's exactly what's going to happen. The second point is: if punishment is the way of direction... The same thing we've been through with the NS; that's a nice story. We said the trains had to run much more on time. Well, then they won't let some trains run; mission accomplished. It's bad for the citizen, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u60	Finally, we do not yet know what this bonus-malus scheme will look like. I understand that the CDA says, even if we don't know that, we're saying tonight that we don't think that stick behind the door is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u61	Finally, I said that I do not want that stick behind the door for three reasons. The first reason is that the practice really is a different one than the theory shows. The theory shows that the government doesn't deliver and doesn't hire anyone. I think I just told Mr Van Dijk in a rather fierce debate of interruption that the government is delivering but different. It is not necessary now and it is not going to happen now, because the government will deliver, albeit in a different way. That's the first reason. Secondly, this is indeed very complicated. It is stated that we cannot do that now at all. So you can also say: we leave it in, but we are not going to do it afterwards. Thirdly, I would simply like to create room for the Secretary of State's simplification proposal to really wait for it. And yes, there's a carrot and a stick, but not just a big bat in that respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u62	This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'm gonna suspend for 15 minutes and then we're gonna listen to the Secretary of State's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u63	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u64	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Members of Parliament for their contribution to the handling of this law. In any case, let me say that I am very pleased with all the words and shared views on the inclusive labour market, because if there is one thing that binds us in this debate, then it is that we all want to contribute to ensuring that people with disabilities can, must and can have a full place on the labour market. So I thank the Chamber for that. You are also aware of my proposal to simplify the job agreement system, which contributes to this. The Members of Parliament have asked a lot of questions about and made comments on this new system. However, I must inform the Chamber that I am still working on this system. Given the relevance of the subject and the complexity of the issues, which we want to provide for a simple implementation, I do not want to go ice over one night either. Many referred to the social partners involved in these social issues. I would also like to speak to the organisations concerned first. I've brought together the MPs' input on the new system. With your permission, I'll take it with me. I do not want to tell the Chamber about this effect before the summer recess, because I am very anxious to get on with the proposals as quickly as possible. In the second half of 2019 I can then offer the bill to the Chamber. I look forward to discussing this simplification with the MPs. As far as I am concerned, this can be extended and profound at that time. Mr. Chairman. Today there is an existing law on the role. You have read the beautiful title, Mr President. This bill dates from September 2017. It's still initiated by my predecessor on this file. It is intended to be able to suspend the quota and postpone the levy. This change of law is necessary for a number of reasons. I have also sent a number of letters of amendment. It includes a number of technical adaptations to the current law. Commitments have been made to the Chamber to amend sections of the Jobs Agreement Act to reflect the wishes of the Chamber. It is also about fulfilling the employment agreement in the coalition agreement. Finally, it is also intended to take into account the future in the transition period. Hence my haste to keep the transition period as short as possible. In a motion, the Chamber asked me not to take irreversible steps in the current system. That is why there is a complex of legislative changes in this area. I shall deal with the questions put to me on a subject-by-issue basis. As far as I am concerned, this is mainly about the government and the various aspects of implementation. Mr. Chairman. I agree with all Members of Parliament who have indicated that the government has an important role to play in providing jobs to people with disabilities. It is therefore with enormous energy and unabated commitment that I work together with the Minister for the Interior on this objective. I myself spoke with the PO Council and the VO Council yesterday. Education is an important sector if you look at the number of jobs. So it has our constant attention. That is also necessary, because many people have already mentioned it, although one could say that nothing is more subjective than figures... there is an important task for the government, because the figures in relation to the employment agreement are still lagging behind. Mr Gijs van Dijk asked me if I would be prepared, together with my colleague in the Interior, to address ministries and educational institutions to their obligations and not to abandon the objectives for the government. I can answer this in the affirmative too; I am very much inclined to do so. To remind you of the debates we had when we tabled the motion for a resolution on the abolition of the separation between the market and the government, I made it very clear that I am carrying out the motion under the condition that the government is still at the bar, given the results. There is a need to say about this, as Mr Peters, among others, has done, but the government still has to get to work. This means that the Minister of the Interior and I have an explicit role to play in this. The removal of that distinction must not result in the government no longer realising its numbers. That is also what I say in reply to Mr Renkema's question about the share of public employment in the employment agreement. Together with the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of OCW, because of the size of that sector, we are taking measures to encourage public employers to create more jobs. In addition, the stick remains behind the door. We have sent a letter to government employers to emphasise once again the need to make an effort to place people with disabilities on the labour market. In addition, we make administrative agreements in which government employers commit to engage in an inclusive labour market. As far as I am concerned, that is not a long job, but rather a matter of weeks rather than months. There is a constant attention from my colleague, the Minister for the Interior, and from me to continue to bring this to the attention of colleagues. It might also be good to notice something about the stick, because a lot has been said about it tonight. The root has also been mentioned a few times, but because of the nature of the legislation it is mainly the stick. I stress that the stick stays, but I do want to see a stick that works, so we are looking for a levy in a different shape and is now ahead of us to create space for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u65	In that connection, I asked: why remove all your old shoes now, since you are still working on those new shoes, so to speak. So now there's going to be a period where there's nothing. Let me get this straight. Or are you saying that enough has been done to keep the job deal intact?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u66	The job deal's on, and it's hard. The number of 125,000 jobs stands and the time schedule stands. In the way we get there, we want to see if it can be simpler. I see enormous development on the part of recruiting people, but I also see that it stagnates on the administrative side, partly because employers were mainly concerned about where a job counts. Then you block the development of creating more jobs. I also have to take responsibility for making it better and removing obstacles. That is why, in my letter to the Chamber on a broad offensive, I indicated that I wanted to make the job deal simpler. The Court then tabled a motion on the removal of market and government separation, and this is also within that ambition. However, at the moment there is still an agreement for 125,000 jobs, with a stick behind the door. That stick remains there, only with this legislation will we give ourselves time to see if we can do it better and simpler. That is why I am talking here about the haste and the ambition to inform your Chamber of this new solution before the summer, because at the end of the day the legislation is the law and this law offers the opportunity to amend agreements. I aim to achieve an improvement in the agreements to create jobs for people with disabilities by the summer of 2019 and then with a legislative proposal in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u67	That stick will therefore be postponed until 2022 and until then we must see whether the alternative, your new law, which is to come this year, will be adopted at all. Do you recognise that we are going to end up in a grey area where there is no stick at all? And if you get there, you won't see it until 2022. You do not yet know whether this new policy will be functional. Maybe the Chamber will vote it out. So what's the next three years you think that stick is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u68	It is a maximum time limit, to give ourselves the time to have that discussion. As far as I am concerned, it is really a time-limit that we can turn over sooner if we can have that discussion here too. If things are completely different: it is legislation, so how to deal with it, of course, is always up to the Chamber; I am very transparent about that. In the meantime, the numerator of the job agreement is ticking and we will continue to measure and monitor, because by 2025, and that objective is hard...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u69	Finally. Would it not then be fair to say that we want to work on an alternative, but as long as that alternative is not yet effective, we are sticking to the quota levy? Now you run the risk of getting us into a grey area where nothing happens at all. Wouldn't that be fair?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u70	If we had not had a discussion about changing our working methods, we would have been in this situation. As I said, my predecessor set the quota, but in doing so, as was agreed, she consulted the social partners on encouraging this tax too. It was concluded that this would be postponed for a year. That is also the basis of this law. So it's different things side by side. I have also used this law, which is based on it, to carry out a number of wishes of the Chamber by means of a letter of amendment, including the wish of the Chamber not to take irreversible steps during the transition period to the new instrument. That includes the letter of amendment. But it is without prejudice to the fact that, if we had not had that discussion, there would still have been, or already in the previous cabinet, a movement set in motion to encourage the quota, but to postpone the land levy by one year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u71	What the Secretary of State says has also been done in consultation with employers and employees. As it should be, because it is a joint agreement that we have made in the social agreement and in politics. But just that letter of amendment was a coalition wish to remove the distinction between government and employers. And of this both employers say that it is also on the website, and it has been said several times as well as the employees: we think it is very bad that the government target is being abandoned and that the good behaviour of business is actually being punished. The Secretary of State says that the acceptance of these partners is so important. There is no such thing now, precisely because of the letter of amendment. Is it not wise not to do that letter of amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u72	This letter of amendment gives neither direction nor substance to the new proposals. In fact, they're still in the pen or they're just in writing. So the time is not yet ripe. So I can't go that far right now to say you have to put it out of operation. This letter of amendment deals with previous agreements that have been made, and it also offers the room to make them on the spot. It is precisely with the new proposals that we very much like to speak, as with all the topics of the broad offensive, with all the partners who are committed to these objectives. I have read criticism from several quarters of the social partners, but it is precisely now that this is the time to put that criticism on the table. There was also criticism of the current system. And we'd like to go to a system that works. For me, the system is for the people, not the other way around.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u73	But there is an agreement with the social partners, the employers and employees. And this law has been established in good consultation, including the possibility of deactivation. What has not been achieved in good consultation is a motion from the coalition, which says that the distinction between government and employers must be lifted. There's no basis for that. Does the Secretary of State recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u74	The motion that has been adopted, I have here in the Chamber given the notion that it was also accepted by the authors of the motion, or at least I have felt that it should not be an extension of the objective. I have heard the various Members of Parliament express this with great determination and ambition. As far as I'm concerned, that's the condition. Then I said that, as was agreed in the broad offensive with all social partners, I am going to simplify the job deal, I am going to see your motion, I am going to work with both of them and I will join your Chamber in June. I now also see the input of the various social partners. I now also have the input of a number of political groups in the Chamber. I'm sure there's more to it. But that's what that pen is writing with right now. I would like to take stock of the situation in June, to see if we can meet the objectives and the condition that the government really remains at the bar. For that, the administrative agreements are very important to me, because I really want to see them deliver. Then we have to take stock of that balance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u75	A brief question, in addition to the question my colleague from the SP asked. This is important for my group in order to make it very clear. Does the Secretary of State say that she will be measuring in the coming years but not sanctioning, until she has developed a new set of instruments?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u76	We have agreed that this is still an agreement of September last year, so that the quota can be increased, but the levy postponed. That's what this law was for. Then there were requests from the Chamber, after which I indicated in notes of amendment that we are making a pass on the spot, because we are also in a transition period. This means, in all transparency, that 2021 is the first year in which that measurement is re-enabled in this legislation. Then 2022 is the first year in which you have that levy. Of course, the Chamber itself is there, as am I and the partners. But that's what's in store right now. If we see this summer that we have a good alternative to achieving this objective, we can do so faster than that year, as far as I am concerned. There is, by the way, a stick in that too, let me be clear about it. We finally agreed to meet that stick. It's in the books, too. I must therefore simply give substance and form to this. But it's a maximum time and not a minimum time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u77	Looks like it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u78	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u79	I do not have a supplementary question, because the answer is clear to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u80	Okay. Mr. Chairman. Mr Raemakers asked if I had received any signals that the new legislation would lead to more placements for public and educational authorities. In any case, I would like to refer to the letter sent to the Chamber by the Minister of the Interior on 19 December 2018. In this report, the Commission looks very specifically at the plans of the public sector to create jobs. It also indicates that cooperation is one of the success factors in the multi-annual approach. The ministries also work together, for example by letting people flow in group by group. They also work with other suppliers to create jobs in purchasing, as well as with other employers. In that letter, the Minister states that the proposals to simplify the way in which jobs are dealt with lead to more opportunities for job creation. I was excited by the suggestion made by Mr Peters of the CDA which he discussed at the meeting with the young people of the CNV. As far as I'm concerned, it's one of the great success factors for what works if you share what works but also what doesn't work, so if you can be honest with each other about what didn't work out. I would like to take advantage of his speech to show here how many employers there are who have already gained that experience. Mr Renkema mentioned it here: about 10% of employers employ people with disabilities and 90% do not. But let us also consider this evening those 10% employers who do, because they have taken on a very great responsibility and put on a good performance. My experience is that something will happen when employers talk to employers. See also the success of Mr Van der Gaag in his recruitment campaign for 100,000 jobs. That's almost even better than being able to enforce a law, although we'll leave that legal stick behind the door, I'll say right away. For government employers, too, there is a need to exchange experiences about hiring people from the target group for employment. A good example of this is the practical tables, in which a municipality, employers and all kinds of other representatives sit together to identify very specific problems and then to solve them. I come to the implementation aspects. Mr Peters has asked me to build on the confidence that if the charges are actually to be imposed, the UWV can implement the law. It is about the execution tests that the UWV and the Tax Administration have done. Since that happened, we have found ourselves in a new reality because we are looking for that other design. So I asked the UWV and the Tax Administration, as I believe is also stated in the motion, to stop implementing that quota levy. Mr. Chairman. I think I'm through with the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u81	That's really fast. Let me look at the Members to see if that is the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u82	I had asked the question, which I believe was also asked by D66, about sheltered work in relation to the job appointment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u83	Yeah, sorry. And there was also a question from the PVV about the motions. I see plans are now being submitted from various quarters. I think that is very constructive, but I think it is too early to go into the substance of the matter. I have said to all the social partners who have submitted plans: come to the table because we have the same objective. Covered work is an important theme both in the broad offensive and in the job arrangement. With the simple switch, so the back and forth between arrangements, we can at least reduce the transition between sheltered work and regular work, but I will involve this suggestion in the elaboration in June. Mr Mulder asked about the motions. It is indeed an appropriate point for the PVV. Your colleague De Jong has also stressed this on several occasions. I keep saying what I do now, namely that I attach great importance to the expertise of SW companies and that they form an important infrastructure with each other. We support Cedris with a grant for a project aimed at exploiting the knowledge and infrastructure. During the budget debate I indicated that I would involve these motions in informing the Chamber in spring about the development of sheltered work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u84	I had asked the Secretary of State if she would like to remain in dialogue with the parties in the coming period and with haste. In any case, I have heard that again, but I have also asked for attention to be paid to the small employers. I would like to hear a reflection from the Secretary of State on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u85	Of course. I think it is very important that we give small employers, companies with less than 25 employees, the opportunity to employ people with disabilities and with a distance from the labour market, but I do not think that they should necessarily be treated in the same way as large companies. So there is attention to it and it is also a topic of discussion with the social partners. Specifically in the first letter of amendment, we ensure that the jobs created by small employers are taken into account in the calculation of the quota rate. So we're already making meters in that case and it's clear about the specific focus on the retina.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u86	I have another question about the target per ministry. The Secretary of State states that it is very important to find this and that it intends to take it up with the Minister of the Interior. Does this mean that every year the Secretary of State and the Minister will sit on top of the relevant ministers and state secretaries per ministry to see if they have delivered?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u87	Almost literally. No... We're really on it. I really dare to say 'cause I am there myself that it is the subject of regular conversation. I'll come to the table and make appointments. We'll be there when ministers talk to their sectors. We're going around ourselves. We have organised meetings where people from ministries can watch how business is doing. This is a very important subject. I find this exemplary function, which you have also stressed very strongly, extremely important. When you talk to the market, you have to have leverage. Then, as a government, not only because of that example function but also for many other reasons, you simply have to deliver.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u88	Are there sufficient answers to the questions? That seems to be the case. Then we have come to the end of the first term of office and continue with the second term of office, with Mr Gijs van Dijk of the PvdA as the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u89	Mr. Chairman. I started by saying that this is really an important debate, because it is about an inclusive labour market where everyone is welcome on the workplace and really works fully there, including a contract. That is my preference, I say to Mr Peters. In view of the progress of the debate, I have two motions to make, because I believe that this law has no teeth and it should have to force the people, the employers who do not deliver, to go and deliver. So let us be clear about our position. The first motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government has not achieved the agreed number of jobs for people with disabilities for years;]] [[Whereas joining the quota for government and business removes the incentive for government to create jobs for people with disabilities;]] [[Whereas business now needs to resolve the bad behaviour of the public authorities;]] [[considers that everyone with disabilities should also be sure of a job with a regular employer;]] [[calls on the Government to maintain the distinction between government and business in the Quotum Act,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Gijs van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34956-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u90	The second motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that all ministries do not reach the number of jobs for people with disabilities;]] [[believes that the government should set a good example;]] [[Whereas the number of jobs per ministry is now unclear;]] [[Whereas an objective per ministry is effective in creating more jobs for people with disabilities;]] [[calls on the Government to establish and report annually on an objective of the number of jobs for people with disabilities per ministry,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34956-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u91	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u92	Thank you. I call Mrs Nijkerken-de Haan of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u93	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you also to the Secretary of State for her answers, but above all for her commitment to this dossier. The VVD is looking forward to the further development. It looks not only at the simplification of the employment agreement and the development of the bonus-malus system, so to speak, but also at the measures in the broad offensive. As far as we are concerned, they must all contribute to a labour market where people with disabilities also have a full place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u94	Thank you. I call Mr Renkema van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u95	I have one comment and one motion. The comment is about this change of law. It seems a minor change, but we think it is very fundamental. The fact that it is measured but not sanctioned is also a reason why our group will not support the amendment of the law. Then I have a motion. It belongs both to Mr Raemakers of D66 and to me. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the number of sheltered workplaces is not increasing rapidly enough;]] [[Whereas employers currently have little incentive to create a sheltered workplace;]] [[Whereas the target group for employment and the target group for employment are now considered to be two separate target groups;]] [[Whereas the employment agreement has provided an incentive for employers to recruit people with disabilities;]] [[calls on the Government to examine whether the employment agreement can be extended to cover the agreed number of sheltered workplaces, to consult with employers, employees and the VNG, and to inform the Chamber of the results of this interview by 1 May at the latest,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Renkema and Mr Raemakers. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34956-12]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u96	Yeah, just so we're clear on what's supposed to be going on. Is the sheltered work in this motion added to the job appointment? So you're going from 125,000 to 155,000? Does this also remove the distinction between sheltered work and guarantee jobs?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u97	The answer to the first question is yes. There is a higher ambition when it comes to the number of jobs, where sheltered work should rather be seen as a mode that can sometimes be used temporarily for those people who need extra guidance to be able to join a regular employer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u98	In my opinion sheltered work is also really sheltered work and should also take place in a sheltered environment. Previously on SW companies... Or am I wrong?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u99	No, I think sheltered work is an option that you can have to mentor people temporarily or for a long time, because they need it in the setting in which they work. That doesn't always have to be in the social workshop. You can do that in another place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u100	I'm a little confused, too. We now have the deal about 125,000 jobs. It's on. And we have 30,000 sheltered workplaces. Are you saying we add 125,000 and 30,000 together? Or are those 30,000 gonna add up? Are we going to put 30,000 sheltered and 125,000 guarantee jobs together, while they are two very different types of jobs?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u101	In my view, these are similar target groups, which we only approach differently. One goes through employers and the agreements we want to make with them. The other goes through the municipalities. The sum of 125,000 + 30,000 = 155,000 as a new ambition. The ambition is to start talking about this with employers, employees and the VNG.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u102	For the sake of clarity, I believe that the target group of people eligible for sheltered work is a different target group from those eligible for a guarantee job, because in my opinion someone eligible for sheltered work is only able to get to work under sheltered conditions. It's all very technical and complex. Excuse me, Mr. Chairman. But I think it is important that we have this distinction as clearly as possible. The question is whether you, Mr. Renkema, are going to put all these people together now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u103	No, I'm not throwing them in one pile. They are indeed different target groups. The problem is that we allow them to go through different points of contact. In this case, I would very much like to see, if we can make a job agreement on guarantee jobs, we can also add the number of 30,000 sheltered workplaces and we will talk about this with employers, employees and the VNG. Now sheltered work is actually on the sign of the municipalities. And we say: the guarantee jobs are actually on the board of the employers in the market or the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u104	I'm really trying to follow it, Mr. Renkema, but I find it, frankly, quite complicated, especially because of those different target groups. Are you actually saying that a municipality should talk to a company about whether someone who has sheltered work can also be offered a sheltered environment in a company? Is that the purpose of this motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u105	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u106	Gee, I got the motion better than I thought. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u107	Clear. Thank you, Mr Renkema. I call Mr Raemakers of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u108	Thank you, Mr President. I think we have had a good debate on the current law. I also think it is very important that the Secretary of State really gets to work on this new system in the coming year. I would like to stress that today, of course, we have also talked very often about the terms'stick' and 'root', but that stick does not disappear in the new system. He's staying. We're even going to add an extra root: the inclusiveness bonus. I think that's a very good idea. I would actually like to go into that idea further. The Secretary of State hasn't gone into it today. She also explained why she didn't. I understand that, too, but I do hope that it will be taken into account. I don't have any more motions of my own. But it seems to me very good to examine the point of the sheltered workplaces that Mr Renkema has just mentioned and to look at with employers, employees and the VNG whether it is possible to add them. Then it's not about fewer jobs in total. It's all the same. It's about counting this in the job deal. I do have an additional argument for that. If you now offer a sheltered workplace as an employer instead of a regular place, while a sheltered place would actually work better, you are not being rewarded for that as an employer. Of course, you get the compensation you need to help someone get to work, but that's all. I think it would be a good idea to look into whether this might still have positive effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u109	However, one more question to clarify. There is an objective of 30,000 sheltered workplaces, just like 125,000 guarantee jobs. So I don't really see what problem we're solving right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u110	I see in practice that the transition between regular work and sheltered work is simply very difficult. The Secretary of State is already working on a path of simple switching. I also said in my speech: if we could perhaps make it a whole in terms of numbers, so 125,000 + 30,000 = 155,000, and if that could lead to additional jobs, sheltered or regular, I am in favour of them. Cedris, yet the party that knows it, says: that might be a good suggestion. Then I think we should just see if we can do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u111	You came to the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u112	That's it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u113	I call Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u114	Mr. Chairman. This law violates previous agreements. I checked it again. I have here a note from 2014 when the Jobs Agreement was introduced. It states that, on the advice of the Council of State, the government has clarified that, once the quota levy has been activated, it will also remain active. Does the government recognize that this agreement with this law is being violated? I also asked you to respond to the criticism of the Council of State. Mr. Chairman. On my point, if the government wants to pass this law and the fine off the table if necessary, you should at least say: we are going to create a new system. But we're not at all sure if there's going to be a new system and if so, what that new system looks like. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Government intends to postpone and deactivate the quota levy on job appointments;]] [[noting that a bonus-malus system is envisaged instead;]] [[calls on the Government not to abolish the quota levy until a new system has been introduced,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Gijs van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34956-13]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It can be very short. I thank the Secretary of State for answering the questions, also on behalf of the young people of CNV who have now responded through the app. Thanks for the compliments. Also thank you for the passion of all parties for the same purpose. You can look at the same charity very Catholic in different ways. That's to be appreciated, I think. I am looking forward to drawing up motions by Mr Renkema and Mr Raemakers, which I believe are based on removing the difference between the market and the government, if I have understood correctly. That is a little unusual in the context of the debate I had before. I'm just very curious. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u116	Thank you. I'll suspend for five to ten minutes. You heard the bell.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u117	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u118	Thank you, Mr President. I had two further questions due from Mr Jasper van Dijk... I owed him two answers, but I'll wait until he gets there and start the motions. Oh, there's Mr. Jasper van Dijk. I owed him two more answers. With regard to the criticism of the Council of State in 2014, I can say that the legislative proposal that was discussed at the beginning of 2015 adopted a motion that if the quota were to be activated, the possibility of deactivation should also be regulated by law. In any case, this has created a basis for this. The Council of State's criticism of the current legislative proposal was mainly due to the complexity of the system and a variety of proposals for amendments. This is reflected in the two letters of amendment to this bill. The Council of State is actually appealing to the possibility of rethinking. With the intention to come forward with a new proposal in June or before the summer recess, I believe that I respond to the criticism of the Council of State. Then I'll get to the motions. The motion in part No. 10 by Mr Gijs van Dijk to maintain the distinction in the Quotum Act between government and industry, I recommend that the House's previously adopted motion and also because I am involved in the preparation of June. The motion in part No. 11 by Mr Gijs van Dijk and Mr Jasper van Dijk, I think it is a very nice motion, but I am dealing with the system and the Minister for the Interior is really about the organisations. My proposal would be that I should discuss this motion with my colleague from the Interior, with a warm recommendation, from this debate, and that I should let you know before the vote what the verdict on this motion is. Is that okay, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u119	Yes. Can the motion be held, too? You are not providing the motion with any judgment at this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u120	Oh, yes, of course it is. But I intend to vote for... I understand that's how it works.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u121	Yes. I'll take a look at the proposers. It's very faint and formal, but that's the way it has to be. Are you holding the motion? If you know what the Secretary of State or the Minister thinks, you can still put her to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u122	Maybe we'll get into time problems again. The Secretary of State comes before the vote with a letter, with an opinion: either judge Chamber or dissuade. Then we'll put the motion to the vote. Otherwise, it's probably gonna be on the long track.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u123	The Secretary of State can now provide them with dissuade or judgment Chamber and then that will be changed. That's also an option.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u124	With the reservation that I have yet to discuss the motion, I will take it with judgment Chamber. Then I'm going to discuss it with the Minister of the Interior, also because we're working on the administrative agreements. That's what we're asking organisations to do, so I think we should ask ourselves the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u125	Then we wait for the final position.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u126	Yes. The motion in part No. I find 12 of Mr Renkema and Mr Raemakers a difficult one. It might be a little quick to go through that now with great strides and put this down. I know this calls for an investigation, but I also saw from the debates with the Members of Parliament that there is quite a whole world behind this. As Mr Gijs van Dijk pointed out, the job deal is about regular jobs. They're employers' jobs, so they're employers' targets. Covered work is about another target group. I'll give you an indication. That's a right you can go to the city. The municipality also has those targets. I very much agree that the transition needs to be improved: better can be done, but above all better. That is also the whole process of thinking behind the project Simple switching. My fear is that the job agreement should be watered down or that it should fall into the specific needs of the people covered by the target group of sheltered work. What I can point out is that the theme of this transition is explicitly involved in the elaboration of the broad offensive, because a motion has also been adopted, and I do not know exactly who the proposers were, which deals with the extension of the target group of sheltered work. I think it was Mr Gijs van Dijk who tabled the motion with others. I therefore hesitate to do so, because I think that both target groups are really different and also put the targets in other places, whether it makes sense to do those investigations, and I therefore advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u127	The motion in part No. 12 is not recommended. Then the motion to part No. 13.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u128	Then the motion to part No. 13. I'm giving performance to an accepted chamber motion. It's contrary to what's written here, and so I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u129	The motion in part No. 13 is not recommended. This brings you to the end of the debate on the motions. I'm just gonna take a look at the members. Have all the questions been answered? That's the case. Then we have come to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-15-tweedekamer-10.u130	The motions will be put to the vote next Tuesday. I thank the Secretary of State for coming to the Chamber and I close the meeting.
