ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-30.u1	The next item is the VAO Agriculture and Fisheries Council with the first speaker, Mrs Ouwehand, from the Party for Animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-30.u2	Thank you, Mr President. It's a very serious matter. It's about informing the Chamber and protecting bees and bumblebees. The Chamber has been clear since the beginning of 2013: pesticides that could be dangerous to bees need to be tested more closely and as long as they are not clearly established as not endangering bees' health, they must be removed from the market. That ruling has never been withdrawn by the Chamber since the beginning of 2013. Several motions have been passed on this issue. The cabinet has, because the Chamber has made that ruling and the current assessment system does not take sufficient account of the risks of pesticides for bees and bumblebees, promised at various times to commit itself to a stricter review. Secretary of State Van Dam said that the draft review framework now before us must be established as soon as possible. At the end of 2018 it turned out that this could be different and since then the Party for Animals has in the meantime tried to clarify two written consultations and two general consultations. The conclusion is that the Chamber has been misinformed, that the Cabinet has actively opposed that stricter review in contradiction with its own promise and with statements by the Chamber. The Minister for Agriculture refuses to acknowledge that the Chamber has been misinformed and incompletely informed, so there is nothing else to say but confidence. That's why I'm filing a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that following repeated criticism that the European assessment system for the authorisation of chemical pesticides lags behind relevant scientific insights on the risks to bees, the Court has, from the beginning of 2013, ruled in a majority that all neonicotinoids and fipronil should remain on the market until it has been proven beyond doubt that these substances do not have a harmful effect on bees' health;]] [[noting that the Cabinet repeatedly told the Chamber that it insisted in Europe on establishing a new review framework, namely the (concept) bee guideline presented in 2013;]] [[Considering that, contrary to Parliament's statements and its own promises, the government actively opposed, in European Council working groups and in e-mails to the European Commission, the new review framework for a better assessment of the risks of pesticides to bees and bumblebees;]] [[noting that the government has instead proposed a model co-developed and advocated by the chemical industry;]] [[noting that statements in the Chamber have been ignored and that the Chamber has been misinformed and incomplete, but that the Minister of LNV maintains that nothing inaudible has happened;]] [[declares confidence in the Minister of LNV,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-11501-32-1183]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-30.u3	Thank you, Mr President. In the direction of the Minister, I would like to say once again that the way this has gone down does not deserve the beauty prize. The House should immediately debate a question of confidence, so that it is out of the question. Now it got late Thursday night, which made the Minister aware the whole Whitsun weekend that this motion was coming and that's not how we...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-30.u4	Mrs. Ouwehand, I've been very accommodating with time. Your time has been a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-30.u5	I'd like to hand this over to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-30.u6	I think your point is clear, so I would like to ask you if I may give the floor to Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-30.u7	I would ask you to include this in the Bureau, because that is not the way we should be dealing with the cabinet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-30.u8	Then Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-30.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. When you read the articles in Follow the Money about the Bee Guidance case, you don't get a very nice picture. Then there is an image of a Netherlands that goes outwards, including to the Chamber, states that the principles of the Bee Guidance, based on scientific insights, are to be endorsed and to be introduced as soon as possible, but where the interests of the chemical industry are to be defended in a variety of ways, for example by lobbying for alternative calculation models. For the Chamber, those kinds of processes are actually invisible. What the Minister speaks of is that when we ask for all the information that is then sent to the Chamber. With regard to the Bee Guidance, she now states that the Netherlands has not yet taken an official position, as there is no final final proposal from the Commission. That is, of course, the case, but on the other hand we know that such a final proposal comes from the Commission on the basis of all official and preparatory consultations, which we have yet to see. That's how you're both in some kind of catch 22. That process is invisible to us, and if we are told that the administrative branch or the public lobby is different from the official one, it is simply harmful. Mr. Chairman. We do not draw the heavy conclusion that the Party for Animals draws in this regard. We would like to say that we are displeased with this course of action.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-30.u10	Thank you. Mr von Martels has the floor. He does not use his speaking time. The same applies to Mr De Groot. Finally, Mrs Bromet van GroenLinks has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-30.u11	Mr. Chairman. I can largely endorse my colleague from the SP's speech. The bees are extremely important for GroenLinks. We really want to see an end to the use of pesticides. We are sticking to this account of the Party for Animals, and all the pieces that go with it are an incredible pile of paper with complicated formulations. We hope that the Minister will keep the commitment that would have always been there. But GroenLinks is very cautious about filing and supporting motions of mistrust. We will only do that if we no longer trust the ruler, and that is not the case in this case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-30.u12	Mrs Bromet, Mrs Ouwehand would like to ask you another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-30.u13	What commitment is GroenLinks holding on to? We've seen two bets. There was a cabinet that said: we are in favour of establishing a new review framework. But behind the scenes, in those Council working groups and in letters to the European Commission, there was another commitment. So how can GroenLinks determine what bet it is? I would like to know what commitment GroenLinks then holds.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-30.u14	GroenLinks has an opinion on pesticides. We'll bring it in here. We always hope that there will be a majority in favour of this. There is a difference between the content of various cabinets and the procedure. We still have good hope that this minister will be able to go further than previous ministers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-30.u15	Mrs. Ouwehand, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-30.u16	One final question, Mr. Chairman. I said to the Minister in the various debates, especially in the last debate on Thursday evening, that it did not begin among you. Her predecessors said one thing, and then the other happened. If the Minister simply admits that this is not good and that you must inform the Chamber correctly and fully, then the cold is out of the blue and then there is no need for a motion of censure. But the Minister doesn't acknowledge that. Does GroenLinks not recognise that there have been two faces, namely, on the one hand, what the cabinet preached to the Chamber, and, on the other hand, what really happened in those Council meetings and in emails to the European Commission?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-30.u17	What Mrs Ouwehand blames the Minister has been done by her predecessors. I know she's responsible for that, but she's sent more documents to the Chamber than ever. We've been able to see everything. To be honest, I believe the Party for Animals has a point. So I don't want to deny that things have happened that may be unhappy. It's just that we're making a different conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-30.u18	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-30.u19	Thank you, Mrs Bromet. I think this is a clear answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-30.u20	I would like to make one more point, Mr President. It happened under the predecessors of this minister, but this minister did not send the information either...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-30.u21	Mrs. Ouwehand...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-30.u22	...when we asked for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-30.u23	Mrs Ouwehand, you have made your point. Mrs Bromet has given you a proper answer. I'm just gonna take a look at the members. Everyone has had speaking time. I'm looking at the minister. Do I have to suspend for a few moments? Does the Minister still want to respond to this? You don't have to; it's open to you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-30.u24	Mr. Chairman. I have no opinion of this motion. It is up to your Chamber to judge that. At the same time, I say that I have nothing to add to what I said in the debate. We discussed this in detail there. This was also about the questions which Mrs Ouwehand is raising again. I have nothing to add to the answers I have given in general consultation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-06-11-tweedekamer-30.u25	Clear. Thank you. A motion of censure has just been tabled by Mrs Ouwehand. That means we are going to vote on it right away.
