ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-5.u1	Finally, we will address Mrs Laan-Geselschap's question on behalf of the VVD to the Minister of Health, Welfare and Sport, about a woman with home care from Hoensbroek who was dead in the house for a week. That's intense. Mrs. Laan-Geselschap.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-5.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's a very sad message. A resident of the municipality of Heerlen spent a week dead in the house at the end of August. In the newspaper it says that in that period a healthcare professional would visit her three times, but that this did not happen because of the holiday of the care staff. Mr. Chairman. I do not wish to comment specifically on this situation in this Question Time, out of respect for the next of kin, as the GGD is still working on the investigation, but our questions are clearly related to this. Of course, I fully understand the need for a holiday for all employees in the healthcare sector. They deserve a vacation, also because of the hard work. But if care is needed, can people also assume that they get that care, even if the staff are on holiday? You can't skip care at all. It's not like not going to the gym once. This care is one of the primary necessities of vulnerable people in our society. That is why it is so important that they should be able to assume that they are being looked at. I therefore ask the Minister whether it might be necessary to agree on a safety net in holiday periods, perhaps a digital safety net. Is it possible, for example, that the needy may have contact via WhatsApp or via a call round? How does the Minister feel about this? In general terms, our question is: what is the quality of care in this country if people who are in care and dependent on that care are called upon during holiday periods?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-5.u3	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-5.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for the question, which I understand. I also saw the message coming through at the end of last week. As is often the case with such messages, you will of course go after them. Even though Mrs Laan rightly says that out of respect not everything can be told from such an individual case, I think it is important to share what is public, and what is also shared with the city council of Heerlen, also in order to correct an image that is not entirely correct. The picture exists that there was concern here, but in this case it was about guidance and household support from the Wmo. The article says it would be three times a week, but it is once a week. There is no question that care would have been missed there, or that a health care provider did not show up. The care and support from the Wmo came on Wednesdays. The lady died on Friday and the paramedic reported that something was not right here on that Wednesday. After that, they found her, too. The suggestion that the aid worker was on holiday, fortunately, turns out to be wrong. It's about two aid workers: one who was a supporter from the Wmo and one who came to do the domestic support. They both come on Wednesdays. After the death of the lady, a calamity investigation was also carried out. That investigation has been completed. This was done on the basis of the policy of the municipality of Heerlen, just as part of the Wmo monitoring. That emergency investigation has not shown that there would have been negligence or that there is a relationship with the care. Well, those research findings were also discussed with the city council, and I think that's a good thing. This is without prejudice to my understanding that Mrs Laan is calling for attention to be paid to the holiday period, because that is indeed a period in which there are some concerns about continuity. Where on the one hand you want to grant the caregivers to take a holiday in the most popular holiday periods, as an employer you also have to take care of the continuity of care. That is why we often talk about this with ActiZ, the employers' organisation in the care of the elderly. You can also see that the intensity of attention is increasing very much. Numerous good examples are shared in this respect. New ideas are always being made up to see if you can get those schedules filled properly during the holiday period. I think that's really good. Creating a generic safety net seems difficult to me. But of course employers simply have a responsibility to ensure that during holidays the schedules are simply filled.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-5.u5	Sounds like the Minister has extra facts. But the questions of the VVD remain equally relevant as far as we are concerned, despite the content of this case. The central question is how we monitor the quality of care, something I think we discussed last week. That is where we concluded that we will be discussing this more often in the coming period. The quality of care provided by the providers is also organised through the municipalities. We talked about that last week. Should there perhaps not be more control from the Empire in these matters, including the quality of care? That is something we would like to draw attention to in the near future. In this way, we want to make it clear to the Minister that we want to take a more critical look at central quality questions, which apply throughout the country, than has been the case so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-5.u6	Two elements. Sure, it's a really complicated job to organize those holidays, especially when it comes to home care, both on the district nursing side and on the side of domestic support. One is often a little more vulnerable when it skips a day than the other. Nevertheless, this care must be guaranteed, because you have a contract with the provider as a municipality or as an insurer. Fortunately, I see that the employers' organisation takes a firm role there to ensure that you come up with good examples and disseminate them. I really think that's a good thing. When it comes to WMO surveillance, I think this shows that the emergency monitoring has simply worked well here. There was a calamity, as a result of which the person who came by for the guidance and for the support was ringing the bell: something is not right here, ma'am does not open and I should be caring today. This calamity has then been investigated, which has led to the result that there has been no negligence in the care. That is the responsibility of the city council. So the way it should work in the supervision of municipal organised care has worked well here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-5.u7	Thank you very much, Mrs Laan-Geselschap. Mrs. Agema, on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-5.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to convey my condolences to this lady's family and relatives. I would also like to express my annoyance towards the VVD. I find the unbelievable hypocrisy I have just heard here. The VVD has only been concerned with the breakdown of care, the closure of nursing homes, the halving of domestic help and the shortening of community care. And then this is the result, Mrs Laan-Selschap. I would like to ask the Minister whether he should not even come up with anything other than action plans. Should he not even come up with concrete plans to prevent care from slipping further and further, for example by introducing a holiday bonus? Make something up, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-5.u9	Two things. One, when it comes to the sad death of this lady, you can no longer say about the backgrounds and the facts, but that has nothing to do with many assumptions. You get it sometimes. That has been the case in this case. The alderman, the college, has taken responsibility for this to the city council. I think we should leave it at that. Two, we do an incredible amount to make care at home better, to strengthen living and care, to strengthen the capacity of nursing homes, and to strengthen the quality of nursing home care. We are indeed doing so with many approaches, because when we see and hear concerns from the field, we feel that we have to deal with these concerns. So when we hear the care "do we get our vacancies filled?', Then we have an approach working in care. When we hear concerns about administrative burdens, we do indeed have an approach to reduce these administrative burdens. When we hear about fraud in the care sector, we have an approach to reduce this fraud in the care sector. When we hear concerns about the quality of nursing home care, we have an approach to improve the quality of nursing home care. That is how I attach myself to doing my job, because I think it is a task of politics to hear those concerns and to work together with those who are first responsible and first involved to address those concerns. That's how I do my job.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-5.u10	He's just not going in there!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-5.u11	No, no, no. I'll see if the Minister has answered all the questions. Yeah? Mr Renkema on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-5.u12	It's certainly a very sad situation. The Minister rightly calls this a calamity. Now I have looked at how many home care and nursing care calamities occur in the Netherlands. There were 380 in 2017 and 435 in 2018. I'm holding my heart for what it's going to be in 2019. What does the Minister think of this increase? What does he think of this trend? And in addition, is he willing to have the inspection conducted, not so much a case study but the trend of more and more calamities in home care?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-5.u13	Concrete question, concrete answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-5.u14	I think it is good to see these calamities in the context of ever better supervision. Mrs Laan rightly pointed out that the municipalities had not been monitoring that part of the WMO care, so that part of the supervision deserved improvement, deserved more attention. As a matter of fact, you get more calamities in the picture. That's right, because that's where the learning effect of supervision can do its job. Two, hundreds of thousands of people get care at home, apart from all institutional care. Hundreds of thousands get care every day at home. If I then relate the numbers of calamities to that, I do not find that, on its own, shocking. But let me take your question in another way under my arm to the inspection, namely that I ask: are the number of calamities and the increase in the number of calamities leading to additional research? Let me take your question that way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-5.u15	We hear from the Minister that the facts are a bit different, but without specifically addressing this case: if someone is dead in the house for a week, you could assume that the person may have a less social network. Otherwise, it would probably have been thought of sooner. There was hustle and bustle in the summer period. Soon the flu wave will come again. The Minister says that these care institutions should be in order. We can say that, but we know that this is often not possible because of staff shortages. Shouldn't you then ensure that people without or with a very small social network never run out of care?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-5.u16	That was also a bit of Mrs Agema's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-5.u17	The core is: yes, of course. I think you should say that despite the staff shortages, it is very often possible. This is in line with the responsibility of healthcare providers to ensure that they can actually deliver the care they have agreed on with those who pay for it and those who receive it, and that they do not make agreements that they will not deliver on afterwards. That's one. Two is that we need all the creativity to make sure you actually get those holiday schedules filled. I can see that creativity. You are absolutely right: another Christmas vacation is coming and the flu wave is coming again. Those are very difficult times in terms of schedule. The fact that people are doing everything they can to ensure that they can do so makes sense, makes real sense. I am very much in favour of this getting the full attention that it deserves. We talk about this regularly with the employers' organisation. They talk about this regularly with their members and will also pay attention to it in the newsletter. A labour market table has also been set up, where the filling of holiday schedules and any creative ideas can be passed, is on the agenda. I think this is the way it should be.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-5.u18	Mrs Agema also had a question about working on holiday. She had not received an answer. It was a bonus. She can't ask a question anymore, but that's no reason to...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-5.u19	A bonus to keep working on the holiday?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-5.u20	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-5.u21	That seems to me to be an extremely useful and creative idea. Of course, the employers' organisation regularly sits down with its members to discuss all such ideas. I can imagine that this idea could be discussed in the framework of collective bargaining, for example. But let me simply take Mrs Agema's suggestion to the employers' organisation to discuss it with unions and with employees. That sounds good to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-5.u22	And it's coming back to the room?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-5.u23	I'm fine. I'm fine. I'm fine. Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-01-tweedekamer-5.u24	Fine. Then Mrs. Agema is also satisfied. Thank you. That also brings us to the end of oral Question Time. I shall suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. Then we'll vote.
