ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the debate on the bill 35074, Amendment of Book 7 of the Civil Code, the Law allocation labour force by intermediaries, the Social Insurance Finance Act and any other laws to improve the balance between fixed and flexible employment contracts, i.e. the Labour Market Act in balance. I would like to welcome the Minister for Social Affairs and Employment to the First Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u2	I give the floor to Mr Ester.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u3	Mr. Chairman. Everything that is flexible in the economy is more expensive. That goes for flying, that goes for hotels, and that goes for subscriptions. Labour is the big exception. Flexible work is cheap and is accompanied by poor working conditions and a less thriving future perspective. It may be that our country is getting off the ground economically if we look at the growth rates, the sharp fall in unemployment and investment, the number of Dutch people with flexible contracts is greater than ever. The Netherlands, with 2 million flexible workers in Europe, is even the frontrunner. The effects of this are socially unequally distributed. Especially low-educated Dutch people are the victims. In 2003, a quarter of the low-skilled workers had a flexible contract, either as an employee or as an employee, now that is almost half. These figures are considerably lower among highly educated people. And we know that the chances of unemployment and poverty among workers with a flexible contract are higher, that their protection against dismissal is less and that their participation in training is lagging behind. Their confidence in the future, according to research, is significantly less significant. This picture shows a new division in the labour market: low-skilled people with flexible employment contracts versus highly skilled people with fixed jobs; a division between outsiders and insiders. In addition, workers with flexible employment contracts not only have poorer positions on the labour market, but also wear the red lanterns on the labour market and have poor pension levels. We see, in short, a compaction of backwardness. This is particularly affecting the current generation of young people, who, like no other, are affected by the flexibility of the labour market. With this labour market bill in balance, the Cabinet recognises the harmful effects of the explosively increased flexibilisation of labour, and the Christian Union Group welcomes this. It is good that this bill makes flexible work more expensive and hard work cheaper. That is a right step to put a stop to this threatening division. Still, there are concerns. The key question is whether the policy will not be too late. Flexible labour is now so embedded in our economic system that the question is whether the tide can still be reversed. The rapid emergence of the platform economy will only increase the flexible shell. I would like to present to the Minister whether corrective policy can still offer any relief at all. Can the flexibilisation clamper still be slowed down and its course can still be changed? Mr. Chairman. This is the first major legislative proposal of this cabinet and of this minister in the field of the labour market. Unfortunately, there is no comprehensive policy vision and approach. And that's vengeful. For example, bold policies for the large and steadily growing group ofzzp'ers are lacking, a growth that shows signs of a silent revolution in the labour market. We can make flexible contract forms less attractive to employers, not decouple policies to managezzp developments, even if it was just to prevent waterbed effects between the two groups. The Council of State also expressed this concern. We have little interest in the fact that, as a result of making flexible employment contracts more expensive, employers resort to the outsourcing of staff through zzp-shadow structures. Lower-skilled, vulnerable workers will then suffer to an increased extent from well-targeted separate labour market measures. The Christian Union Group needs a strong reflection of the Minister on this question: how does he intend to avoid this kind of waterbed effects through his new labour market law? How do we prevent the rain from getting in the drip? For years, my group has been asking for targeted policies for the expanding group ofzzp'ers, and the Social Affairs Committee of this House regularly asked this and the previous cabinet to measure up on this urgent dossier. The Minister is now relying on European legislation which makes working with minimum rates forzzp's, as agreed in the government agreement, difficult. But that cannot in itself be a reason to abandon further policies, not to think any further. I am thinking of provisions to protectzzp'ers from disability: 1 million poorly insuredzzp'ers is a social fear dream. I am thinking of good retirement provision; I am thinking of training in core competences. My group would like to see more urgency here, more drive for action. It's all taking too long. Thezzp'er is entitled to clarity. I'd like a reaction to that. The context of this bill is certainly not flawless. The evaluation of the predecessor of this law, the Work and Security Act, is not yet under way. Much of the thinking about the future of the labour market has been allocated to the Borstlap Commission, which reports at the end of this year. The temporary work regime is to be evaluated separately and, we understand, a separate course is also foreseen for the training and development of workers. What is the connection of things here? How does the minister tie up all these ends and take control? Can we properly assess this bill without the evaluation of the current WWZ, without a clear picture of the future of the Dutch labour market and without any training plans? Fragmentation of labour market policies is imminent. How does the Minister determine his own position here, my group asks. Is there any chance that the proposals that have now been put forward in the legislative proposal might be called into question again by some of these pathways? The measures announced in this legislative proposal are intended to make fixed contracts more attractive by offering firmer prices for flexible work and reducing risk differences between contract forms. The Minister does this by turning a number of buttons: the chain clause is stretched from two to three years, the position of call forces is strengthened, competition is addressed through working conditions in payrolling, the cumulation ground is introduced into the dismissal law, the transition fee is reduced and goes into earlier and WW premium differentiation takes place according to contract form. In combination, these measures should improve the balance between flex and fixed, both from the employer's point of view and from the employee's point of view. This search for a new balance wholeheartedly supports the Christian Union Group. Nevertheless, we have asked a large number of questions about these measures in the written preparation. We are grateful for the answer. In this contribution I focus on a number of priority issues. This bill gives a spin to the chain clause as it currently applies in the WWZ: a fixed contract after three years instead of after two years. According to the Minister, the current provision does not meet the requirements of contract flexibility of employers. I am not aware of any study showing that the extension of this maximum period will lead to more fixed contracts. Here too, the evaluation of the WWZ has not yet been completed, not even on this point. It is precisely because this empirical evidence is lacking that my group needs a supporting argument that shows why this revision was chosen. What is the sense of urgency to update the policy actually based on? Why will this third year be decisive? Most employers are perfectly able to consider after two years whether a temporary employee is eligible for a permanent contract. My group needs more factual justification. To refer to, I quote,'social signals' is certainly not enough to convince my group. This is where the Minister really needs to do his best. Mr. Chairman. The Minister strengthens policy on call forces and provides them with greater security and protection. My group also supports this commitment. Many call forces now need to be unnecessarily permanently available within a context of long-term income uncertainty. In dealing with this bill in the Lower House, but also beyond, much attention has been paid to the position of temporary invaders in primary education and special education and to the role of call forces in the agricultural sector in the new chain clause. Can the Minister state the status of the exemption clause agreed for education? How will this provision be worked out? Through the amended amendment Stoffer c.s. (35074, No. 61) and the Wiersma/Heerma motion (35074, No. 46) are on the agenda for the implementation of the legislative proposal, specifically on seasonal work, for example with regard to the annual hourly standard and the WW premium differentiation. This is a sector which has its own dynamics and personal circumstances in the field of temporary work. Consultation with the sector has been announced. Can the Minister brief us on how this consultation is going and whether there is a consensus? The Christian Union Group insists that the effects of the legislative proposal on our agricultural holdings are seriously part of the legislative review. Can that be promised? The introduction of the cumulation ground into dismissal law is a long-cherished wish of employers. The OECD has pointed out that Dutch dismissal law is relatively strict. The Court of Justice and the Council of State agree with the proposal. Nevertheless, the Christian Union Group raises questions. Can the Minister better justify that this cumulation ground derives directly from the experience with the current WWZ? After all, the vast majority of dismissal cases are already being dealt with. Will this new practice not lead to a substantial increase in the number of court cases within an already overburdened legal system? What will be the impact on vulnerable groups of workers? Is it still the case that dismissal on the basis of the cumulation ground can only be met in exceptional cases and that these are serious matters? How do we prevent, as my group asks, dismissal on the basis of this i-ground from becoming a new practice? The transition fee is somewhat reduced in the legislative proposal, but is not the same as it is now, regardless of the duration and nature of the contract of employment. The increase in the transition fee after 10 years is abolished. Is the latter wise now? The re-entry rate of older unemployed remains low in this boom. They, in particular, need an extra incentive and protection. How does this measure fit into the philosophy of the bill? Is the austerity of the transition fee for older workers not just the one from which the additional costs are paid to pay the compensation for all employees from day one of their temporary or permanent employment contracts? The extension of the maximum probation period to five months has been lost in the Lower House. Does this mean that the Minister will refrain from reviewing probation policy during this period of office? Mr. Chairman. Payrolling is not the Christian Union's favorite topic of conversation. The good guys not too well-spoken let me put a line on that. We continue to have difficulty with the question of exactly how payrolling fits in with the Rhineland-Palatinate business model. We feel more at home with the concept of a company that takes full responsibility for its own staff and sees its employees as human capital, as people who deserve all the care of the employer himself. This is also part of entrepreneurship. We cannot accept payrolling being used to compete on terms of employment. Apart from this more fundamental look, we fear that the introduction of this law will create waterbed effects with thezzp sector or perhaps even more with the broadcasting sector. I've already indicated that a little bit. Isn't it obvious that employers who now put their cards on payrolling will soon resort to, for example,zzp-turn door constructions as a result of increasing the cost of this type of service? That's not what we want. Then what did we get out of it on balance? I'd like an answer from the Minister. To this I would like to ask whether the Minister has also considered including SME back office services, small local temporary agency companies, under the temporary agency and not under the payroll definition. What were the considerations of not doing this? Let me stress once again that my group is pleased that the Minister gives payroll workers the right to an adequate pension scheme. That is additional protection for this vulnerable group, but the scheme itself looks rather complex. We are afraid of implementation problems. Should the Minister not take more time to manage this together with the social partners? I'd like to get a reaction to that. Linking the amount of the WW premium to the form of the contract is something my group finds creative. The commitment is that by raising a lower premium for fixed contracts and a higher premium for flexible contracts, the offer of fixed contracts to employers becomes more attractive. The question is whether a difference of around 5% can be decisive. What are the Minister's expectations in this respect for the SME sector? Is this a tipping point for small employers? Will the Minister also monitor the effect? The question of how this new policy will turn out for seasonal sectors is also important. After all, there is a lot of work there with call forces. I assume they are already paying a higher WW premium by a majority. Mr. Chairman. It is good that the legislative proposal is trying to increase the job security of workers, but the Christian Union Group lacks the opportunity to increase job security. The best protection of workers and the greatest security in the labour market is provided by ensuring their core competences, tough and soft skills that enable workers to cope with competition and strengthen their position. It protects them in bad times. This applies to higher-skilled workers, but it also applies to lower-skilled workers. This requires personal development and training pathways that extend over the course of life. I understand that the Minister will come up with proposals at a later date to ensure that the core competences of our workforce are maintained, but I would like to hear what the concrete plans are and how the underlying philosophy is going to relate to the thinking of this bill. The minister has to play chess on many plates at the same time. That takes agility. Has he assured himself that all the measures in the bill are EU proof? How does European regulation on the internal market and European labour migration relate to its new policy ideas? Fortunately, the national playing field is easy to see. Employers' interests and employees' interests are reasonably balanced in the legislative proposal. This is perhaps best demonstrated by the reactions of employers and employees themselves to the proposal. There is even an almost perfect reflection. Employers are in favour of broadening the chain determination, reducing the transition fee and introducing the cumulation ground. Workers are opposed to this, but are again in favour of premium differentiation, the measures concerning payrolling and call forces and the introduction of the transition fee from day one, which employers again have difficulty with. Sometimes the polder is wonderfully transparent. But the question remains whether the labour market will be better balanced by this bill. The reactions of the social partners are already positive. Whether that is the weakness or strength of this bill will have to be demonstrated in the debate with the Chamber and the Minister today. Mr President, I will conclude. The bill takes good steps to mitigate the negative effects of skipped flexibilisation. The direction can be defended. Unfortunately, not all steps are equally well-founded. That's still a bit of a piece of cake. This certainly applies to possible waterbed effects, which are certainly not imaginary. This is where the Christian Union Group really needs to be given more perspective. There are major concerns to be addressed here. I would also like to give this signal clearly. We look forward to answering our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u4	Stand still, Mr. Ester. Mrs. Sent would like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u5	I have listened to Mr Ester's speech with a great deal of support. He highlights important problems such as the premature nature of the bill before the evaluation of the WWZ is known and the potential waterbed effects. The polder is very clear. It is already clear that the bill does not address sharing of the polder: the position of zzp'ers, the phony call forces, boguszzp'ers. Those are exactly the points that Mr Ester rightly raises, so I am very curious to see how he assesses the desirability of this proposal in the light of these undesirable side effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u6	That's what my whole argument was about, so I'm not gonna repeat myself. I would just like to emphasise that I am very curious to know what the Minister's underlying story is on these very important points that my group has raised. I can see from your questions that you can think of something to do with that. We must be convinced on all these points. We would like to get comfort and solace on these points. That is exactly what I challenge the Minister to do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u7	I'm very curious what will offer you comfort. What gives me comfort is if the Labour Market Act actually balances the labour market. He's not doing that right now. Does the Christian Union Group consider it desirable to keep the legislative proposal until measures are taken in the areas ofzzp, contracting and so on?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u8	I repeat my commitment once again. We have very critical questions on these points. I'm curious to hear the Minister's answers. If we do, we will take stock of the situation and answer the question of whether this law will balance the labour market itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ester. I give the floor to Mrs Sent.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. More and more certainty: that was the use of the post-war welfare state. Fixed employment contracts offered firmness and stability to workers and employers. Employers, employees and government together created a social security system that compensated for unemployment, disability and old age. Since the 1990s, this security has gradually declined. Due to constant changes, the welfare state offers less and less security, according to the Scientific Council for Government Policy in its exploration entitled For Security. Uncertainty characterizes the Dutch labour market: The Netherlands has one of the most flexible labour markets in North-West Europe. For example, according to Eurostat statistics, we have relatively more self-employed or self-employed persons than Ireland and the United Kingdom and we are just below Italy, Greece and Portugal, countries with a large informal economy. The proportion of temporary workers in our country is also much higher than the EU average. After Spain and Portugal, the Netherlands has the highest proportion of employees on temporary contracts and this share has increased most in the last decade. Is the Minister satisfied with the role of the government as an employer in this? Does it set a good example when it comes to providing permanent jobs to workers? People want to be sure of permanent work with a decent salary. Good work is the basis for a good life. It's your income and your future. It's fitting in and having fun with your colleagues. Good work with a fixed salary is therefore very important. That's exactly where the problem is. A lot of people can't count on a steady job. They're hopping from job to job, from zero-hour contract to forced independence. This offers no perspective on a certain income. Besides, you're not building up a pension for later. Mr. Chairman. The Dutch economy performs tremendously well, but wages do not increase according to their performance. The distribution of wealth has become increasingly unfair. Of each euro earned, only €0.73 goes to the employee and with the remaining €0.27 the shareholder is fêted. By comparison, the labour income ratio was 40 years ago above 90. Large companies, multinationals and shareholders make more profits, but pay less and less taxes. The workload and burdens of the hardworking Dutchman are increasing. Iraida Donk is such a hardworking Dutchman. As a ground stewardess, she got more and more responsibilities, but she didn't share in the success of the winnings. She opened her mouth, but many colleagues didn't dare. They have uncertain work with, for example, a zero-hour contract and are afraid that they will not be called up anymore. They're afraid they'll lose their jobs if they stand up for themselves. Or take package type Janusz Cwikla. In recent years, the number of packages he has to process has multiplied, but unfortunately his working conditions have not. He worked through a temporary agency and had to leave regularly for six months to return to service. And Cor van Uden was until recently a fast, self-employed and skilled joiner. As a self-employed person, he had less responsibility and fewer risks. He felt free until he fell off the roof and became paralyzed, because construction workers, carpenters or sturders of 60 years of age or older cannot insure himself. They are too expensive, too risky, according to the insurers. As a result, Cor saw his savings go up on forced renovations to his home. In short, the labour market is out of balance. In addition, flexibility is also unevenly distributed. If you're young, low-educated, female, or if you have a migration background, you're more likely to have a flexible contract. In particular, Dutch people with a migration background experience discrimination in the labour market. But even when you are older and enter the labour market, you often get a flexible contract. Moreover, flexible contracts are increasingly common in people over 24 years of age. For example, last week CBS published a study showing that the milestones for twenty-somethings are moving forward. In 2018, half of the 27-year-olds had a permanent employment relationship. Ten years earlier, half the 24-year-olds had permanent jobs. Where flexible work can be a good solution to certain situations, it is designed as a structural implementation of what is supposed to be normal permanent jobs. This creates precarious jobs that pay less and where less investment is made. It's great that Iraida, Janusz and Cor are fighting for better working conditions, but they're fighting unfairly. They need support from the trade unions and politicians not to be alone. We, too, as PvdA, stand up for them. According to the OECD, the flexibility of the Dutch labour market has gone through. The growth of the number ofzzp'ers and temporary workers is reducing wage growth, according to the OECD. That is a point that De Nederlandsche Bank has also made. The competition ofzzp's makes it easier for employees to get a wage increase, according to the OECD. The increase in wages in the Netherlands is lagging behind productivity growth, the organisation notes. The OECD, based in Paris, also believes that flextrend puts pressure on the quality of jobs, because manyzzp'ers are not insured against illness or disability. Therefore, the Cabinet should introduce a minimum coverage for sickness and disability for all workers. Moreover, tax advantages forzzp'ers should be reduced. Mr. Chairman. Against this background, my group has eagerly looked forward to the law that would restore the much-needed balance on the labour market. But does this law address the tax benefits forzzp'ers? Does it provide a minimum level of cover for illness and disability? Do clients receive post-tax or fines if it turns out that thezzp worker was working as an employed person after all? None of that! Therefore, the experts and the representatives of the social partners who informed us at the expert meeting almost unanimously broke down the proposal before us. Unfamiliar, unclear and disappointing: that was their judgment. Some of the points they have raised come back to me in the follow-up to my speech. Because the present Labour Market Act is in balance from the announced vision of the established Borstlap commission on the position ofzzp'ers, there is a risk that employers will make greater use ofzzp-structures. After all, the opportunities for zzp escape are becoming more attractive. The Council of State therefore talks about the waterbed effect. I can't put it more clearly than the section's advice. I quote: 'The relief that a measure can give easily leads to new bottlenecks elsewhere in the labour market. Similarly, the new rights granted to workers in a weaker position, without a broader and more fundamental approach, will in many cases not lead to a truly stronger position for these workers." The department finds support in Professor Verhulp, who writes: "[I]n the WAB only shreds are arranged, and sometimes those shreds settle something that is no longer a problem and sometimes it regulates a part of the problem without dealing with it in conjunction with it and that is not enough." The present legislative proposal could lead to more cross-border posting. After all, in this way, workers will be covered by the Detaching Directive, which will be more advantageous for the employer than payrolling. Professor Laagland of Radboud University also predicts the introduction of a new concept: the "emergency worker." Indeed, given the very different employment regimes applicable to broadcasting and payrolling, it is highly likely that payroll organisations will try to shape the agreement as a broadcasting agreement. This morning we were able to read in the newspaper how that can happen. This is confirmed by a director of payroll who writes to me "the lord" Sent, as a variation on "ma'am" Ester "through this bill, payroll will disappear." In this context, it is interesting that it is prohibited in both Belgium and Germany to make workers permanently available to a third party. Is this what the Minister has in mind, my group wonders? Mr. Chairman. Honesty also commands me to say that many consider the present intention to restore the balance on the labour market premature, as Mr Ester has already mentioned. After all, the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment has just issued a comprehensive review of the Work and Security Act (WWZ). Professor Roozendaal of the Vrije Universiteit states that the results of this research will be delayed for at least six months. As a result, we cannot at all conclude that parts of that law, such as the tightening up of the chain regime and the closed system of dismissal grounds, are not working or are not working properly. And Professor Laagland points out that the labour market is not in any way conducive to the constant introduction of new rules on the part of companies and employees, which also require clarification through case law. On this point, I would like to focus specifically on the protection of dismissals and the definition of the chain. With regard to the protection of dismissal, Sjef de Lat, a judge at the Utrecht Court and the canton court, points out that the coalition agreement and its intention to adapt the WWZ are based on partially outdated principles. After all, the Supreme Court has made a number of important statements. In the meantime, we can also see that the judiciary has cast off its original weakness, and that more and more cases have been successful. Professor Verhulp also notes that the introduction of a cumulation ground has no scientific basis or necessity. For example, in its decision of 18 February 2018, the Hoge Raad developed a good workable methodology which allows the employer to comply without much difficulty with the evidence assignment of the reasonable ground. The WWZ means a large reduction in the number of cases, which was the intention and a huge profit in terms of taxation of the judiciary. Lawyer Emile Cornel has calculated that in 0.0054% of all redundancies a year in the Netherlands an employer actually runs into wanting to get rid of an employee because of dysfunction and that it does not succeed; 0.0054%. Knowing this, can the Minister convince my group of the need for the cumulation ground? Is the SAB an improvement? Not according to mr. De Lat, for in his estimation the cumulation ground becomes the main reason for dismissal by the employer. In doing so, the WAB opens up the right of dismissal almost as much as for the WWZ, but without the possibility of substantially turning the "button of compensation." In doing so, the budget of the transition fee is estimated by mr. The Late most complicated. In this context, he rightly points to the Baijings problem. What can we expect the Minister to do to repair these extremely undesirable results? And I would like to say nothing about the expected increase in the workload in the judiciary, the arbitrary maximisation of the transition fee to 150% and the expectation that older workers in permanent employment will be seriously affected in the event of dismissal. Mr. Chairman. The chain clause is not yet subject to a thorough review, but the Minister believes that it is desirable to allow temporary contracts of three years before a person is required to enter permanent employment. At the same time, the German Government is proposing, with exactly the same objective as the Dutch Government, to reduce the maximum duration of the chain from 24 to 18 months. But what does the aforementioned package sorter Janusz Cwikla have to gain from this? He has to leave regularly for six months before returning to service. That's what his employer does to keep him out of permanent employment. Then he and his colleagues are pushed back and forth between different e.g. from a temporary agency. What does he get from adjusting the chain clause, I ask the Minister? What the PvdA is most surprised is that invaders in primary education are excluded from the chain scheme if they replace a sick teacher. As a result, workers' protection in primary education is more limited than in other sectors, while teachers are succumbing to the pressure of work and are not getting a fair salary. Then try again to find a substitute who then has to do more or less structural work on a temporary basis. As with call forces, we see that the proposal legitimizes the insecurity of invaders in primary education and thus contradicts the objective of the WAB as a whole. Moreover, this is not the wish of the social partners. They want 36 months and not unlimited, as the SAB suggests. How does a substitute in primary education get better from the present bill, I ask the Minister. Apart from the uncertainty, this is the principle that labour market considerations do not belong in the Civil Code, as the Advisory Section of the Council of State points out. Agreements for the replacement of teachers due to illness in primary education can be made by social partners in the collective agreement. But instead of offering this space to the social partners, the Minister upsets the balance by adjusting the Civil Code. Furthermore, this is at odds with the Law on standardisation of the legal status of civil servants, which regulates the application of normal collective agreement law to employees in the public administration and in public education. Can we expect additional exceptions from the Minister? Mr. Chairman. Since the present legislative proposal consists of a series of measures, I have no choice but to go through some of them. The PvdA appreciates the clarity of the premium differentiation in the WW according to contract form. According to Professor Roozendaal, however, the design of the premium differentiation offers wide scope for improper use and fraud and will lead to complex implementation. The Tax Office reports that the measure is not fraud-proof. It is not for the Tax Administration to determine whether the actual agreements between the employee and the employer deviate from the contract of employment. The Tax Administration depends on UWV for the enforcement of the revisions. However, UWV questions enforcement and feasibility. UWV is considered to send signals to the Tax Administration for the enforcement activities of UWV about situations in which employers are liable, on closer examination and with retroactive effect, to send a high premium. That part is in all cases by not performing UWV error-free or conclusively. According to UWV, these are substantial numbers. The implementation problems in this section are therefore important for the full implementation and enforcement of the proposal, says UWV. A Chamber whose core task is to assess the quality of legislation for legality, feasibility and enforcement must, in my group's view, take this very seriously into account in the final assessment of the legislative proposal before us. Surely the Minister can only agree to that? A further obstacle to implementation is made up of exceptions in the scheme, e.g. specific exemptions for flex contracts due to climatic conditions. In addition, the exception advocated by employers for seasonal work constitutes a new and wide escape route to escape the higher premium. In what way will the Minister make an effort to close this route? The sectoral classification is a valued basis for cooperation in sectors. I refer to the social agreement of 2014 and the opinion of the SER of 2015 on the financing of the WW. The final evaluations are not expected until 2020, so here too we see that the bill is premature. Worse still, there are serious doubts about the fairness and fairness of transferring the positive assets in the existing sector funds to the General Unemployment Fund. Indeed, in some sectors, such as agriculture, this fund is used to prevent unemployment. What is the Minister doing to restore the corresponding undermining of the acceptance of this bill? Mr. Chairman. With regard to call agreements, the government proposes to strengthen the position of call forces in order to avoid negative effects such as unnecessary permanent availability and long-term income uncertainty. In this way, the proposal before us deals with excessive availability. One of the measures to this end is to link consequences to non-compliance with a call time. However, this does not provide relief for all employees with variable work patterns. After all, anyone who has agreed on a fixed but low number of hours per month or even per year and can be called on permanently is not covered by this scheme but lives in uncertainty. Each month the same wage but not a fixed schedule is difficult to combine with other work. Moreover, the four-day deadline is likely to become the new standard, while 28 days have been the starting point. In addition, it is questionable whether callers will be able to collect the remuneration due. The colleagues of the aforementioned Iraida Donk do not dare. Many have insecure work, with a zero-hour contract for example, and are afraid that they will not be called up anymore. Afraid they'll lose their jobs if they stand up for themselves. Worse, according to Professor Roozendaal, the possibility of returning demand for labour to workers is brought in through the back door of the standard of annual hours during call work. She writes: "It is conceivable that the use of this form of contract can lead to great uncertainty for employees. (...) The proposal legitimizes this uncertainty and thus contradicts the objective of the SAB as a whole." What can we expect from the Minister to improve the position of call forces in line with the objective of the SAB? And why do people with a zero-hour contract keep uncertainty? Mr. Chairman. According to the amendment in part No. 60 over 21-minners, the percentage of the low premium shall apply if it is a worker who has not yet reached the age of 21, provided that the number of hours paid in the four-week declaration period does not exceed 48 hours or in the one-month declaration period does not exceed 52 hours. Professor Roozendaal points out that this in its present form seems to be a measure which employers want to tax less if they use a lot of pupils and students, who do not often apply for a WW benefit. Does the Minister consider it appropriate to encourage employers to employ pupils and students in this way? What is the objective justification for the age limit of 21 years? Does the Minister with the PvdA fear undesirable displacement as a result of this amendment? Mr. Chairman. My group considers it a missed opportunity for the Minister not to take the opportunity to tackle both the affordability of our pension system and unfair competition in the labour market. I'd like to explain this, starting with pensions. There is a double ageing population, because there is an increasing number of pensioners and the average life expectancy is rising. In addition, there is a double hazing, because the birth rate is falling and young people barely enter the system because they almost all have temporary or flex contracts, or work as zzp'ers. In addition, robotisation in some sectors puts further pressure on the relationship between pensioners and workers. This puts the system under enormous pressure and makes it difficult to reach a pension agreement. If we want to maintain our beautiful welfare state in this kind of development, then by far the best solution is for everyone to participate in retirement and disability. There is little we can do about getting old and ill, and the distinction between employees and entrepreneurs is very artificial. Therefore, the best and most simple solution is if everyone participates in a pension fund and is insured against incapacity for work. This immediately solves another problem, namely the race down in terms of working conditions and the unfairly distributed tax pressure between people with a fixed contract andzzp'ers. Since the latter usually do not build up a pension and therefore do not pass the cost on to their rates, they are soon 20% to 25% cheaper than an employed person. That is unfair competition, and it reduces wages. Zzp'ers also pay less tax, while they, because they do not have a pension and often do not have disability insurance, are ultimately much more dependent on the welfare state, of which the people in permanent employment pay a greater proportion. This is not solidarity, and this makes the welfare state unnoticed, slice by slice, calving off. If you think about this to its ultimate consequence, there are ultimately too few people who still pay enough tax to keep AOW and assistance on hold, while the group that needs these facilities is only growing. The simplest solution: make participation in the welfare state mandatory. I would like a response from the Minister to this proposal. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. In my group's opinion, the proposal before us is both too much and too little. It is, in the words of an unappointable colleague in the Senate, a bill with "things." These concern both certain time and call forces and payrolling and the cumulation ground and the transition fee et cetera. It is for the First Chamber to choose between swallowing and choking, and according to the Hoekstra motion this Chamber is not very happy with that. Moreover, the bill is premature, because the results of the evaluation of the Work and Security Act are not even in. Figures from the CBS even show that the share of fixed contracts is increasing. Steven van Weyenberg, member of the Lower House for D66, even calls this a trend break in a tweet. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Ik kan niet anders dan die toeschrijven aan de Wet werk en zekerheid.]] On the contrary, the "things" contained in the present bill do not address the position ofzzp'ers. Worse, they increase the chances of all kinds of waterbed effects. These impacts are further enhanced by the emergence of the platform economy. Digital work platforms, such as Uber, Temper and Roamler, can lead to a sharp increase in the number ofzzp'ers in the Netherlands. Not only temporary agency workers, but also workers with short-term and call contracts can end up on a large scale on a zzp platform. Platforms makezzp work much easier. And this is often about people who don't want to be azzp'er. In ING's analysis of Marieke Blom, this could lead to an increase in the number ofzzp'ers by 1 million. That amounts to a large doubling. In this scenario, the Dutch labour market would consist for more than a fifth of self-employed people without staff. The result of the emergence of the platform economy is that the Dutch labour market is changing dramatically. But this platform economy is not addressed in the legislative proposal before us. Worse, this increases its attractiveness. Mr. Chairman. Also with the Labour Market Act in balance, Iraida, Janusz and Cor continue to fight unfairly. As a PvdA, we want to stand up for them. My group is far from convinced that the present legislative proposal will restore balance on the Dutch labour market. That is why we look forward with extra interest to the Minister's reply to our questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Sent. I see that Mr Rinnooy Kan wants to cause an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u12	To avoid any misunderstanding: I would not claim the spiritual paternity of the expression "things." But what I do want to do is briefly reflect on Mrs Sent's long speech, which she started with a look back at the post-war Netherlands. If anything can be said about the development of the labour market in the post-war Netherlands, then I think that Mrs Sent's party held the Ministry of Social Affairs for the vast majority of the period we see again. And if there is one party that has laid the foundations for the rules and legislation in this area, I think that is also Mrs Sent's party. That was the case until the previous cabinet. Then it is remarkable to hear the long list of shortcomings and complaints without at least asking her the question at what point it actually went wrong. It is difficult to imagine that this has happened in the last two years. These problems have an exceptionally long history and a large part of them, let me say immediately, I acknowledge and recognise this cabinet. It is not for nothing that a series of initiatives and measures are being put into motion. At what point did it get out of hand in Mrs Sent's opinion? Was her party perhaps not closely involved in this at the time and in what sense can she explain afterwards how it is possible that it now looks back with so much self-confidence on problems that have been generated to a large extent in its own party?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u13	For example, the previous cabinet has taken a large number of measures to restore the labour market balance. Think of the Work and Security Act. The evaluation has not yet been carried out, but the effect seems to be that there are fewer flex workers and more permanent employees. The previous cabinet has looked at dealing with bogus self-employment through the DBA Act. The previous cabinet has laid down minimum rates for contract contracts in a bill adopted in this Chamber. I would like to refer the question back to Mr Rinnooy Kan, because he rightly calls for a great deal of attention to be paid to the position ofzzp'ers. He has done so in several written rounds of questions with the previous cabinet and with this cabinet. In that sense, he is also very consistent in asking for attention for this group. But to what extent does the legislative proposal before us tackle the problem ofzzp'ers? I don't see that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u14	Soon Mrs. Sent will be able to ask me questions, but now I'm asking her questions. To be honest, I am surprised to hear her here claiming the attempt of the previous cabinet to address thezzp issue as a success. If something has emerged, it is precisely this approach that was ultimately doomed to failure. What really matters to me is that what we are seeing here is not a development of recent times, but an extremely long history. Indeed, the Dutch labour market is out of balance. We really agree on that. But I would have expected more sympathy and appreciation for the efforts of this cabinet to do something about it. We all agree that there is an urgent need for this. The present package addresses to an important extent what is needed. The basis for this is empirically not as strong as it could be, but it is also not different from its many predecessors who have been joyfully responsible for the work of Mrs Sent's party mates.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u15	The draft law before us is premature, because the evaluation of the Work and Security Act has not yet taken place and we already see the first positive effects in the statistics of the Central Bureau of Statistics. The legislative proposal before us does not address the broad problems in the labour market. This is also apparent from the fact that there is a Borstlap committee which has to deal with this wide-ranging problem. She will present an interim report this summer and probably in November with a final report. It is premature to accept a legislative proposal without proper justification, even though we already know that it opens up all kinds of escape routes: an escape route to contracting, an escape route to posting abroad, an escape route to sham broadcasting. This morning it was already explained in the newspaper how to design such a route. I find it irresponsible to now accept a bill that has so many unintended side-effects and that does not take place in the wider context ofzzp'ers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u16	Finally, Mr. Rinnooy Kan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u17	Would Mrs Sent be in favour of leaving the WWZ for the time being for what it is and that this cabinet no longer needs to take its own initiative?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u18	I warmly welcome the initiative of the cabinet. I look forward very much to the advice of the Borstlap Committee. I am eagerly looking forward to the cabinet's ideas for an alternative to the DBA Act. I believe that this bill should be embedded in that broad context, otherwise it will have too many unintended side effects.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Sent. I give the floor to Mr Nagel.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u20	Mr. Chairman. Sometimes there is an unintended difference between intention and the drafting of a legislative proposal. To clarify that, today we are discussing the Labour Market Act in balance. The intention of the Cabinet is to strike a new balance between security and opportunities by adapting arrangements in the areas of flexible work, dismissal rights and unemployment, with the aim of increasing the security of workers and making it more attractive for employers to offer more permanent contracts to workers. But the result, as the Council of State concluded on 18 October last year, is that the introduction of this bill continues to leave too many differences between the various categories of workers. The measures proposed lead to new tensions in the labour market. The Council of State considered that the problem approach of the proposal is insufficient to achieve a labour market balance. 50PLUS agrees with this statement. In addition, the Cabinet confirms that the legislative proposal's potential effectiveness and labour market effects are hardly or do not allow itself to be estimated. That's because of the sloppy preparation. A very sound labour market analysis by the CPB was omitted. The economist and journalist Mathijs Bouman recently pointed out in Nieuwsuur that the law was parachuted without consultation with the social partners. Moreover, from all sides, the question arises as to why a new law should be introduced right now, while the review of the current Work and Security Act announced before early 2021 has not yet been carried out, which is evidence of a careless process of legislation. At the expert meeting in the First Chamber on 12 March this year, the Professor of Labour Law Evert Verhulp pointed out that the change of the WWZ included in the government agreement is based on outdated principles. Moreover, according to him, any legislative amendment involves unrest and often years of uncertainty about the precise effect of the case law, with all the enormous costs involved. At the same meeting Professor Laagland asked the question: what do we like the Netherlands? The labour market does not serve to ensure that companies and workers are constantly confronted with new rules, which often require clarification through the case law. The President of SMEs, Jacco Vonhof, also calls for the law to be arrested. In November there will be an opinion from the Borstlap Committee on the labour market, as has just been recalled. This only leads to higher costs, more hassle and not more permanent jobs. He sums it up in a nutshell: it's just not him. Moreover, 50PLUS is deeply concerned about the widely recognised position of older people in the labour market. In this law, their position in the field of dismissal law is severely undermined. The further reply, dated 7 May last, points out that a legislative proposal is being prepared to provide for a more comprehensive regime for older workers who are made redundant just before the age of AOW. Isn't this another reason not to deal with this law now? The bill is rattling on all sides. The slippery flex is not addressed and remains an open escape route to cheap labour. The Council of State found that the Dutch labour market has been more flexible than in other countries with these trends. Over the past 15 years, the number of flexible workers in the Netherlands has increased from over 1 million to almost 2 million. Mrs. Sent remembered that, too. Furthermore, cost competition between fixed and flex is not really being tackled, which now seems certain for workers, on the contrary, is becoming less. This law is a loss note for all workers who are given insufficient social protection. The proposal to extend the chain of temporary contracts from two to three years has great shadows. It could be a camouflage blanket to temporarily employ and fire people before the right to a permanent contract arises. Can the Minister explain how he sees this in an international context? Is it true that the German Government does not want to extend the 24-month period but rather shorten it to 18 months, while the same goal is being pursued? So what's the difference in consideration? The professor Laagland mentioned earlier stated that making employees permanently available to a third of our neighbours is prohibited in Belgium and Germany. What effects can this have on the Dutch labour market? Mr. Chairman. We have done our best to seek some improvement for the elderly, but we have not really been able to find it. On the contrary. Everyone knows that older people are the most vulnerable group in the labour market. But their position is more affected by this law. It's gonna be easier to get rid of older people, it's gonna be much cheaper. On 12 March, Professor Verhulp once again argued that it is conceivable that the transition fee to which they are entitled after 1 January 2020 will be more than half lower than the remuneration of before 1 January 2020. It can be guessed what such a large reduction will mean for the labour market position of the elderly. Faster dismissal is obvious, with all the consequences, also for the pension gap that the elderly get. Moreover, in practice it has been shown for many, many years that the older worker can apply for an interview but is indisputably poor chance of finding a job at this age. This law hurts in more ways, because we know there are opportunities. In recent years, 50PLUS has repeatedly spoken with employers who are willing to give older workers a job, provided that this can be done on better conditions. On the other hand, we know older unemployed people who would like to talk about this matter. It is evident that this law is revenged by what I mentioned earlier: a sloppy, non-systematic and incoherent preparation, no good labour market analysis, no consultation with stakeholders and their organisations. To sum up, this is bad legislation for workers and for older people in particular. The 50PLUS MP Corrie van Brenk said about this in the debate: "Old is wrong in this cabinet!" The weaker position of older people in the labour market and their low job opportunities are not taken into account in any way. The Rutte I, II or III Cabinets, or whatever they are called, have had a completely inadequate feeling about the terrible consequences of the pension gaps. Older people are a trampled group. If the cabinet wants to look at the elderly, it has to lift its sole first. It is sad to note that in this jungle of half and very opaque measures, the shiny and muscular tarzan desired by the Minister, in the main role in practice, has been screamed into a skittish bird. Mr. Chairman. For all the reasons we have mentioned, we ask the Minister to uphold this bill. Otherwise, the vote against 50PLUS will be inevitable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u21	Thank you, Mr. Nagel. I give the floor to Mr Rinnooy Kan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The present legislative proposal is undoubtedly the last in this area to be submitted to the present Chamber. It's a time to look back. For me, therefore, there is a great temptation, with excuse, to see the discussion of this proposal as the conclusion of a 30-year commitment on my part to many political efforts to improve the functioning of the labour market. That period began in the heart of the WAO crisis in the 1990s and ran through the Flex Act and the essential kitchen table of Niek Jan van Kesteren to lengthy discussions about dismissal law and pension reform and to the first proposal on which I was allowed to speak in this Chamber, the DBA Act on the regulation ofzzp'ers. He just came up. In this so abbreviated domain, the zzp'er has acquired a place to think, a source of new opportunities, but also a source of new problems. Mr. Chairman. If one development is evident during that period, it is the growing understanding that the regulatory mechanisms in the labour market have exceeded their expiry date. Too much legislation in recent years is trying, by tightening or loosening one or more screws, to tempt employers, employees and self-employed people to change their behaviour. Too often it turns out that this is less and less easy, with as climax the DBA Act, which was declared impossible shortly after assumption. The D66 Group therefore welcomes the institution by this cabinet of the Borstlap Committee, a consultative committee which we are all waiting for with great interest. It has already been said by previous speakers. But it will be a while before the views of this Chamber reach this Chamber as legislative proposals. In the meantime, therefore, the Minister could not do much other than take up the screwdriver again to deal with a list of urgent problems. My group fully understands that. Unfortunately, he has to submit the result to this Chamber without the samezzp'ers being part of that list: they will only come later this year. That's not without risks. This interim regulation, in a now popular metaphor, could create a "waterbed" of routes that transform flex workers into zzp'ers, instead of leading them to the fixed positions that they are thus awarded. That is not the intention, but anyone entering a waterbed with a screwdriver is at risk. Mr. Chairman. I do not expect anything other than that the Minister will again want to make clear to this Chamber why he would like to see this law dealt with and reviewed before 4 June. In any case, he and his officials have not been absent from their efforts and diligence in answering all the previous questions and comments from the Chamber. More than 100 pages include this exchange of views, but I would not be surprised if some Members of this Chamber still do not feel they are insufficiently served. Some of the initial concerns of the D66 Group have now been removed. I'll get back to you on that. What remains is still a sense of disappointment that employers and employees have not been able to agree on a common perspective on the proposed regulation, so that they only agree on their neatly distributed disagreements about the entire legislative proposal. I would like to appeal to the Minister to give them a generous opportunity to be closely involved in the follow-up to the Borstlap opinion. The labour market is their reality. Both a need for flexibility and a need for security is part of that reality at different times in different combinations, for employers and for employees. To construct the necessary space and the inevitable restrictions is the difficult task of the legislator. The discussion on labour law in the Upper Chamber will tend to focus on aspects of feasibility; it is a role that suits us. This approach has also been central to the WAB debate. When consulting the questionnaire developed in this Chamber in recent years, my group immediately welcomed the fact that the complexity of this implementation was recognised and addressed in many places in the explanatory notes and answers. However, effectiveness and efficiency of the present law remain difficult to predict and the empirical underpinning of the ambitions pursued is limited. The law does not differ substantially from many predecessors. Earlier, the D66 Group called for attention to the importance of deeper and subsequent scientific research in this policy area. The members of the group welcomed the Minister's undertaking that he wanted to reserve sufficient resources for this. The proposals of the Borstlap Committee will also undoubtedly require a scientific follow-up and offer opportunities for a further deepening of this modest tradition, if only to indicate better where the return to permanent employment would be most likely. Probably a little less solid, flex a little less flex... someday it sounded so simple. Mr. Chairman. In its first and second contributions, the D66 group shared several of its own implementation concerns with the government, for example on the implementation of call and premium differentiation and on the practical consequences of the welcome cumulation ground for dismissal practice. The Group is grateful to the government for its comprehensive response to this. However, the members of the group still have some more practical questions about the transition fees. Is it true, for example, that there is no pension ceiling, which was part of the canton court formula, and if so, would that not be an appropriate supplement? And is the attractive intention of the government agreement to make demonstrable and relevant development and training costs imputable to the transition fee fully implemented?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u23	I have a question about the feasibility of the premium differentiation, although Mr Rinnooy Kan was already a step further. Professor Roozendaal discussed this at the expert meeting. It indicated that the design of the premium differentiation offers a wide scope for improper use and fraud and will lead to complex implementation. I would like a response from Mr Rinnooy Kan to that statement by Professor Roozendaal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u24	We have put the same question to the Minister. In the response we have received, the Minister has assured us that, in his firm conviction, the administrative authorities which will be responsible for it will be able to cope with this complexity. The sensitivity of fraud to which it refers has not been addressed. I assume that the Minister himself will respond to her question in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u25	That firm conviction is not shared by UWV and the Tax Administration. Can Mr Rinnooy tell us where that difference of opinion is coming from?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u26	As far as that would be the case, that is a good question. In any case, the Minister has strongly defended the feasibility, particularly from the Tax Administration. So I do not think I can do much better than refer to him on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u27	Two questions were raised in my speech by Mr Rinnooy. The first is about the beginning of his speech, when he said that he has been working on this subject for 30 years. Then came to me the somewhat personal question as to whether this law is a highlight or a low point. The second question concerns the subject he has just raised, namely the cumulation ground. I heard the term "welcome cumulation ground" there. My question is whether Mr Rinnooy Kan is not afraid that the cumulation ground also offers the possibility of bringing together some sort of grabble of dismissal grounds, which weakens the position of workers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u28	I'll start with the latter: I'd hope not. I don't think anyone needs that. What was needed, at least from the point of view of my party, is a little more room for even in situations where a number of arguments are not sufficiently strong, to achieve a just break-up of an employment relationship. In any case, that is the logic of a cumulation ground. I hope, with Mr Schalk, that this will also be used wisely in practice. His first question is indeed a personal matter. This legal treatment will in all honesty not be a highlight, but perhaps for a different reason than he thinks. During the long period of up to 30 years to which he himself refers, the ability of employers and employees to come to a common perspective has been characteristic of the Dutch labour market. Major reforms were organised in such a way that there was substantial support on both sides. From that perspective, the current legal treatment can only be regarded as disappointing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u29	The latter was taken from my heart, so I can follow that very well. I'll come back to the cumulation ground. I, too, understand that if there is no sufficient ground, it may be useful to raise several grounds. But then the question to Mr Rinnooy is, of course, whether it can be all kinds of different parts or whether they have to be found in conjunction with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u30	It would be my assessment and hope that the coherence lies in the actual employment relationship. The break-up of an employment relationship is a major issue for the employer and employee, especially for the latter, and can only be done with care, but in accordance with the arguments of that complex practice. It seemed to me that it was precisely this that was lacking before something like the cumulation ground became available. I would therefore hope that this will allow a more realistic perspective from which the discussions between the employer and the employee who is then needed can be conducted.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u31	I would like to take a moment with Mr Rinnooy Kan to consider the need to introduce a cumulation ground. As I indicated in my speech, a calculation shows that in 0.0054% of the cases an employer is reluctant to fire an employee, but ultimately unable to do so. The Work and Security Act has not yet been thoroughly evaluated. The number of fixed contracts is increasing, according to the calculations of the CBS. So what does Mr Rinnooy think shows that there is a need to introduce a cumulation ground?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u32	That is ultimately a question that should be put to the Minister. I would like to say that in my own contacts and in our group's contacts with various lawyers working in this world, the absence of the cumulation ground has been perceived as a fundamental flaw. That is not to necessarily serve the employee badly, but precisely to do justice to the complexity of an overall relationship. So I still hope that the actual practice of labour law will be well served by this legislative amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u33	I still don't understand what that hope is based on. After all, there are all kinds of facts that show us that there is no need for a cumulation ground at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u34	The facts to which Mrs Sent refers only cover part of that reality. It is precisely the reality that the lawyer himself is confronted with that is an important ingredient of my hope that we can speak here of a positive and positive development.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u35	I heard Mr Rinnooy Kan just now say in reply to Mr Schalk that he regrets it so I translate it at least that the reform of the labour market through this law is not based on an agreement between employers and employees. I'm surprised he regrets that. D66's criticism of the previous law, the Work and Security Act, was precisely that the government silently presented the compromise between employers and employees to parliament. That was the criticism at D66 across the street at the time. Now this government comes up with a law that is not agreed on and which, on the contrary, both employers and many workers' organizations are opposed to, and now you regret that these employers and workers have not been in agreement. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u36	Then I'd be happy to explain, because it's not that complicated. The indiscriminate adoption of compromises is not something I am advocating here, because that can never be the intention. Politics has its own responsibility and it must also be taken and actively confessed. But that does not alter the fact that politics benefits from a common perspective of employers and employees, which they are presented with togetherness and on which politics can develop its own perspective. That is missing now, and I regret that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u37	Mr. Köhler, do you have any response? No? You don't have to!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u38	Mr Rinnooy Kan does a bit of enticing, given the history of this law. When the Work and Security Act had not yet been evaluated and had just entered into force, the coalition parties all set out several points in their programmes on which they felt that a legislative change should be made without evaluation. They then put that on a big pile and made it a political compromise. This may be the case in politics, but do you find it strange that employers' and employees' organisations should not be involved in this? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u39	Then I would very much like to serve Mr Köhler again, because exactly what he describes has been the course of events for 30 years, ahead of time. Law changes and political turns that are being made in the field of labour market legislation and regulation very often start with political intentions in party programmes. They then lead to government agreements and from that point on there is also room for employers and employees to react and to see to what extent they can agree to them, or to discuss possible adjustments and changes. Very often, this has led in the past to the development of a common perspective and, in addition, to its path, with appropriate adjustments here and there, in legislation and regulations which could therefore count on broad support. That is the route I would have liked to have given this legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u40	Proceed, Mr. Rinnooy Kan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will conclude by referring to one area where the group's concerns have not yet disappeared. Both in their first and second contributions, the members of the group asked for the government's attention to the future of the pay-rolling sector in relation to the sharp, labour-conditional boundary which the law aims to establish between pay-rolling and temporary work. All points to the fact that this border will have great practical consequences and many payroll entrepreneurs experience it as an existential threat. It cannot be ruled out that some of them are going to turn their activities towards the broadcasting sector, and the NRC is already writing about this today, and that the labour market could in future be faced with the fakes that they have moved with them. This is not an improvement for the workers concerned, especially if they were to be excluded from the functioning of the new ABU collective agreement. Does the Minister recognize these concerns? Does he think it possible to adjust these developments in such a way that the welcome opportunity for small employers to take care of themselves by payrollers is not lost? It seems that payrollers under the SAB will not be able to escape developments in costs and regulations that could substantially affect their competitive position. This applies in particular to the pension obligation which will be imposed on them by AMvB and which gave rise to complex explanations during the written exchange of views with the Government. Should the Minister not substantially extend the deadline for the creation of this new pension scheme, for example by one year? And doesn't this complicated AMvB still deserve a parliamentary suspension procedure that does justice to the economic importance of the new regulation? Mr. Chairman. The labour market is at the heart of the economy, as a major source of prosperity for the country and as an important source of self-development for its inhabitants. Labour market policy is thus at the heart of government policy, an opportunity for Cabinet and Chamber to make a substantial contribution to the future of the Netherlands, with screwdriver and drawing. The D66 Group will be happy to contribute to this as best it can and looks forward to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u42	Mr Rinnooy Kan said at the beginning of his speech that the law we are discussing at this stage could not be much more than addressing a number of pressing issues. I thought he would come back to that later in his speech, but he did not do so except for one point. That's why I have a question for him: is reducing the time that you can get temporary contracts from your boss from three to two years in the Work and Security Act proved to be a concrete bottleneck in such a way that now urgently the opposite direction has to be taken?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u43	In the opinion of the government, this conviction is shared by my group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u44	Can I then give some explanation of what your group has brought to view this as a concrete bottleneck?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u45	The group did not see this as a concrete bottleneck. The government sees it as so and has also explained and explained it in the law and the explanatory statement. We agree and agree with that explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u46	Mr Rinnooy Kan rightly points out the importance of tackling labour market bottlenecks. The situation ofzzp'ers is such an important bottleneck, but that does not address the legislative proposal before us. I would like to receive an assessment of the desirability of the present legislative proposal in the context of the fact that this major bottleneck is not being addressed. On top of that, the present legislative proposal opens new routes for fakes, contracts and so on. In doing so, it has undesirable side-effects, and in this context, too, I am curious to see Mr Rinnooy Kan's assessment of the desirability of the legislative proposal before us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u47	As far as the latter is concerned, I have just invited the Minister to respond. That's what I'm waiting for with interest. We share the view expressed by many here, and in particular by Mrs Sent, that the labour market is urgently needed for additional regulation forzzp'ers. The question is whether this law could play a useful role in advance. I expect the Minister to explain this as well. For the moment, we are convinced that this will be the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u48	But how can Mr Rinnooy be convinced of that if this law makes it more attractive to usezzp structures?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u49	In my view and in my opinion, the assessment is that at best this will be the case to a very modest extent. I am strengthened in this, because, for example, the publication to which she herself referred shows that, in the case of payrollers, where a first leak of that category might threaten, the route would still lead to temporary work. So that it will run in the direction of the broadcast cao and not in the direction of an additional offer ofzzp-places. I therefore hope that in other respects too the route will not lead in that direction. I do not expect anything other than that, if that is the case, the Minister is prepared to take interim measures to minimise this to a minimum, preferably zero.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u50	Thank you, Mr. Rinnooy Kan. I give the floor to Mr Schalk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u51	Thank you, Madam President. Today we are discussing a law aimed at a radical change in the labour market, while earlier measures, in particular the Work and Security Act, have not yet been evaluated. Apparently, the Minister finds bottlenecks so obvious that waiting for an evaluation is only harmful and comes up with this law, the so-called SAB. A comparison between the two legislative proposals is appropriate in order to assess their usefulness and necessity. Three main goals of the WWZ were: to create greater security for flex workers; to make the right of dismissal more unambiguous, simpler and cheaper; to make the WW more active. Apparently, those targets have not been sufficiently achieved. Now the Minister comes up with this law, with the highest aim of reducing the cost and risk differences between methods of contract extension. The government's aim is to ensure that flex workers are no longer hired out of fear, but from the nature of work. The key question is, of course, whether this law will have the desired effect. This question is all the more pressing since the Council of State has warned of the so-called waterbed effect, i.e. by solving one problem it may increase tensions elsewhere in the labour market. In response, the Minister states that the balance sheet will not only be achieved by this bill, but that he sees it more as a first step in a series of three measures. The first is the WAB, in which the difference in protection between flex and fixed is reduced. Secondly, the position of self-employed workers in the labour market, employers' obligations related to disability and illness, and lifelong learning or development are addressed. Thirdly, there will be an opinion on the fundamental questions about the future of the regulation of work that will take place in the longer term. In itself, these are all three steps that may be important. However, it is not yet clear to my party why these three plans would intersect in such a way that a better balance would arise on the labour market. The Council of State warns that while risks are being removed or combated, this does not automatically balance the labour market. Moreover, for the time being there is only one law for the first point, while the government is still busy with the other two measures. In the further reply, the Minister even indicated that he would choose the broader package by adopting a pragmatic approach along five separate but coherent routes, in order to take steps and increase acceptance. My questions on this point are as follows. Can the Minister state clearly what is now the cohesion that is leading together to a better balance on the labour market? What if the government doesn't succeed? That is not unthinkable, if you look at, for example, the blowing of the pension agreement. What does the Labour Market Act balance us with added value if the two other objectives are not met or not met sufficiently? Madam President. The SGP group is also concerned about people with a weak labour market position. It concerns the so-called insiders with permanent employment and strong protection. Outsiders have little protection and little security. For employers who have to deal with developments such as technologicalisation and globalisation, it does not just become a stable market position. Then it is logical for employers to make choices on the basis of risks and costs, and hence on the basis of flex, precisely and above all for those with a weaker labour market position, unfortunately. After all, that is the most vulnerable group. They are facing an ever wider problem. It may start with the labour market, but that also affects their overall well-being, their future prospects, their position on the housing market, and so on. In other words, people with a weaker labour market position end up in some sort of vicious circle. How can that be broken? If that happens to a sufficient extent through this bill, my question is. Another concern is the open dismissal ground, in particular by introducing the cumulation ground. Again, I'm going back to the Work and Security Act. In the social agreement which led to the WWZ, two important agreements were made in the context of a new right of dismissal. On the one hand, the dismissal allowance, the transition fee, was fixed and its level was also significantly reduced in the law compared to the current canton court formula. On the other hand, the grounds for dismissal were set out exhaustively in the law, where legal dismissal could in future only take place if one of the grounds laid down in the law were fully satisfied. These agreements struck a certain balance: on the one hand, the dismissal compensation was reduced, on the other hand, the dismissal test became stricter. The Labour Market Act in balance actually comes with half a counter-movement. By introducing an open dismissal ground, under the name "cumulative land," the combination of various dismissal grounds becomes possible again. Canton judges will soon have to decide whether the accumulation, the accumulation, of dismissal grounds justify any dismissal. For employees, this is a deterioration. For employers, it can be more expensive. Then where's the balance? And is it true that the introduction of the cumulation ground for dismissal does not upset the balance? It would be wise if a thorough investigation had first been carried out into the effect of introducing an additional dismissal ground. Now there is a risk that this additional dismissal land will become an escape route in order to restore "easy" dismissal. This is at odds with careful staffing policy and also creates an imbalance in the right of dismissal. Moreover, the cumulation ground is not limited. It's obvious this could be an endless mess. A build-up of land that would not be grounds for dismissal in itself can now quite unilaterally be exploited to force dismissal. I was just talking about it with Mr Rinnooy Kan. Are there limits to cumulation? Is the Minister prepared, for example, to limit cumulation by introducing a maximum of three grounds? If the Minister states that mentioning a ceiling does not fit in with the law, it is also important to prevent the creation of a kind of grabbelton of dismissal grounds to add up to a 100% full dismissal ground. Is it possible to indicate that there is at least a need to establish a link between the various grounds when using the cumulation ground? By setting a maximum, there will be a new balance. Then the employer will have to make a choice in the real-life grounds. And by demanding coherence, the employee is not forced to defend himself on a multitude of small points. Moreover, the canton court is not dragged into a multitude of perhaps sought grounds to support a dismissal application. Madam President. There's something else bothering me at the cumulation ground. The sixth ground for dismissal, the F ground, can also be used, namely the refusal of work in the event of conscientious objection. This becomes very complicated, because the conscientious objector is protected by law, in the sense that a person cannot be dismissed if he has a conscientious objection as long as the employer cannot prove that he has not been able to carry out the work otherwise. The cumulation ground allows any dismissal ground to be applied in a reduced form. This could lead to an employer finding it a bit difficult to change the work stipulated. This does not do justice to the position of a conscientious objector and to the intention of the legislator. Does the Minister agree with me that conscientious objection cannot be partial and that an employer cannot make it partially plausible that the work could be done in a suitable form? Can the Minister confirm that, in the event of an appeal to conscientious objection, the dismissal of the conscientious objector is not made easier within the grounds of cumulation, which does not weaken and undermine the rights of the conscientious objector? How can the Minister promote that the judge will be reluctant to involve conscientious objection in the cumulation ground? Madam President, I'm finishing up. Various parts of the law have been improved in the Lower House. That was a win. I hope that the Minister will be able to remove the various concerns I have identified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u52	Thank you, Mr. Schalk. I give the floor to Mr Van de Ven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are discussing in this house the bill Labour Market Act in balance or simply the WAB. The SAB hits 7.3 million employees. The measures taken by the SAB are indeed aimed at around 2 million flex workers, but also permanent workers fall within the scope of the SAB, for example because of the proposed changes to the right of dismissal. In the SAB there is a wide variety of proposals for adaptations in the field of labour law. These proposals make it difficult for the individual measures, which I consider to be trees, to look at the forest of the SAB. In essence, the SAB focuses solely on the relationship between permanent workers and flex workers in the labour law sphere. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats notes that the permanent job or flexicurity also works in the sphere of social security, taxation, pensions and collective bargaining. The legal form in which work is carried out also has consequences in other areas, such as job opportunities and training opportunities. The quality, feasibility and enforcement of the bill and the impact on SMEs' employers and clients, as well as on flex workers, will determine the final decision-making of the WAB for the VVD Group. My group has already had occasion to ask many critical questions. However, the written answer to the questions by the Minister in the explanatory memorandum and the further explanatory statement has not yet been able to lead to a position of my group on the SAB. In any case, I would like to thank the Minister and his officials in the Department of Social Affairs and Employment, on behalf of my group, for their commitment to answering the questions in the preliminary report and the further preliminary report. Madam President. The fundamental issue with the SAB is the expected waterbed effect. The question is whether the WAB leads to a rise, as with a waterbed, one place, the temporary work orzzp activities, when you push down the other place, the flex work. With the SAB, the government aims to replace flex contracts with fixed contracts. The Council of State explicitly addresses the waterbed effect in its opinion of 11 October 2018. The Council of State raises the question of whether the government's objective of replacing flex by fixed contracts with the SAB can be achieved. In its opinion, the Council of State concludes that the problem description and approach used in the SAB do not adequately reflect the fundamental nature, broad effects and the concrete urgency of the current problem on the labour market. The Council of State notes that it is not the form in which work is organized, flex versus fixed, that is leading to the type of protection of labour, but that every worker is protected in so far as it is necessary to take account of his or her labour market position. The Council of State advises the government to take back the bill and reconsider it. The government has not done so and that is why we are dealing with the SAB today. The VVD Group notes that the SAB has no accompanying measures to avoid the shift from flex contracts to broadcasting contracts orzzp contracts. My group reports that the flexible labour market has already begun to implement the waterbed effect. This was written before the NRC message was published today. My group asks the Minister to give a detailed answer as to whether the SAB, as a measure having a limited effect on the flex market, is forcing all the proposals to be put in place at the moment, in particular the proposed measures against payrolling and not to wait until the results of the study by the Committee on the Regulation of Work, the Borstlap Committee, are known in six months, in November. The VVD Group therefore invites the Minister to comment on alternatives for the legislative proposal to be dealt with in detail, with the exception of the measures for payroll. Madam President. Apart from the Minister's response to this question of principle, my group has a number of other questions on individual measures. The reduction by the Work and Security Act of the maximum term of the chain regime to two years does not seem to have led to a faster flow to fixed contracts. How does the Minister support the fact that the extension of the chain regime to three years will lead to an indeterminate increase in employment contracts? A number of colleagues have already raised this point. On what basis is the Minister's expectation that the calling agreement regime, for example in the healthcare sector, will not lead to the waterbed effect of outsourcing contracts to, for example,zzp'ers rather than to call forces? Madam President. My group calls on the Minister to confirm whether the new definition of payrolling means that 13,875 temporary agency organisations for 1.1 million temporary agency workers per year have to assess individually on the basis of the proposed indicators whether there is payroll or broadcasting, and to keep separate records for this purpose. In addition, the temporary agency industry expects a premium increase of 6.5 percentage points by 2020 with an additional premium burden of 585 million euros. It is true that this increase in costs is to be expected for the industry, as my group is asking. If the client does not perform an allocation function and the employee may not be made available to another employer without the consent of the client, the payroll agreement shall apply under the proposed payroll definition. The payroll employee is treated as if he were employed directly by the user/customer. The criteria in the payroll definition that the user or client should not have an allocation function and that the posting to this user or client is exclusive do not seem to the Council of State to be appropriate criteria for the material interpretation of the contract. Other factors also play a role, such as the duration of the posting, the nature of the work carried out and the efforts made by the payroll company in implementing the payroll agreement. My group asks the Minister how the actual global definition of payrolling, which offers ample scope for interpretation, can prevent broadcasting organisations and payrollers from using the waterbed effect. Madam President. The Minister answered questions from my group about a possible requalification of a temporary employment contract in a payroll agreement under the definition of payroll in the SAB. My group is not yet satisfied that there is a risk of legal uncertainty. My group therefore calls on the Minister to make a clear commitment that, under the facts of the following example, but also in similar case positions, "sending" does not lead to a requalification in payrolling. A client requests that ten employees be made available to temporary employment agency A. Temporary agency A recruits and selects five employees and makes them available to the client. They will then be covered by the temporary agency regime. The other five employees are loaned by temporary agency B to temporary agency A, which makes them available to the client. I ask the Minister to confirm that they will not be subject to the new payroll regime. The entry into force of the SAB in general and of the payroll pension in particular is envisaged with effect from 1 January 2020. It is reported that software houses are in fact unable to divide proprietary broadcasting arrangements between broadcast and payroll respectively, and to incorporate them into separate payroll software. Each temporary agency has its own terms of employment, its own pension bases and so on. If the SAB starts from 1 January 2020 while the date of introduction of the Payroll Pension AMvB would be postponed until 1 January 2021, an unclear situation will arise for at least 200,000 payroll workers from 2020. How does the Minister assess this situation? The total wage bill in the Netherlands is expected to reach 240 billion in 2019. In addition to the expected implementation costs, estimates of the financial consequences of the introduction of the SAB vary widely. The overall impact of the introduction of the WAB is not likely to be assessed so far. A market participant considers that a cost increase of 2,5% overall on the total wage bill is possible, therefore an increase of at least 6 billion. What is the Minister's assessment of the expected cost increase? Following questions from the VVD Group, whether the premium differential is contrary to Article 1 of the Constitution, the government replied that the WAB creates equality in the workplace between permanent work and work on the basis of a payroll contract. However, the VVD's question was aimed at finding out from the Minister whether the difference in treatment due to the premium differentiation justifies a different treatment of the payroll employer and the client/inlender and what figures the minister has for that different treatment. Madam President. A statutory pension scheme breaks the principle in the Pension Act for payrollers that the creation of working conditions is in principle left to employers and employees. A payroll employee is entitled to the pension scheme for the temporary and payroll sector, the so-called StiPP. The proposal puts the employer who carries out payroll activities and who does not fall within the scope of StiPP in a difficult position, because that employer does not itself control or meets the requirements. My group is asking the Minister for a response. The VVD has also received reports that payroll workers over 47 years of age under the new AMvB payroll pension, unlike the current StiPP pension, are paying the same contribution but building up significantly fewer pension rights than before, even half less. Similarly, payroll workers in sectors where no pension is built up, around 15%, with the new AMvB payroll pension scheme as opposed to the current situation, will not build up a pension. Can the Minister confirm these messages and what does he propose to do about them? Madam President. The aim of the SAB is no longer to relate the premium differentiation to the sector, but to whether a fixed-term or indefinite contract of employment is used. In the case of a written contract of employment for an indefinite period in which the extent of the work to be performed is clearly determined, a low contribution shall be payable. In all other cases, the high contribution is paid for workers. The premium difference shall be five percentage points. Does the Minister consider that this pricing can maintain the care-free role of payroll organisations for SMEs? Madam President. The members of my group look forward with interest to the Minister's reply to their questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u54	Thank you, Mr. Van de Ven. I give the floor to Mr Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u55	Mr. Chairman. This month it was announced that women in the Netherlands are having their first child older and older. Young people sometimes postpone this because they do not have sufficient income security to form a family due to all kinds of precarious employment contracts. The evil of so-called flexibility in the labour market continues to suffer. The fact that the growth of flex jobs is stagnating because of the favourable state of the economy does not change that. It is high time to stop flexibilisation, to try to reverse this development. There are a number of proposals for this in the Labour Market Act. The SP Group can certainly endorse this, such as the proposals to increase the WW premium for employers in the event of a temporary contract and to grant a redundancy allowance in the event of a short-term employment. These proposals are not only fair in themselves; they also lead together to the cost of temporary employment for employers rather than permanent employment and, hopefully, to the increase in the number of permanent employment for workers. In order to restore the health of the labour market, it is essential to reduce the number of flex contracts, with all the disadvantages of doing so, in favour of the number of permanent contracts. In this respect, we also support the proposal to bring the working conditions, including pensions, of so-called payroll workers to the same level as those of the workers in the companies where these payrollers are employed. We do not need the whole payroll structure; the function of the so-called relief of small employers can also be carried out by a trained payroll administration office. However, while the payroll structure is still in place, it is good to combat competition at the expense of the working conditions of the workers concerned. And if payroll companies with a earning model disappear at the expense of these workers, then we think that is a good thing, I repeat to the Minister. My group also agrees with the improvement of the legal position of callers, however limited. But that is what the positive points in the legislative proposal are about. On the other hand, there are quite a few points which make the legal position of workers worse, especially for permanent workers. Unlike the government, we do not believe that this is necessary to encourage employers to take on more permanent employment. For example, there is the proposal that employees who have been made redundant for more than 10 years should no longer receive a slightly higher transition fee, or in less ideological terms: no longer give a slightly higher remuneration for dismissal. Does the government really believe that an employer would give someone a permanent employment earlier because, if they were to be dismissed in 24 years' time, they would not receive €31,000 but €24,000 compensation for dismissal? I'd like a response from the Minister. However, this reduction in the remuneration for dismissal is opposed to the introduction of a redundancy allowance in the event of a short-term employment, but the legislative proposal is also not in balance in this respect. The forecast is that additional expenditure for employers will be EUR 350 million per year and savings will be EUR 518 million. The additional redundancy allowance for people who have worked for a long time with the same employer has not just been introduced into the Work and Security Act. The reason is that this group of workers often needs more time to find a new place on the labour market, for example because they need to retrain for a new profession. What has actually changed so that the government throws overboard this reasoning, which has been followed by the very recent Work and Security Act, I ask the Minister. Then I come to the legislative amendment aimed at broadening the grounds for dismissal. A so-called cumulation clause is added to the clear grounds for dismissal which are now laid down in the law. If the judge considers that none of the grounds for dismissal is fully satisfied, the current law does not allow for dismissal. But with the new cumulation provision, a judge can also say that dismissal is fair, because several grounds for dismissal are properly met. The extent to which this should be the case will remain open, and this should be borne in mind in future by case law. Moreover, the court may award up to 50% higher redundancy compensation. What is the problem with this cumulation provision? If dismissal through the courts cannot now, because a dismissal ground is not fully met, then employer and employee agree to resign by means of a so-called settlement agreement. The dismissal allowance is then often based on the old canton judge's formula: one monthly salary per year of service. This is an important difference from the present new law, since in such cases the redundancy allowance will be up to half a month's salary per year of service. It is therefore a reduction in the remuneration for dismissal, and I see no reason at all for that. On this point, moreover, an amendment has been tabled in the Lower House to allow the judge to grant a maximum of twice as much redundancy compensation in these cases, rather than a maximum of one and a half times as much. This would limit the reduction in the redundancy allowance that I have outlined. The government has advised against this amendment. The reason for this has not become clear to us, even after careful examination of the documents. I would like to hear from the Minister again why he does not think that is better than the proposal he is making now. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I come to the very least motivated proposal contained in the draft law. Employers are allowed to give employees temporary contracts for another three years before they have to offer permanent employment. In the Work and Security Act, that deadline had just been reduced from three to two years. To clarify this proposal, the government offers no more than the argument that, when adopting the Work and Security Act, some had doubts as to whether the shortening of that period would be counterproductive, because employers would not offer a fixed contract after two years, and that there would also be signs of that. This difference of assessment of the effects of the three to two years reduction in the Work and Security Act can, in my view, only be assessed by an evaluation of this provision in the Work and Security Act, which is not at all yet available. The proposal to extend the deadline now to three years is also contrary to the intention of the Labour Market Act in balance. The aim is to reduce the number of temporary contracts, because structural work involves permanent contracts. The Minister rightly writes this in the explanatory memorandum and in the answer to written questions about the Labour Market Act in balance. I invite the Minister to undertake in this debate to await the evaluation of the Work and Security Act on this point before deciding on the desirability of extending the period in which you have to work with temporary contracts and the associated uncertainty. Mr. Chairman. The conclusion of the SP Group is that there are at least so many bad proposals in the labour market law before us against a number of good intentions. You could therefore call it a balanced proposal, but that is not the balance that my group is seeking. We want to stop the proliferation of flexible employment contracts and restore the balance on the labour market by unilateral measures to improve the position of people with flex contracts and to increase the number of fixed appointments, but my group is not yet ready to reach a final conclusion on the legislative proposal. We are therefore very interested in the answer given by the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u56	I hear Mr Köhler argue that the introduction and adaptation of the chain clause should only take place after the evaluation of the WWZ. That reminds me of the proposal by Mr Van de Ven, the previous speaker, not to let the SAB deal with pay-rolling. He refers to the measures on payrolling contained in the present bill. I would very much like to hear a response from Mr Köhler on that particular point, i.e. the proposal that the payroll measures should be dealt with later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u57	I said that we think the payroll measures are good measures. We see the objections raised by all sides as ad hoc concerns. We don't see it that way. Moreover, if it were to be the case that the removal of the unfair competitive advantages in payrolling would lead to a flight to bogus self-employed people, then the latter should be combated, namely false self-employment. We must not maintain these unjust payroll contracts. We are therefore opposed to the postponement of that provision. Moreover, this Chamber has so far only been able to vote against or in favour of the whole of the law, depending on the Minister's reply. We are curious to hear his answers, but you have heard that we are very much in favour of postponing the chain clause, as you call it, from the provision to go back from temporary contracts of two years to temporary contracts of three years. We have asked the Minister to make a firm commitment on this, which will determine to a large extent how we will ultimately make our final weighing-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u58	Thank you, Mr. Köhler.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u59	We will continue with legislative proposal 35074, the Labour Market Act in balance. I give the floor to Mrs Oomen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u60	Madam President. Rebalancing the labour market is not only the aim, it is also the title of the law that we are discussing today. That balance is needed. Two years ago, Mrs Sent also talked about this. The WRR presented the report on flexibility in the labour market, which showed that lusts and burdens were unevenly distributed. A call was made at the time to reduce the differences between fixed, flex and zzp. If we look at the Dutch labour market, we see a very low unemployment rate, now adjusted for the season of 3.3%. At the same time, we note that employment does not show structural growth in the share of fixed labour agreements, even though today's media reports a positive turn of events. The government figures show that the number of employees with flexible contracts is currently around 2 million and almost doubled compared to 2003, because that was when people started to measure. Flexible labour is increasingly being used in all sectors of the labour market. Thus, where in 2003 the proportion of permanent employees was still 73%, this has now fallen sharply and is down to 60%. Flexible employment contracts, workers with a temporary contract or call contract andzzp'ers fill the gap in the labour market. In construction, only half of the employees have a fixed contract. In the hospitality industry, that's 30%. In sectors which are not seasonal or cyclical, such as care, government and education, the number of flexible contracts has also increased considerably. What should also be recognised is that young people, those with a less strong labour market position and those with lower education often rely on flexible employment contracts for a very long time, while, as was stated in the WRR report, 80% to 90% of those with such a flexible contract prefer a fixed contract. I would also like to make it very clear that for the CDA group flexibility is not always only negative. It has brought us prosperity, too. Moreover, let us not forget that there are also people who are very consciously opting for flexibility. Among thezzp'ers there are two groups to distinguish. Some of thezzp'ers have scarce knowledge and can therefore consciously opt for self-employment. Another part does not have this scarce knowledge and does not consciously choose to be a zzp'er. The latter group has no protection against dismissal, is not insured for payment of wages and reintegration in the event of illness and does not receive a guaranteed minimum wage. We have to agree that where flexibility is not the driving force for flex orzzp contracts, it is the Dutch legislation that allows employers to avoid risks by offering flexible contracts, costs and risks. This is an undesirable situation for the CDA Group. Many, especially young, people stagnate because of this, where the design of their future is concerned. They cannot buy a house themselves, end up in default when they become uninsured and can hardly or not build up a pension provision. The chance that they can still get a permanent job at an older age decreases in proportion to the climbing of the years. It is therefore a good thing that agreements have been reached in the coalition agreement to create a coherent vision of the labour market. Mr. Chairman. The proposal we are discussing today does not solve all the problems of the full breadth of the labour market, as the government also writes, but takes steps in the area of contract law and the WW which should contribute to a new balance sheet. I don't want to make the minister short. He certainly has an integral vision, but that vision has not, or at least has not, been given an adequate place in the proposals we are discussing today. The package that is now before us is essentially a further amendment to the Work and Security Act, which was already trying to model employment contracts in such a way that there would be a choice for more firm. The evaluation of this law has not been delayed. Mr. Chairman. We see that the government is announcing new policies with regard to thezzp'ers, but that this new policy does not yet have a definitive horizon, either by a date or by proposals. In addition, reference is made to the Borstlap Committee, which is due to come forward this year with a study and an opinion on fundamental questions on the future of regulation of work. However, in his reply, the Minister states that this advice is available for the long term. When we look at the analysis of labour market problems, we see that more fundamental solutions must be sought, going beyond intervention on contracts and in sectors. Mr. Chairman. So far we have lacked a fundamental solution. Employers, and especially SMEs, are taking risks and opting for flexible contracts because the payment of wages in the event of illness and the right of dismissal is so costly. I would like to ask the Minister to respond to this and to take us into account in the possibilities he sees for providing solutions for this too. This would probably lead to more permanent contracts being offered. Madam President. I would now like to address some of the issues that need to be addressed. Let me start with payrolling. The principle that market players should not compete on working conditions is shared by the CDA Group. However, it is doubtful whether the measures now being proposed will also achieve this goal for the payroll sector. De facto, a large part of the payroll will disappear because, in particular, smaller temporary agency organisations..... they do the recruitment and selection but have transferred the legal employership and have it carried out by a payroller.................................................................................................................................................................................................. I also see a shift in the Minister's response. In the Lower House he talks about an active allocation function, but from the answers in the further pleading I understand that each allocation is decisive for the employership. Mr. Chairman. In any case, Payrolling becomes more expensive and its costs will often exceed the cost of an employee in the user. The Council of State cracks critical notes on the workability of the new definition and asks whether the intentions will not lead to avoidance. The definition of payrolling can lead to confusion in practice. Suppose that after a tender work goes from one company to another and that the employees go along. Couldn't that be possible in the future because it's payrolling by definition? Mr Van de Ven has already asked this question. Other temporary workers should be employed and this could threaten the continuity of work. Can the Minister promise that he will have a solution to this problem? The change in the market from payroll to broadcasting is already visible. This leads us to the following question: will the worker be better, and not only in terms of working conditions, if the temporary agency structure is chosen, but also in terms of pension provision? Of course, the StiPP pension is not everything either. But there are other things, such as the lack of HR expertise. It's better secured in a large payroll organization. And what about the payroll pension provision, I ask the Minister, also for the sector he adds at the request of the Chamber? The Minister announces postponement, but is there any possibility of further consultation on the content of the arrangement? Mr. Chairman. I'll go into the call agreements. We question the mandatory offer that an employer must make to the employee after 12 months. That's very nice and very nice, but can it be maintained? I ask this because the consequences of non-compliance lie with the employee. The scheme can also be bypassed by a temporary contract of employment or, here again, the outsourcing of work tozzp'ers. Mr President, then there is the chain clause. I agree with the proposals. Moreover, Cao parties may derogate from this requirement if the intrinsic nature of the operation so requires, but there are no clear criteria for such deviations. Can the Minister give practical expression to these criteria, perhaps on the basis of a few examples? Mr President, then the right of dismissal. Adding the i-ground as a cumulation ground when the previous criteria are not fully met is difficult; we know that. At the same time as easing, a 50% higher transition fee is applied to the application of the cumulation ground. Our question remains: what problem do we solve now, now that judgments of the Supreme Court also show that practice has calmed down? Employees who have been employed for more than ten years I think older workers often pay the price, because the higher remuneration is no longer available to them. Mr President, then the transition fee from day one and not after 24 months. Is this intention aimed at the purpose for which this compensation was conceived, namely to ease the transition from work to work? If you spend only very small sums, I don't think it's gonna make a difference anymore. Mr. Chairman. I come to seasonal work. The premium differentiation for the WW is a complete change of heart. Until now, the WW premium for the first six months was related to the sector to stimulate it and prevent unemployment as much as possible, but now the employment contract for a fixed or indefinite period becomes the basis for the amount of the levy. This particularly affects agriculture and horticulture, but certainly also the catering industry. I can tell you that this law is not understood in the sector. Why not? There's no choice. If an employee is only needed for two or three months, it simply cannot be offered a permanent job, and that is what this law proposes. In the sectors of agriculture, horticulture and catering, where seasonal work is involved, it is not only the increase in the cost of the WW premium; also the transition fee and the measures taken when the call is made will not result in a fixed contract becoming the measure. It will, we believe, mean a flight tozzp-constructions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u61	I am listening with great interest to Mrs Oomen's speech and I have a question to ask her in response to what she has just said. Could it be convinced of the reasonableness of the government's proposal, if there were empirical evidence to support the fact that the categories which it refers to here, let me take the hospitality industry as an example in practice also give rise to higher costs in the sphere of social benefits?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u62	At present, there is a sector-by-sector analysis of how to ensure that as few people as possible are unemployed. There has already been a higher premium in those first six months, and now, taken by the bank, the same higher rate is being imposed everywhere. In these sectors, I mention asparagus farmers and catering, the beach and holidays, there is no possibility of giving people a permanent contract. I think empirical research is very nice, but the measure now before us is not understood and if it is not understood, it leads to evasive behaviour.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u63	I understand that, but the next thing I know, I don't really understand. If there is no possibility to offer a fixed job.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... But if, in practice, this flexible contract gives rise to higher costs, who would bear them?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u64	At present, a higher premium can be levied for six months, but this is related to the industry. What is happening now in this legislation is that you always pay a higher premium because you cannot offer a fixed contract. That is the unjust thing, and that will require a great deal of explanation in the sectors I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u65	I have just heard Mrs Oomen say that especially in the hospitality sector and in agriculture, especially in horticulture, I think that the higher costs of temporary labour would lead to a flight to self-employment or to false self-employment, in my words. I can't quite imagine that. Do you think that the service staff in the hospitality sector will then start to work as self-employed for tax purposes?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u66	As I said at the beginning and as you know, only 30% have a fixed contract in the hospitality sector at the moment. In horticulture you often need two months, up to three months of flexible work to harvest and so on. The intention of the legislator, as laid down here, is that these people should also be given a permanent contract. I don't see that happening. I can see that there are all kinds of other forms, because it is not just about the higher WW premium. A number of measures have been announced to increase costs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u67	Yes, you emphasize that once again, but I had already understood from you that you saw it that way. My question was whether you think that the staff who are going to work in the greenhouses for a few months now, here in the Westland, for example, or the catering staff who only have a temporary contract in the summer, will now work for the law as self-employed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u68	I can't look into a glass ball, but I'm sure there are many who are already working on a self-employed contract at the moment, also in the catering industry and also in agriculture and horticulture. I think that will only be increased. I do not like that, but listen to my speech even more. If that's all right, Madam President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u69	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u70	Mr. Chairman. As far as we are concerned, the assessment that we as the First Chamber give to proposals of law is not a political one. First of all, even when I look at this law, it is a test of legality, feasibility and enforcement. The CDA Group raises questions about the feasibility and enforcement of the proposal. After all, some of the proposals made in this law have the potential to avoid behavior. This bill does not end the way tozzp or sham-zzp. Do we not therefore miss the objective we are aiming for? The main consultant, the Council of State, recommends that the draft law be taken back and that a waterbed effect be created tozzp. The Minister has already said in his replies that the government cannot make quantitative statements about the expected impact of the policy changes. It does not necessarily mean that the share of fixed contracts is increasing. A turnaround in the business cycle can reduce the number of fixed contracts, regardless of the policy pursued. I will take that out of the further reply. Madam President. Is an extra flight tozzp not undesirable for the most vulnerable in the labour market? Should we not, therefore, first speed up the resolution of the problem of self-employed workers, which has been dragging on for far too long? Madam President. In the written procedure, the CDA Group proposed that the vulnerable position of self-employed persons who are not insured for the risks of incapacity for work should be resolved in a first step by including self-employed persons in the existing IVA, the Income Provision Scheme Fully Invalid. I would like to stress that this is a first step, but that would certainly mean that this group has been very helpful in covering the greatest risk: irreversible incapacity for work. Mr. Chairman. The Council of State criticises the waterbed effect of this law. The Minister did not reject this criticism, but we must take it seriously. As far as the CDA Group is concerned, it must at the very least be the case that we are not only going to argue for the long term, but that we are really going to do something about the legal status of self-employed people. The growing number of self-employed workers, possibly as a result of this law, requires action to solve this disability problem of the self-employed person. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u71	I can well recognise myself in the last part of Mrs Oomen's speech. However, the CDA Group's proposal to provide public insurance for long-term disabled persons, which would therefore apply to self-employed persons, has already been somewhat ignored by the Minister. Now you're bringing it back here. My question is what you want with that. Do you wish to provoke this Chamber to rule? We'll be happy to cooperate. Or do you want to say it again, to let the Minister put it aside again?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u72	The point is that it is serious to us and that we want the Minister to take that up. That is what I have asked him twice in the written preparation and today I am asking again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u73	Yes, yes, we all want the Minister to answer our questions. My question is...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u74	Something has to be done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u75	Mrs. Oomen, let Mr. Köhler speak, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u76	My question to Mrs Oomen is now being raised again by her. Does she now think that this should come out of this debate? If the Minister does not promise that he will do so in the short term, will she allow a majority of the Chamber to give a ruling on this, together calling on the Minister to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u77	Every statement is very nice, but the initiative lies with the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u78	But it is not unusual for the Chamber, if the Minister does not want to take an initiative, to call on the Minister to do so. This is usually the result if the majority of the Chamber wants something and the government is not ready to do so for whatever reason. Then the Chamber can call on the Minister to do so. This point is obviously very difficult for you, and we think it is right. I therefore invite you, after the Minister's reply, to come forward with a proposal in which this Chamber makes that ruling.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u79	There's one thing that's bothering me. That is that we think that if there is only one motion, we have moved the government to do exactly what we want. A motion deflation is no use to us. What's good for me is a minister who's gonna promise us he's gonna do this real quick. Then, after the answer, we can always look at the state of play.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u80	I would like to congratulate Mrs Oomen-Ruijten on the attention she is calling for on escape routes in this legislative proposal and on the attention she is calling for for vulnerablezzp'ers. It is quite right that these points should be brought to the attention of the House. The question I have to her is the question I have also asked Mr Köhler. This is about Mr Van der Ven's proposal that the measures relating to payrolling should be introduced later. What is her assessment, what is her opinion: how does she see this proposal?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u81	I await the Minister's reply to that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u82	Could I ask Mrs Oomen-Ruijten whether she thinks that this proposal will strengthen or weaken the balance on the labour market if all measures continue except for the measures on payroll workers?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u83	I thought I explained that this proposal does not bring the labour market balance forward because there are too many opportunities for avoidance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u84	A remark made by Mrs Oomen remained with me, namely that she did not give a political assessment of this bill. How are we supposed to explain that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u85	How do you describe that? Because that's not what we're in the First Chamber for. We have laws to review. That's what we're doing here. So it is not a political assessment, but an implementation test: can we achieve the objective set by this law and can we maintain it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u86	It is precisely the things that we have to do here, but this law will not be different from others. I noticed that you explicitly say in this bill that it is not a political assessment. I thought maybe there's something else in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u87	I would like to say to Mr Schalk that we have doubts about feasibility, enforcement and the evasiveness in it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u88	Thank you, Mrs Oomen. I give the floor to Mr Ganzevoort.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u89	Thank you, Mr President. Home nurses who start for themselves, meal delivery workers who sometimes have to play against will and thanks entrepreneurs, journalists and scientists who depend on temporary projects: the labour market is changing under the influence of the economy, demography and technology. This also requires changes in legislation in order to optimally protect the employee, without undermining the functioning and survival of organisations and companies. On the other hand, I am a caller in this debate today; Mr Lintmeijer could not be here, but he asked me four days in advance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u90	Payrolling?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u91	Well, I wish. In my daily work I am constantly dealing with the employers' side of the problem we are discussing today, and I am therefore a little experienced, but also involved, in the sense of our code of integrity; you know that. Mr. Chairman. Income, security of living and education should be accessible to everyone in the Netherlands, but unfortunately that is not the case. We're the frontrunner in the number ofzzp'ers. We have too many people on a flexible contract, with too little security of a decent income. The number of working poor has doubled since 1990. No less than one in seven employees is one of the "uncertain workers" in the Netherlands. That is the painful background to the discussion on fixed and flex, which has led, among other things, to the question of what the Dutch acceptable level should be. Then what are "decent industrial relations," regardless of the question of what construction you do your job in? We look forward to hearing the Minister's views on this Dutch level. We also see the search for this balance in this whole proposal. This bill indeed contains good parts, such as, for us, the premium differentiation at the WW, which makes flexwork more expensive, or a transition fee from day one. This indeed protects workers and stimulates employers to act better. But choices are also being made that my group has serious doubts about. The relaxation of the right of dismissal is difficult for us. Why does the government suppose that relaxing the right of dismissal and making flex work more expensive in itself will actually lead to a better balance on the labour market? Are the current dismissal rules the main obstacle to permanent contracts? Will employers not seek new ways of avoiding fixed contracts, as has happened with previous measures? Do they really let themselves be scared by a little more WW premium? With the introduction of the cumulative i-ground we go back to the time for the Work and Security Act. Experts expect employers to make massive use of this cumulation ground. How does the Minister see this? The transition fee is then set at 150%. This suggests that cumulation appears to be a slightly less appropriate form than one full-time dismissal ground. Wouldn't it make more sense not to lay down the level of the transition fee in rules, but to leave it to the court's careful weighing, I ask the Minister. A fixed standard not only weakens the negotiating position of workers, but also the ability of judges to tailor-made work. Then about the older employees with a long employment. By the SAB, the higher transition fee after an employment period of more than ten years expires, and also the transitional right. Together with the cumulation ground, this makes it easier to dismiss older workers without proper remuneration. We all know that this group often finds it difficult to find new jobs and that retraining is not always an option. Is there any balance for them, or do they only have to do with deterioration? What does the Minister have to offer this vulnerable group? Mr. Chairman. It's clear that it's going to be a bit less solid, but is flex also becoming less flex? Which brings us to thezzp'ers. Making flex work more expensive to make giving a permanent employment attractive can work, but only if employers cannot escape in bogus-zzp-structures. But there are no measures in this area and better legislation has been postponed. We can therefore predict a large waterbed effect even more than we do; that is already predicted, which does not balance the labour market, but increases the division of opportunity and vulnerability. Last week CBS announced that the number of people with disability insurance fell from 23% in 2011 to 19% in 2016. The Netherlands has about 1.2 millionzzp'ers. ING predicted that this number would increase by several hundred thousand. According to research by ESB, prosperity creation in the Netherlands will be under pressure as a result. The Minister knows that. He therefore promised a package of measures in the future, but we think that is a great risk. We need to see whether this package of measures is going to look exactly what it is going to look like, because of course we do not know that at that time we are going to have a majority in the Chamber. In addition, the negative effects of the SAB will have already arisen. The right time would have been now, because then we could discuss an integrated approach. What guarantees can the Minister give that the package of measures will be timely and effective? How is he going to prevent the waterbed effect? A decisive answer to this question is very important for my group in the weighing of this bill, precisely because, as Mrs Oomen has just said, the possibility of escape is an important part of the enforcement and feasibility of this law. Mr. Chairman. The effectiveness of the bill and the possibility of preventing unintended or even counterproductive effects lead to great restraint on the part of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance. For example, the right of a call force to refuse a last-minute call sounds very sympathetic, but the employer will simply not call that employee anymore. The obligation of a fixed hour offer after a year's employment sounds nice, but the employer will ensure that the contract is terminated within the year. The possibility for the employee to claim small claims as wages over late cancelled working days sounds nice, but the employer will often go free because the cost of obtaining the right for the employee is too high. Sympathetic proposals which are counterproductive or which cannot be enforced or implemented should not be given the status of law. It seems that the Minister also acknowledges this in the further reply. He seems to argue that the normalising effect of the measure would in itself provide sufficient guarantee. My group fears that this is somewhat naive. Does the Minister have examples of laws where only the so-called normative effect in itself has already brought about effective behavioural change? If so, what laws have they been? Then payrolling. More rights for payroll workers sounds good, but how can the payroller enforce those rights in terms of working conditions, termination of work, illness and reintegration? How does the Minister maintain that right to the same conditions of employment for payrollers? What is the role of any industry-cao? What exactly applies if the user is not bound by the collective agreement? Who determines which companies are relevant to the comparison? What happens if there is no collective agreement and therefore we do not see the working conditions of other companies because of business sensitive information? Please comment on how thorough and firm these conditions are. We read today that payroll companies are also ready to switch to temporary agency structures. Does the Minister also fear the rise of fakes? In that case, wouldn't temporary workers also deserve an improvement in rights? Yes, payrolling can take care of small businesses in pay administration, reintegration and pay transfer in case of illness, but that can also be done without changing the legal employership. By the way, not only small companies use payrolling, but also large companies. They wouldn't need that anyway. All in all, this raises the question of whether we should still want payrolling. Or are we following Belgium and Germany with a ban? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. My group is convinced that there is indeed a need to adapt legislation to the circumstances. But the question is whether this law is the right answer. I have raised a number of serious concerns. My group is also surprised by proposals for radical changes in dismissal law, while the evaluation of WWZ andzzp legislation is still lacking. How can this proposal lead to a balance if the evaluation is not yet in place and the waterbed is ready? In short, how does that all relate to each other? Is enforcement on a number of undesirable elements sufficient and possible? Or does this law itself lack the integrated approach needed for a real improvement in the labour market? We look forward to answering the questions and then take stock of our own.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u92	I would like to congratulate Mr Ganzevoort on his work on calls, which is of high quality. I have two questions for him. I have also put the first question to a number of other spokesmen. How does Mr Ganzevoort view the proposal that the measures relating to payrollers should be introduced later?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u93	In light of what I said, I don't think that's a good idea. We're critical of the payroll. In itself, we see some improvements in these measures, but we are concerned about the effectiveness of these measures. But I do not think it would be a positive solution to allow it to be introduced later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u94	My second question concerns the proper attention given by Mr Ganzevoort tozzp'ers and his appeal to the Minister to inform us in good time and in detail. Does he agree with my group that the Labour Market Act does not balance the labour market until we have a clear picture of the measures taken in relation tozzp'ers?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u95	One big question that I have, of course, raised on that point is whether the high risk of leaking out and fleeing into zzp structures or actually fake-zzp structures does not mean that this law should be linked and that an integrated approach is needed to bring together the problem ofzzp and the rest of the labour market, as it is now regulated here. I am very curious about the Minister's answer, but you will hear my questions and my words that I find it very unfortunate that these two are not discussed together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u96	Thank you, Mr. Ganzevoort. Does one of the Members still wish to speak in the first term? That is not the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-05-20-eerstekamer-3.u97	After dinner break we continue with the treatment of the Labour Market Act in balance. After the suspension, we will proceed with legislative proposal 35013.
