ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the budget for Education, Culture and Science (35300-VIII), the draft budget for the Ministry of Education, Culture and Science for 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u2	Ministers, which one of you can I give the floor to? I see that's the Minister of Education, Culture and Science. I am happy to give you the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u3	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank Members for their first-term contributions. Mr Slob and I have simply divided the input according to our portfolios. I think you understand that logic. Some of you asked about all kinds of appreciations of our budget, about the part that it represents of the rich budget and what we thought of the size of our budget in relation to the total of the Millions Note. Mr Van Apeldoorn rightly said: this is not a debate with the Minister of Finance. The cabinet speaks with one voice, so we have nothing to add or to change on what was exchanged during the General Financial Reviews. Some of them also asked what we found of the trade-offs that were made in them. We do not, of course, make any communication about this. You may read that in the minutes of the Council of Ministers in 25 years' time. There were also a number of questions about the investment fund. Let me answer that straight away. What is this investment fund going to mean for the budget of Education? I will also endorse what the Minister of Finance said earlier. You have, of course, seen the announcement of this in the Millions Note. However, the decision on this fund has yet to be taken. You have, of course, also been able to take note of the growth letter. It does give some direction for that. However, some decision on the financing of the investment fund has not yet taken place. You'll hear about that as soon as you can. Then, of course, we'll talk about that further. Mr. Chairman. In particular, Mr Van Apeldoorn spoke about higher education and the financial situation there. For example, you have also mentioned the workload in higher education, which is indeed high there. You have clearly seen that I have also recognised it in the strategic agenda. You rightly said that there is a relationship between the funding system in higher education and the pressure that has arisen there. That is why we have already started to shift funding from student numbers to a larger fixed base. You also know that we are currently conducting further research into the costs of higher education. These results will come in 2020. My intention is then to look at how we can base higher education funding less on the number of students and make it more stable on the basis of the fixed base, also because I firmly believe that this will help to tackle the workload, for example.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u4	Do I understand correctly that the Minister has dealt with the issue of investment funds?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u5	Of course, because more than I have said about it is not to be said at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u6	That can't be true. In recent months there have been discussions on the quality of education. Well, that's at your service, you might say. The cabinet is aware of that. No, the cabinet itself came up with a growth letter the last week. It mentions education by name and by name. I have taken out a passage on fundamental education, which is of great concern to my group and to many other groups. I suspect that this also applies to the rulers. Then I want to hear more about it. That doesn't say "innocent." Then I assume that this has financial implications and that this is therefore relevant to the question we have to answer today in the context of the 2020 budget: how much money are we going to make available to education? I would like to make that clear. That's not so crazy, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u7	No, but today we are talking about the 2020 budget and it is as it is. In addition, you have read very well in the growth letter that it describes very well how important education, foundational education, higher education and scientific research is for the country's growth potential. But the government still has to decide what that will mean for investment from an investment fund. You know very well how that works. Before that decision is completed and before the Minister of Finance has informed your Chamber of this, I am not going to anticipate it. I don't think that's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u8	Mr President, I note...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u9	A point of order. If this is not part of the budget, as the Minister says, it is not within the order of this debate either. Then I am obliged to bring you back to the order of the debate, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure which your group has also supported.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u10	That could be the case if it is finally established that the investment fund we are about to hear about is going to pay €0 for education. Then we'll have another conversation. But the cabinet is ahead of this. The cabinet sent us a letter. This is where education is appointed. So it's been discussed. It's been decided, too. It is a letter from the Investment Fund. It's not just a vague text from the cabinet. It says it for a political reason, I suppose. It's been mapped out in the cabinet. We are told that education is also being looked at. Then I can answer the question as to what it means in budgetary terms...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u11	Mr. Vendrik, then it's the question...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u12	And that it also means something in the budgetary sense,...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u13	The question then is whether this letter is part of the budget, yes or no. If so, he is part of this debate. If not, he falls outside the scope of this debate. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u14	I understand Mr Vendrik's question, but at the moment I cannot answer it. There is still a decision to be made on how the intentions in the growth letter are translated into concrete investments. If this were part of the 2020 budget, you could have read it earlier in the 2020 Millions Note, but it was not in it. It is clear that we will decide on this further. You very well saw the comment in the growth letter on the importance of investing in education for growth capacity in the Netherlands. There's a reason he's standing there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u15	All right, then, let me conclude by saying that there will be extra money for education. I'm glad.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u16	I would like to continue with what the Minister has just spoken about: the perverse output financing model in scientific education. I note that the Minister shares the analysis with us and with many in scientific education and WOinaction. I am sincerely pleased about that; I very much welcome that. But then the question is why it has to take so long. The Minister announced in the strategic agenda that he would examine this further in 2020. Then something comes out of that investigation and then we look at what further steps could be taken. In the meantime, we are at the end of the journey of this cabinet. But we already know for a long time that this system is not working properly, that it is a well-spent performance funding that encourages unhealthy competition between universities, where universities compete on market share, and that the quality of education is ultimately affected.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u17	Since I have already noted that the funding, which is very much inspiring for more students, led to results that we do not consider desirable for the system, I have set up the Van Rijn Committee to look at alternative funding. We did a first shift. The Van Rijn Committee also noted that we do not really know how much it costs. If we look at higher education, it's gonna cost us what we put in it right now. The committee's intrusive recommendation was to do good research into the actual cost structure. That's what we're doing right now. I hope to have the first results before the summer. That's really fast, which is quite a complicated investigation. That is why it is also in the strategic agenda that I intend to look at how we can ensure greater stability in funding. I am very pleased that Mr Van Apeldoorn agrees with that wish here, because that also means that I have my support. It is my firm intention, as soon as possible, to move towards more fixed feet in the funding. Also for a number of small courses, which we find valuable for this country and for the quality and versatility of our science, but where the past year has been quite troubled because of the small numbers of students, this will mean that we will see how we can ensure more stable ground beneath our feet. We're in the middle of this operation. I would also like us to be able to do so more quickly, but we really need to have a clear view of the cost structure first. It's a lot of hits you have to make in the funding. It's a lot of money, so you have to do it carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u18	In any case, I am pleased to note that we will also hold the Minister to this fact that the Minister has announced that it is not just a question of research, but that concrete steps will also be taken in terms of policy during this cabinet period. That's what we're looking forward to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u19	Yes, and I thank Mr Van Apeldoorn for his support. I would like to make a few comments, because he was right to talk about workload. The funding is going to help us in this, but we also need to do a number of other things. For this reason, I have taken a first step and there will be a follow-up in the form of a shift from the second to the first money flow. This also gives more funding directly to the universities. In addition, I am waiting for an opinion on how quickly it will come from the VSNU, the NWO and the Academy on reducing the application pressure. What can we do to reduce the application pressure? You can see there's a lot of tension on that. I understand the justified frustration of a lot of scientists that the chances of your application being honored are really low. We really need to do something about that. In addition, we look at another system of recognition and appreciation. The sector has offered me a really good plan for this. We're gonna see how we can take steps in that, so that you don't have to do everything as an associate at a higher education institution and, if you have a major educational task, you also have to make sure you do enough about science because otherwise you won't be recognised or appreciated. We're going to see how we can put the appreciation for science alongside the appreciation for education, impact and leadership. We need to look at that in an equal way. All these steps together must lead to a reduction in pressure. You also asked me about what I said about the need for money. Let me say the following. In fact, I only follow what the Prime Minister said at this point. He says that we have committed ourselves internationally to the Lisbon objectives and we must keep an eye on them. We are now at 2.18 and have to go to 2.5 if you look at the structure of the Dutch economy. I just figured out the difference between 2.18 and 2.5. That's 1 billion for public investment. That's a very clear calculation. If we as a country want to keep high ambitions in higher education and science, then we will have to take that step once. That's exactly what I said. I'm glad you're asking me to do that, because I'll be able to recognize it in this house after the mp. I assume that we will be discussing the strategic agenda in detail in this House. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Apeldoorn also made a comment on interest rates. On the 226 million, like the Finance Minister, I say here: it is technically parked on the OCW budget and is not invested in substantive measures. A decision will have to be taken at another time on exactly how and where it will be completed. It is now technically parked without any content. I can't say more than that at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u20	As long as it is technically parked on the Education budget, it will be possible at some point to cut back on the 226 million. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u21	Those are like-dan questions. You also know that, as a minister, it is not wise to answer that. It is now technically parked and a decision will have to be taken at some point on its implementation. That can happen in many ways.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u22	Shouldn't it have been parked somewhere else technically? Then we wouldn't have to have this little debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u23	I have the idea that you think so, but this is the deal I made with the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u24	Proceed, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u25	I think I have answered the questions asked about my portfolio. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u26	Thank you, Minister. Then the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the honourable Members for their first contribution and congratulate Mrs Nanninga on her maiden speech. Most of the questions that have been asked to me are on a subject that should have a lot of attention: the shortage of staff, particularly in primary education. Mr Van Kesteren, Mr Van Apeldoorn and Mr Vendrik and Mrs Vos have asked a large number of their questions on this subject in their term. I understand that, because this is an issue that concerns us very much. We are dealing in our country with a strongly shrinking labour market. We can even see that shrinkage increasing every quarter. On the one hand there is a very nice development, because we see that unemployment is falling. But we also see that the job vacancy rate is increasing again. This is a major burden on our society, on care, on the safety sector, on construction, on the catering industry, but also on education. I dare say that it is perhaps the most visible in education. When there are shortages in education, there are situations where classes are empty because there is no teacher and no replacement. An x-number of children would like to receive education at that time. Sometimes you can catch it, but sometimes you can't. So these are very poignant situations. The cabinet in which I am now allowed to assume responsibility for the foundational education has gone further on the approach formulated at the end of 2017, in the tail of the previous cabinet, of VVD and Party of Labour. That is an approach that took place through four lines of action, with the underlying idea that there is no single solution to this major issue. We will therefore have to try in various ways to interest young people, as well as older people, in the wonderful profession of teacher and actively promote the creation of empty areas, also because of the additional ageing of the population. Mr. Chairman. The lines of action meant, very briefly, that we felt it was important to further increase the influx of teacher training courses, that we wanted to promote the side-influx, that we wanted to retain teachers for education, that we wanted to activate the silent reserve, that we wanted to improve remuneration and provide career prospects and that we wanted to organise education differently. This approach has thus already been implemented at the end of the previous cabinet period and continued in this cabinet period. I would almost say that this has been done with even more urgency, given the developments in the labour market. There's one difference from that cabinet period. Additional structural money has now become available through the coalition agreement. This is money that has been made available, in particular, to improve working conditions and, most of the 700 million, to reduce the workload. It has been my approach to make sure that this money would end up in the places where it was supposed to end up as soon as possible: with the teachers and with the schools. That wasn't self-evident. You may remember the financial states that were part of the coalition agreement. Some of these funds were not committed until later years. But we worked hard in the first year to bring forward a large part. The vast majority of this additional structural money compared to the previous cabinet period has now been incorporated into the budgets and has already ended up in the place where it should end up. Are we satisfied with the approach? Let me be very clear. I was given the opportunity today to bring out the new labour market figures. Every year this happens in December. We see that the approach that started in the previous cabinet period and was taken up by this cabinet with force, is now beginning to work in the figures. There are estimates for the future for the short and long term. The short-term estimate shows that in 2024, with the approach as it has now been implemented, 1,300 FTE has been added. So they go from the forecasted deficit we assumed last year. It is of course very nice to see that it works through. The figures for 2019 have not yet been taken into account. These are the figures for 2018. In the past year, we have seen a further increase in the number of young people who have opted for the pabo in the entrance and transit of teacher training courses. We've been asked if men have applied as well. Yeah, men, too. We see that a growing number of boys, men, choose this beautiful profession. That's good. We also see that there has been an unprecedented growth in the number of side-instromers in the last year. Those are numbers we never thought we'd realize. There were about 2,000 side-instromers in the last year. They have not yet been incorporated into the labour market estimate that has come out today. It is very good news that people who may have taken another first turn in life, now at a second or third turn say: we do feel for that education. In addition, a large effort has been made by the Replacement Fund and the Participation Fund. We see that some of the people who in the past entered the super-statutory scheme, the super-statutory WW of education, are being redirected back to the labour market. We also need them very much. About 800 people have returned to the path of education thanks to these efforts. These are in themselves very good results. Mr. Chairman. This also applies to the negotiations concluded last week on the collective agreement for primary education. They weren't closed yet. There had been negotiations a number of times. They'd have broken again. They've been re-arrested recently. There is a great deal of appreciation and thanks towards Mrs Hamer, who has played a major role as mediator. A negotiating agreement was concluded last week, which will enable the growth of salaries already waged last year to continue. 4.5% extra growth has been agreed. I would also remind you of the previous agreement of last October. 8.5% plus 1% is 9.5%, plus 4.5%, so we reach 14%. Those are very nice increases in salaries. In addition, there are three incidental amounts, the first being paid last year and the other two going to the people at the beginning of next year. Those are therefore nice details of the approach to the shortage of teachers. I'm happy about that, but I'm gonna put a comma later and say a "but," because there's more to be said about it. At least these are results I would like to share with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u28	Returning to what the minister was just talking about, the lack of teachers is a little less rapid than previously predicted. I have only been able to hear this from the media. What I understand from it is that now the prognosis is that in five years there will be a deficit of 2,000 fte on top of the current deficit. This means that the shortage of teachers is not only very large now and is a huge problem. We now see students or whole classes being sent home and even schools closing for one or two weeks. This shortage of teachers will not only persist over the next five years, but will even continue to increase. Although less than expected, which the Minister is happy with, but apart from the question of whether this is entirely to be written on the cabinet's account, I wonder if this is not a bit like: the house is on fire, but the flames are slightly less high than we had previously expected. So if I were the minister, maybe I'd put that happiness into perspective.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u29	I didn't put the word "bliss" in my mouth. During the previous cabinet period there were estimates of the staff shortage, because it is wider than just teachers. It is also about school leaders and educational support staff. At that time, the figures were many times higher than they are now. This has also been the starting point for this broad approach. If, after one or two years, we see that at least we can get the forecasts for the future down, then that does not mean that suddenly there is no problem and then there will be no problem. What we do see is that we try to interest people in education in different ways. We also see that there is a growth in the number of teachers and teaching staff in a declining number of pupils. That's a hopeful sign in a pretty dark time, but at the same time that's no reason to sit back and think we're here. Because, indeed, there is still a big problem, especially in the big cities, and we will have to keep on going. I will also answer a number of questions about this later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u30	The Minister is now discussing that it is decreasing. For the record, it is a good thing to say that it is not the case that the shortage of teachers is reduced, whether due to government policy or not. That would be something, in the sense that it is not reduced to zero, what we should actually have, but that it is decreasing. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So that's something else for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u31	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u32	The question is whether the Minister can respond to this. Is it true what I am saying, that not the shortage of teachers is falling but that the increase in the deficit is falling and the big problem that we still have and which teachers and schools face every day will only increase in the coming years?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u33	Estimates always have the disclaimer "if nothing happens." The same applies to the previous estimates. Well, something did happen. We've been working hard and we see more people coming in to work in education. That's one side of the answer. So we see that the number of teachers is rising, and so is the teaching staff, despite the fact that there is a shrinkage in the number of pupils. That's good news. On the other hand, we see that, partly because of an increasingly tight labour market, I have just indicated that you see that this is getting worse every quarter, and that the deficits are still unabated, and that we therefore have no reason to set the flag. We will have to continue with this approach, because we do not want to accept estimates of this kind either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u34	So, in my view, the inevitable conclusion can only be that much more needs to be done to ensure, not only that the shortage of teachers is not rising any faster, but that it is actually falling, I say to the Minister through the President. Does the Minister agree with me that much more needs to be done and that what has now been set in motion is not enough? The prognosis is slightly better than it was, but it is still that the teacher deficit, which is already a huge problem for primary education, will increase even more in the next five years if policies remain unchanged.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u35	We will therefore have to continue with the same approach as we have. So from the things that go well, we have to hope that they go well. For example, we see this with the influx to the pabo. For the second year in a row we see a significant increase. There are also elements in the approach to the shortage of teachers that are even less developed and where there is still much to gain. We will have to bet on that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u36	I would indeed like to comment on that last point. My colleague Mr Van Apeldoorn has already mentioned that there is actually only a slight reduction in the deficit. So my question is, what else can the Minister do? I do miss two very important parts. You say we can do more. I have mentioned a number of economists' arguments. For example, economist Maarten Schinkel said: compared to the market sector, especially after the HOS operation, there is obviously a big gap. Is the Minister willing to do something about that too? The other instrument that is likely to help in the whole package that has been deployed since the previous cabinet is, for example, the reduction of that gap between primary and secondary education. Is the Minister thinking about these two measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u37	Later in my speech, I will come back very specifically to a number of questions that have been raised on this subject. They are, of course, also part of our approach. The HOS is actually from the eighties. I was, by the way, the first generation to deal with this. Two members of the Chamber, too. Well, then you know a little about our age. There was a reasonable review later on. That is also secondary education. What we are talking about, of course, because that is where the shortages are coming the hardest, especially in the big cities, is primary education. But let us also keep an eye on secondary education, but then we talk more in the sphere of deficit and what we need to do for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u38	One more question. I'm sure we'll get back to you. The collective agreement that still has to be voted on, do you think that is a step in the direction, or is that what I have been calculating, just an inflation correction?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u39	No, Mr President, I would like to say to Mrs Vos that this is a very nice addition to the collective agreement that was concluded last year. So soon in a row. This is meant until November 2020, if I have seen it correctly. That means a nice increase in salaries as well. Moreover, a large number of other agreements have been made around them, which I believe are very good news for the people who work in education. I'd like to give them my heartfelt thanks. Part of it is also paid with money that has been made available by the cabinet through the covenant, which I will come back to separately.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u40	Mrs Vos, third on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u41	Mr President, it is true that it is the last. There are some nice and interesting things in it, but does the Minister agree with me that, when it comes to the percentage increase, it is no more than 2.7%? That's just inflation, if you smear it over the number of months that this collective agreement is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u42	When I look at when last year's collective agreement was concluded and at its duration, supplemented by this collective agreement... I would like to give them my heartfelt thanks, as you yourself have quite rightly pointed out in your speech, Mrs Vos, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that there has also been a proper period of zero-lines, which is, moreover, wider in the public sector, not only in education. We can now make great leaps, not only for teachers, but also for school leaders, who also deserve this very much, and also for educational support staff. I am grateful for the fact that there is now, in the end, an agreement. I also hope, of course, that this will receive the support of the grassroots.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u43	I hear the Minister talking about measures to seduce people from outside education to work in education. But I do not hear the Minister talking about structural changes in education, and about what he thinks he's doing about educational supporters with educational qualifications, who often add to the workload for the classroom. To what extent do you legitimize the salary increase for teachers, especially in primary education, in which the teachers also communicate outside the classroom with an educational competence, which actually nullifies the mood and the temptation to return to the classroom? What do you think of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u44	I would like to refer to the figures, including those relating to the interest of educational support staff, particularly those who are teaching assistants, in order to move on to the profession of teacher. We also see this growth in the number of people reporting to us because we also support it financially, just like the side-inflow. There have been even more applications in the last year than there was a budget. This means that we are going to make money available to some of these people at the beginning of 2020; new rounds, new opportunities. It is important to keep an eye on this group too, and also to put it in a position where they can do their work, in support of the teachers and where possible growing towards the beautiful profession of teacher.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u45	It is quite right that there should be teachers in the classroom who are actually active in the primary process. There's nothing to do with that, and I'm sure that should happen. I am only talking about a very large and increasingly expanding group of other educational supporters. It is the ambition of a lot of people for the class to get into that group because it gives less stress, is less stressful and also generates a higher salary, while it is also good on your resume. That is what I referred to in my speech. How do you feel about that? How do you propose to tackle that problem, which is actually in education, so that a lot of people from that group are ready to do work for the class again, in smaller classes and less stressful? That's the best thing you can do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u46	I love it when people choose the profession of teacher and want to grow from other positions in education. I do not think they do that because it is good on their resume but because they have a heart for children and can also make an extra contribution from that position. In addition, we must also be careful about the people who continue to work in support, and we must try to get new people available again. I see a huge growth. Let's call the number equal. In two years, 18% of the support staff have been added to primary education. That's unprecedented. That's fantastic good news. Part of this has been paid out of the workload that this cabinet has made available, the 430 million, most of which have since gone to the schools. When I go to work in schools, I am sometimes literally introduced to people who are said to be 'of the pressure equipment'. All that has become extra hands in the school. That's good news, because it's very important. I think that is what Mr Van Kesteren is referring to. These people have a very special and important place in support.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u47	Then I suggest we get the minister back on his feet. Of course, we can come back to this in the second term. Mr. Van Kesteren, you have one more pointy question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u48	I will make the problem concrete again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u49	Mr. Van Kesteren, may I ask you to return to this in the second term?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u50	May I ask one more question, Mr. Chairman? I'm allowed to ask three questions, aren't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u51	You can if you have a short question, but your statements are really meant for the second term. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u52	Good. Imagine: there's disease at a school, and there's a class to be divided. There are five staff with educational competence who are concerned about the distribution of pupils. How wonderful it would be if these people would each take two students in their office to get through the day, which would also relieve that teacher. How would you feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u53	I have the impression that Mr Van Kesteren is making a bit of a caricature of what reality is in schools. What I see is that all sails really need to be added, especially when suddenly there is a breakdown and there is no replacement because the replacement pools are empty. The reason for this is, of course, that these people have been given a permanent job elsewhere. Then I see the school leaders coming into full position to join in, to take lessons, to take care of groups. We also see that the support staff are involved, but this can only be done under the responsibility of a qualified teacher. This is also an important benchmark for us in all the proposals that are now being put forward in the sense of: can we do this, can we? We really want to guard the quality with each other. The pupils are entitled to this, but so are those who work with them. Mr. Chairman. Then, following on from the questions that Mrs Fox has just asked me. I am quite happy that the approach works, that you see that more people become interested in education and report to the schools and the schools. Those numbers are high, but I just said we're not gonna stick out the flag. If we look at education in a broad sense, we can see what is currently going on in the labour market. If we look at the future, we still see the estimates that are now available, even though those estimates have become less. Then we still see a very serious situation. This situation is sometimes quite magnified, especially in the big cities. By the way, we do not see this everywhere in the big cities, but in very specific neighbourhoods. The concern of Mrs Vos and others is also my concern: that is not good for promoting equality of opportunity. In fact, if we allow that to happen, it will increase the odds. We don't want that. That is also the reason why I myself said quite quickly: the approach we now know with the lines of action, all the good things and the money, all good, but it will have to be done in those cities and in those regions. What's going to happen there? Much more cooperation is needed, including across administrative boundaries. That's not exactly a natural reflex of education. One is often very busy with one's own school or schools. That is quite understandable, by the way. There has always been a bit of competition between schools. Because, yeah, those students have to choose something, and you still want them to come to you. So with us the grass is greener than with the neighbors, say: join us. You also know all the actions around it when these students have to sign up. We are now beyond that stage in the sense that each school naturally has the right to offer education from its own background and identity, but there is also a collective responsibility for providing education in a city and in a region. That is why we have promoted this cooperation. That's what we did financially. Mr Vendrik asked a question about the money for the big cities, which I gave priority to. That's the one million. We've already given it to them in the past year. We have said right now for two years ahead that they will retain that money. This money can therefore be used to encourage cooperation, to ensure cooperation and to make joint plans for action at the moment when it is really about the shoes and the deficits are very large. That money is properly entered in Article 9 of the budget, labour market and human resources policies. We have now committed it and it has also been amended in the House of Representatives. Until 2022, this money is simply guaranteed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u54	I'm really bad at math, but how can more collaboration lead to more teachers? I know about all these schools that there's a shortage of teachers. They do something for each other every now and then, so it's just a zerosum game. Working together also places an extra burden on schools, because it is already an incredible consultation circus between all those school boards. How does that lead to a solution or a reduction in the shortage of teachers?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u55	Then I would advise Mrs Vos to take a look, including in Amsterdam, where it has been picked up very quickly. It's not just a collaboration between school boards. It is also a collaboration with the municipality, which also bears a responsibility. In Amsterdam, for example, you can see that the problem of the housing market is so big that teachers sometimes go outside the city, where they can live cheaper. Meanwhile, they can choose from all kinds of jobs, so they leave town for that reason. You will also have to do something in this kind of policy, and Amsterdam is doing the same thing. It is also a collaboration with teacher training, so that they are well connected to what is happening in schools and also the training of not only young teachers, but also the side-intromers is in line with what is happening in the school. Working together is incredibly important. We can even see that in a city like Amsterdam there are just differences, that there are deficits in one place and sometimes people about them in another place that sounds a little weird, and that sometimes they don't know about each other. Much more will have to be exchanged and supported, not only in the city of Amsterdam. This is also a collective responsibility borne by regions. It is incredibly important to deal with this, also within the framework of the approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u56	I still can't see the material that, through cooperation, you get affordable houses for teachers for example. That's a big problem. It is one of the reasons why there are very few teachers in the big cities. What about surpluses in the big cities? I think the big problem is that there are just too few teachers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u57	Sometimes it just happens that the match isn't right. Sometimes it is possible to give people who can't go to a certain place a place in another place in the city. I'm not gonna make it any bigger than it is, but any person who ends up somewhere between shore and ship is one too many. But cooperation also means that recruitment is being taken into account together and that image campaigns are being carried out jointly to indicate: people, come to us! In Amsterdam, large posters have been hung to recruit side-instromers. That was a collective action of education in Amsterdam. Cooperation means, for example, that agreements are also made to prevent hiring through temporary employment agencies. Of course, one has to work in one's own school. I shall come back later to the whole specific situation of the school which let the students do things in a different place last week and has started working on this big issue themselves. But one must also look each other over administrative boundaries and feel a shared responsibility for this great social issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u58	Mrs. Fox, for the third time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u59	I may understand that example of a joint advertising campaign, but next year there will be a shortage of 350 teachers or teachers in Amsterdam. How many teachers do you think you're gonna get involved with this collaboration?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u60	One thing I know for sure: if everyone has to do it for themselves and not work together, then we're definitely not going to get there. It's a huge job already. Much will have to be done, but one can learn from each other incredibly much. What happened in the Western Garden Cities Foundation last week is, as far as I am concerned, an example for many school boards. It would be a shame if what has been done there to tackle this great issue and to come up with new ideas were not shared with others. We need each other on this issue incredibly much. It is not the only one, but it is part of a somewhat integrated approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u61	Please continue with the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u62	Then the Western Garden Cities Foundation. I'd already made a little bridge to that. In any case, we have agreed with the big cities that they should be given priority in helping them to address the major issue they are facing. The boards had checked in with me, too. By the way, that's a little wider than just the G4. Almere is also part of this. This seems to be a partnership called very original 'G5'. They have been given the space to come up with very targeted, city-oriented and sometimes district-oriented plans. We support that from the ministry of OCW. Amsterdam and The Hague will conclude the plans in January. Those are, for some part, emergency plans. I'm just calling it a little sharp in case people just disappear, either because they're going to work somewhere else, or because of illness, and there's no replacement, so you know exactly what you can do within which bandwidths and when a limit has actually been reached, also in order to protect your own staff. In addition, the question needs to be considered: how else should we organise our education, including the knowledge that this staff shortage has not just been solved one-two-three? The Western Garden Cities Foundation is an example of this. You would be delighted if, during this cabinet period, it would be possible to resolve the shortage of staff, and I thank you for the encouragements, but you also know the labour market very well and you also know that the shortage will continue for a while. That must be taken into account. But there's another side to it, too. A delegation from the school has been with me, after I was on site with them last week. They also said: "It is also very important for us that we organise ourselves differently and that we also think about a much better connection with our environment, with civil society organisations and parents. It is important that we also involve parents in our education in a good and responsible way, without taking over the duties of a teacher, because that is not possible and we do not want to do so. Teacher is a real profession that we are thriving on." So we have made an impact. The other ones are gonna come up with that, too. Amsterdam will come in its entirety at the end of January. Then comes The Hague. After that Rotterdam, Utrecht, Almere and others will follow. So, in this way, we are trying to give them maximum support at this difficult time, on top of the approach we have and which has also produced results. Mr. Chairman. As you know, the budget presented to Parliament on Princess Day, in particular on Education, both in the Lower House and in your home, the Upper Chamber, has been a lot of discussion, including the pressing request for additional money to be made available. With the recognition of the many structural funds that have gone towards it, there is still a desire to make additional resources available. Both in the Lower House and in this place, the Prime Minister indicated that in the context of the Najaarsnota an ultimate attempt would be made to get that money available. In the end, additional resources have also been made available. These are incidental resources, as was already known in the context of the Autumn Note, but also by a number of reprioritisations and by keeping under-exhaustment within the budget of OCW, which otherwise we always have to pass on neatly to the Minister of Finance, we have finally been able to make the sum of 460 million. Mr Vendrik asked: did I understand correctly? After that, he gave a fairly good overview of the state of play. The 300 million, half of which for the p.o. and the other half for vo, has been added to the current budget of 2019. I would almost say that money has been spent by now. At the p.o. It has gone towards the negotiators for the collective agreement. They have also used this properly for the negotiated agreement that has been concluded. In other words, it goes to the schools, of course on average, with the number of pupils. There it will also be used to reduce the number of teaching hours or at least to create more preparation hours for the teachers. In short, at school level, choices can be made with the teachers, with the teachers taking part in the decision. That is a bit of an à la the way we deal with the work pressure equipment in the p.o. have done, which is a great success. As for the 14.2 million for the side influx, it's fantastic that so many people come there, but you also have to guide them well, otherwise you'll lose them again and then you'll have an extra problem. That amount shall be added to the budget in the Autumn Note. Money has also been made available, 10.6 million, for training together. This is added to the budget of OCW by a letter of amendment. In addition, we have said that a great deal has already been said about these pressure equipment. At the urgent request of primary education, another 100 million has also been brought forward. That will be settled in the spring note as well, so that the album is completely final. This will therefore be made available more rapidly, on top of the more than 333 million which has already been made structurally available. There was also a pressing request from primary education to regulate incidental training rights in primary education. That is what is now included in the negotiating agreement. That was never settled in primary education before. This will also be dealt with in the Spring paper. In my opinion, this also brings an amount of €600 to which a teacher can be entitled individually in 2020 and in 2021. In addition, we have also been able to make structural money, 16.5 million, available for the US. That's for the diploma-oriented flow in the vso. There will therefore also be an increase in salaries. In special education, however, teachers are often already on a higher scale than in regular education: 72% in regular education are in the L10 scale and around 85% in special education are in the L11 scale. They often already have a higher salary, but for the vso we have made this money available. That's settled in the spring note. As far as the cabinet is concerned, these are the additions we are now making to the structural funds that have been made available for 2020 and 2021. That's what you saw in the covenant. Those who signed the agreement have also agreed to do so, in the sense that they have also had the opportunity to put their desire for structural money on paper once more. But new choices will have to be made in new cabinet periods.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u63	May I ask how far you are with the answer, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u64	I'm way ahead of you now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u65	However, one last question to the Minister, which I also mentioned in my first term: can he explain once again how occasional money will solve structural problems?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u66	In this question there is a bit of a suggestion that no structural money will be made available. In this cabinet period, it does. That's one. The second is that structural money is made available around the vso. That can indeed be used for salaries. In addition, there is always the possibility of occasional labour market allowances. This has been done in primary education in the previous collective agreement, and this has now been proposed in this collective agreement. You can give that allowance to everyone in a broad generic way, and then you can arrange it in the collective agreement. But there is also room for schools to encourage and appreciate their teachers through labour market allowances, for example if they work full-time or do extra things. There are also very specific possibilities. Furthermore, some of the incidental money that we are using now is being used for very important subjects for the next two years. If we don't make money available for the side influx now, these people won't even be able to start and there's no room for guidance. We can arrange that for the years to come; that money is simply available. In short, even with occasional money you can do very good, beautiful and important things for a year or two years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u67	For the record, because I obviously didn't express myself well: I was specifically talking about the 460 million. I was not talking about the structural investments that have been made before. No, I was talking about the 460 million. The minister mentioned that the Prime Minister had announced that the cabinet would do its best and that it was then taken up in the Navy's note and that the 460 million was released. Then again, what is the 460 million going to do to solve the shortage of teachers? What is the 460 million going to do to reduce the structural workload in primary education?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u68	Two things. First of all, it was already clear from the General Political Reviews that this would be occasional money, because in the context of the Autumn Note, money remaining in other ministries and not being used for the repayment of the sovereign debt, this money could be used in addition to the existing approach. You have already made comments on how you look at the commitment of that money. The second point is that the covenant and the agreements that have been made cover a large part of the issues which are in line with the approach to countering the shortage of staff. That money is now being used for that too. So you can do very good with occasional money additional to structural money in the context of tackling staff shortages.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u69	Mr. Van Apeldoorn, third.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u70	It's not really an answer to my question yet. I note that the Minister says that with occasional money you can occasionally do very good things. I don't dispute that either. The point is that you may be able to reduce the workload temporarily and perhaps do something for side-intromers, but in two years' time, if this occasional money is spent and there is no structural added, the problem is still the same. The Minister does not address that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u71	I would like to give one example of how we have done this in recent years with occasional money: the approach to supporting the side-instromers. Mr Van Apeldoorn probably knows that €20,000 will be made available from the national budget for a side-intromer. Estimates are being made of how many side-intromers there will be. At that time we thought in the order size of 30, 40, 50, because there were very few of them two years ago. In the past year, we have suddenly seen an explosive increase in the number of people using this scheme. If we had done so in accordance with the budget, we would have had to end it early in the year. We have always indicated that I will do so for the coming year too: if there are more applications than there can be paid with the money that has now been made available, we will arrange it. Fortunately, this last year has been successful. That money has now been made structural by a Dutch parliament or at least it has been stipulated that it can be added this year. If we get another huge increase this year, I'll give you here already not knowing what I'm saying, because it could be as great a success as last year's commitment to do exactly what we've done over the last two years: get the money there! The money is now available, even for the large numbers. Let's be happy about that. Now on to next year and if there are any more, the same effort will be made by us. This also applies to the teaching assistants. We thought of 50, but it's now over 300. That number also exceeded the budget many times. But we just took care of it. We also look practically at what the developments are, where the people come from, where the money is needed. If necessary, we will also oppose these efforts. At least we did. My commitment is to continue in the same way in the coming year, with the already substantially increased amounts in the budget for 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u72	It is indeed a good thing that these resources have been added, that the Navy's note has that space and that some of it has gone to education. Very good, but we all feel that additional steps are needed and that the structural image after 2021 does matter. Teachers are also looking at this; is there anything else coming? The answer still seems to be: no, there is not much money in structural terms compared to the coalition agreement. Or am I wrong about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u73	I am standing here on behalf of the cabinet to explain to the budget as it has been presented to Parliament. The special feature of this year's education budget is that, so to speak, an Erradum has been added, with additional resources, including in the context of the Autumn Note. This is the money the cabinet has made available. I made agreements with the educational field about this supplementary money. You know how that went. One of the larger parties has run away, but the other signatures have remained. With them, the agreement has been made that these are the resources for 2020 and 2021. You know that there will be a new marking moment in 2021, because then there will be elections. There will then have to be agreements for a new period. Of course, it is not up to the cabinet to make statements over its own term. That's up to the Chamber. This has also been discussed in the Lower House, as you know, but, of course, the cabinet remains at an appropriate distance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u74	As far as I'm concerned, you don't have to. There are many Cabinets that do rule over their graves in all possible areas, and fortunately, otherwise no structural expenditure can be made at all. I'd like to invite the Cabinet to that. Let's take the next moment: the Spring Paper 2020. This round's ready, I understand. Then the next round will be the Spring Paper 2020. Then I assume that we have the commitment of these ministers to look again at what is in the barrel, to see if structural resources can actually be added to education. Can we assume that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u75	First of all: rule over your own term is of course allowed if you make structural money available that even after a cabinet has made way for someone else simply goes through. But then, so to speak, you also add butter to the fish. Then you make structural money available, so you can also see in the period after that what the amounts are available for these subjects. The cabinet has made it very clear that this is the complement to this cabinet period, with the structural investment we have made, for salaries and the means of working in primary education. There are no plans to add all kinds of extra money next year. No, we have also made the agreements with the education parties for 2020 and 2021 and they will have to be implemented. That's what I'm gonna do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u76	Vendrik, the third.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u77	I understand that the Minister does not say that there are plans, because those plans will only come to the Spring Paper, so that is understandable. Would it help these rulers if a majority in this Chamber were to say that structural resources for education are necessary and desirable in the light of the major challenges facing the whole field of education? Wouldn't that help, I ask this minister. Is there anything we can do?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u78	Mr Vendrik asks me to sit in a place where I do not belong. I am not literally in control here, on behalf of the cabinet, with the 2020 budget, but together with my colleague I am defending the educational paragraphs. I have just indicated that something special has also happened for Education, because additional money has been made available. This will be directed towards teachers and education in several ways. It goes without saying that I am defending that and not going ahead at other times and wishes. This is what we stand for, because this is agreed. Mr. Chairman. Shortly on a few loose topics, starting with the gap. It wasn't really a subject two years ago, but it was then. I think Mrs Vos, who asked a question about it, knows why. There was then concern that due to staff shortages, there would be an outflow of teachers from primary education to secondary education. We follow those figures. Also for the labour market figures that have come out today, we have passed on the hard figures for 2018. From the p.o. 381 teachers went to vo. 192 teachers from secondary education returned to primary education. It's about very small numbers. The discussion on salaries may of course always take place, but the special thing is that the most influx of new people is towards primary education. In the light of the discussion about the gap, you might expect something different, but this is the reality. Most people go to primary school. This is without prejudice to the fact that everyone may always wish for additional steps, even when it comes to appreciation. We're having that debate, too. This is what the cabinet has proposed. Of course, the Chamber also has its own responsibility to take other steps if necessary. That debate was also widely held in the House of Representatives. There were several amendments. There was even an amendment by the Labour Party that did not even cover it. I thought that was the most extraordinary, but well, that can happen. The final result of the votes showed that the amendments did not receive a majority. We stand for the steps that we can take now and which have a very nice effect. Look at the collective agreements that have been concluded. Mr Van Kesteren asked a question about group size. Mr Van Apeldoorn has also put his finger on this. That's always a very special discussion. We sometimes see very large classes. We keep national figures of the average group size. I know they're only averages, and there could be outliers up and down. The average group size has fallen in recent years. We're at about 23. It was 23.4. The picture is that the classes are all bulging out. That's what happens in some situations. Schools have independent powers, but they must involve their master in the classification of the groups. We're even gonna make that a right of consent for the mr. There is not yet, it is still an advisory right. These are the figures that come out on average. We follow it closely, every year with the actualizations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u79	Let me turn to the previous point. I actually have two different questions. The Minister states that there are a small number of changes between the p.o. and the vo. We see that there are more people from the p.o. go to the vo, then the other way around. The Minister also says that more people are pouring into the p.o. How many more are there and that solves the shortage in primary education? That really is much bigger than in the vo. My second question is the fundamental question. Does the Minister think that the difference in salaries is justified? Does he think that this difference should continue to exist?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u80	That's a few questions. I'll start with the flow of p.o. to vo. Look at the proportions. You could almost say that there are percentage more people from vo to p.o. If you also take a look at the total number of teachers working in both sectors. It's really about very small numbers. By the way, I think a bit of flow is quite healthy. There's gotta be that room. The concern that an outflow will take place if the staff shortage continues and we see these pay differentials, we do not see in practice. How many people go to the p.o.? The number of pabo-students increases every year by about 600-700. These are 6,000-7,000 young people who are prepared for the different pabos for a career in education. When we look at the side-inflow figures for the past year, we see that a little 2,000 have flowed into the foundational education and the MBO, of which about 800 - I say it out of my head have gone towards primary education. Those are just real numbers that we can determine and really tick them. In primary education, there has been an increase of 3,000 FTEs. Part of it is educational support staff. Those are hard numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u81	It's a lot of different numbers and percentages. That's always tricky. But there is still a huge shortage of primary education compared to secondary education. Are you saying this will solve itself, given the numbers?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u82	Then I'm going back to my previous answer. No, it doesn't solve itself. We are happy with everyone who is now available for education. We need to guide them well to hold them, too. Given the estimates for the coming years, we will have to continue our approach, including by supporting the municipalities and the regions in the plans they make.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u83	The fundamental question is of course also about the analysis of economist Heckman: the better the teachers of young children, the better. That's the background of our hammering at narrowing the gap. You just want the very best teachers for the youngest kids. Does the Minister agree with the analysis that you should actually grow into a single collective agreement for p.o. And vo?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u84	I propose that the Minister continue with his reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u85	As regards the choice of collective agreements, you know that they are decentralised, so that choice must be made there. I think it will slowly but surely be merged in the future. The first moves are already being made. It is up to employers and employees to further agree on this. As far as salary development is concerned, we see that the starting salaries in p.o. and are virtually equal. It is only after ten, twelve, thirteen years that you can see that there are differences in the growth. Fortunately, with the collective agreement that has now been concluded, additional things can be done again. Mr. Chairman. Two more topics. Very briefly, PISA. Last week, that was just as big. The figures shall be published every three years. It's a kind of European equation. It's okay to briefly point it out. It's an investigation involving 15-year-olds, mostly third-graders. The way in which they participate in the research is different from one country to another. We do it fairly without obligation. Actually, there's nothing behind it. It doesn't count for school ratings. It doesn't count for the students, but we do think it's important that they participate. There are countries where we have tighter regulations. That is something we are looking at, because that might indicate some differences. From the results of the PISA study, reading has received a lot of attention. We understand that. My colleague and I were already working to tighten this up, not only education but also the world around education, such as libraries. Reading with young children, pre-school care and so on should also be involved. It is mainly about reading pleasure and reading motivation. Those are like parts that aren't in our curriculum. They are in the building blocks of the revised curriculum, to be included in it. So we really need to get on with that, because we can't really accept that we're dipping down on lists like this, when it comes to something very crucial, dealing with language, reading and promoting reading. That's not acceptable. The second thing is that we're doing great with math. That hasn't gotten any attention, but that's the way it goes sometimes. We are even the second country in Europe in terms of mathematics. That's good news, so good it didn't really get through last week. That's the way it goes sometimes. Sometimes that's our fate. I also liked it very briefly, Mr President, if it is okay that the study showed that very little bullying is being done in Dutch schools. Then we're really high up in the lists. Besides, the kids feel happy. That's not unimportant. But we also want the learning outcomes to go further up. If we manage to preserve the good and further strengthen what is not good, I think we are on the right track with each other. This brings me to the questions about teachers, about the appreciation of teachers and about what they may or may not say in classes. Let me also make it quite clear here that there is a great deal of respect on the part of the cabinet, but also, as far as society is concerned, for the extremely important work that teachers do and for the school leaders and support staff around it. Especially at this time, when it is so difficult and they have it so hard, it is good to express the respect with words, but also to support it with deeds wherever possible. We do not intend to shut up teachers, I say to Mr Van Kesteren. Being a teacher is a profession, you know that. Who you are, you're taking with you. When you leave your home, you don't leave your beliefs hanging on the coat rack, but then you take them with you, even if you teach. We can, of course, assume that this is done in a responsible manner. If that is not the case, then action will have to be taken at the school. We're not going to do that at national level. There are opportunities to raise this through the participation council, which includes parents and teachers, or through complaints committees. We assume that this will be corrected. We are proud of our teachers in primary education, in secondary education and in all other sectors. With these words I would like to conclude my answer in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u86	Thank you, Minister. Then I come to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Van Kesteren.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have made my point with regard to overhead and bureaucracy, but in my opinion it is still not sufficiently recognised by the Minister. He referred to my presentation of things as a caricature, but I would like to tell him that that is the reality in terms of overhead and bureaucracy. I'd say ask the people in front of the class. Furthermore, I have not yet heard the Minister talk about combating the far-reaching feminisation in primary education, in particular a male quota. I would also like to hear from the Minister about appropriate education, about which I have also said something. Then, at the special request of my esteemed colleague, Mr Pijlman, I will continue with a number of examples of indoctrination in education and the media. Climate and sustainability policies are brought into education and the media as a healthcare story. The climate obsession with associated anxiety projected on children and young adults... millions of people who will die as a result of floods and famine, etc.... is a form of indoctrination, because it does not mention that solar activity and cosmic radiation are to a large extent responsible for climate change and that the temperature on earth has not increased in the last fifteen years. A second example.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u88	I'm sure you're going to have quite a whim, but in my opinion, you're often confusing facts and opinions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u89	No, I'm not. That's your interpretation. I'm gonna move on. There aren't many of them. The electrification of society is brought into education and the media as something necessary for a better and cleaner world. That's what we're told. What is not mentioned are the consequences for the energy supply, the enormous cost to society and the fact that this electrification leads to a huge and hardly recyclable chemical waste heap. And what about the appalling conditions under which small children in Congo have to work as slaves in cobalt mines in order to create a sense of virtue for decadent Western society with its perverse climate and sustainability obsession? Mr. Chairman. Trump, Wilders and Boris Johnson are portrayed as lunatics in education and media. In Good Morning The Netherlands was recently said by an analyst, an expert in diplomacy, that Boris Johnson's head had a number of bolts loosened. About Trump from the same sheet a suit. They are democratically elected politicians, with considerable support, with justified criticism and real and fair alternative solutions to the current problems presented unilaterally by a left-wing political majority. But there is no substantive information on this, but mostly blackmail. In education and media, extensive attention is paid to the Sugar Festival, while our own Black Piet is ignored and withheld. Very striking, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u90	Mr. Van Kesteren, is it possible that you are limited to today's subject, namely the education budget?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u91	My speech was also about discrimination in education that is trivialized and even denied. I wanted to back that up with a few facts. Mr Pijlman asked for that. I'm getting to the last one, so just give me a minute. I signed in ten minutes, by the way. Mr. Chairman. In education and the media there is also a lot of attention to discrimination and racism, but not a word about discrimination based on political orientation, about the contemporary repression of women in particular, of women who refuse to wear headscarfs and of people with different orientations in Islamic societies and no attention whatsoever to the new racism and racism laws in South Africa against the white population.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u92	Mr. Van Kesteren, I no longer see the relationship between what you're saying and the Education budget. For the second time, I would ask you to confine yourself to today's subject. The Rules of Procedure also require me to call on you to do so and otherwise to take the floor, so please confine you to the Education budget. I'll give you another chance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u93	Was it Mr Vendrik who pointed this out to you? I believe that this has to do with the Education budget, because I believe that there is indoctrination in education. Anyway, I'm finishing up. Perhaps Mr Pijlman can convince me with substantiated facts of the opposite of such indoctrination and show that it is not the issue in education and the media. This can be done informally in connection with time at a different time, I say immediately, Mr President. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say something to Mr Vendrik concerning the figures he gave from the General Court on the ratio of invested funds in education in the primary process and overhead and bureaucracy respectively. Mr Vendrik's figures also include non-classroom teachers as officials in the primary process. The ratio mentioned by the PVV in the argument did justice to that. Hence the difference between the figures from the PVV-too and those from Mr Vendrik. It's been noted. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u94	Thank you, Mr. Van Kesteren. I call Mr Van Apeldoorn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That came even faster than expected. Congratulations to Mrs Nanninga for her maiden speech. That is an omission that I wanted to correct, because in the first term that had slipped my mind. I listened to it with interest. I have to say, I felt like I suddenly ended up in a parallel universe. I admit immediately: we all look at reality with different glasses. But that it would be pointless to talk about the millions or billions that we should or should not invest in education because we are on a sinking ship because of left-wing indoctrination and the imminent demise of the supposed boreal civilization, is an image in which I do not recognize myself, not to say that the eloquence is utter nonsense. I would also like to say to Mrs Nanninga: is that really what you want to give to all those teachers who go out with heart for the cause and with devotion to their pupils, even though they prefer not to? Is the message that it doesn't matter whether we invest in education or not? I was wondering.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u96	That is, of course, the entrapment of an interruption, Mr President. I wonder, did Mr Van Apeldoorn even hear what I said? Did he take the words that came out of my mouth in the right order? Or was there a short circuit ink?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u97	Well, I think I listened to Mrs Nanninga's words very well. I have heard Mrs Nanninga say that we are talking about the education budget today, but that is not really so relevant, because we are in the situation in which our civilisation is at stake and we are all going down because of left-wing indoctrination and all kinds of other issues that Mrs Nanninga has raised. So you can throw even more millions or billions at it, but that won't matter if we don't tackle the fundamental problem. Mrs Nanninga herself talked about the Titanic and that we are all here debating the colour of the life jackets while the ship is sinking. Then again, my question to Mrs Nanninga is: is that the message she wants to give to all those teachers? Those teachers are, I think, right to be very concerned about what is going on in education, the quality that is under pressure, the shortage of teachers and the workload that is increasing enormously. Is that also the message she wants to give to the parents in the schoolyard? Parents may also be concerned about the sandwich sausage and whether or not it can be given. That was the point I wanted to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u98	I hear Mr Van Apeldoorn, even though I think it is a confusing speech. Would Mr Van Apeldoorn like to receive a print or an e-mail with my exact text? He's really getting it all mixed up. It's not going very well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u99	That's not a question. Mr Apeldoorn continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u100	I will read the report again. I believe that I have followed Mrs Nanninga very closely and I have heard her say little about the Education budget and much about the alleged great danger that is coming to us, which would make it irrelevant to talk here about whether or not millions should be added. I think I heard Mrs Nanninga say that literally. I see a lot of colleagues nodding. We will read it again and then we can continue the discussion at another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u101	Mrs Nanninga, I would like to make a brief final point. Then I suggest that we return to the Education budget afterwards.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What's another question? Did Mr Van Apeldoorn not hear me say very clearly that we are not treating our teachers well, that we are failing them, that we should appreciate them and that all the millions we spend on them are of course a drop in the ocean compared to the money we piss away from nonsensical left-wing projects? I can't imagine that Mr Van Apeldoorn didn't hear that, when I actually said it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u103	Thank you, Mrs Nanninga. I would ask Mr Van Apeldoorn to resume his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u104	Mr. Chairman. With your permission, I would like to thank the Ministers for their reply. Let me start with the Minister of OCW. Once again, I am pleased that the Minister has now repeated that she has come to the conclusion that there should be a structural increase of 1 billion for scientific education. I ask my question again. Does that mean that she is now trying to convince her colleagues of this? Can we expect anything from the next budget or is this an advance on the cabinet formation? I do not think I have yet received a clear answer. I had a brief interrupt debate with the Minister on the perverse incentives that currently exist in higher education, in particular scientific education, for the funding model. It has announced that it will not remain in the field of research, that new steps will be taken in terms of policy. I look forward to it. The Minister has already said that it is good that we can count on your support. That was pretty fast. We will, of course, take a critical look at the plans, see what they contain and whether enough is going in the right direction. We'll just have to wait and see. In any case, I encourage the Minister to take these steps as quickly as possible. Then we'll take a good look at it. If it is to say goodbye to the output financing model even further, then that is in our view the right direction. So this is an encouragement to the Minister. Furthermore, the problems in scientific education are still very great. My conclusion remains that, in the end, we will not be able to solve all these problems without more structural investment. The same applies to primary education. More specifically, about primary education, primary education. We have already said a few things about the shortage of teachers, even in the event of interruption. I would like to point out once again that the Minister agrees with me that the facts are clear. The problem of the shortage of teachers is great. There's a screaming shortage of teachers. This is already a major problem for schools, for parents who have to deal with it and, above all, for the pupils who have to deal with it. This problem, which is already so big, will only get bigger in the next five years. Those are the facts. Then the Minister says: that is an encouragement for us to continue with the current policy. I was a little surprised by that. If the deficit goes any further, can't you speak of a working approach? Isn't that a goddamn game? What exactly is the Minister's approach? Is it about side-intromers, about more cooperation, about encouraging part-time workers to work more hours? I maintain that even if these measures are useful, they are insufficient and the deficit continues to be high and that we will therefore have to do even more than is already being done. That seems to me to be an inevitable conclusion. I ask the Minister once again whether he agrees with me or not. I'd like a clear answer. The current budgetary frameworks may not allow this, and the Minister may say: we must return to the next budgetary negotiations within the Cabinet. But could he recognise that more is needed, because the policy is insufficient because the deficit is running out? This also applies to what Mrs Vos has talked about in detail, namely closing the pay gap. That could certainly help. Finally, I would like to return to my conclusion that structural problems require structural solutions and that the money for them is common to the public authorities and the business community and it is a matter of choices. As far as the SP Group is concerned, the cabinet is fundamentally making the wrong choices here. I asked the ministers to reflect on it again. They say, of course, we are not going to clap out of school, there is unity of government policy, agreements have been made and I am not going to share with you what the Minister personally thinks. Well, I can understand that. It is said that we have to wait another 25 years for the Cabinet minutes to be published. I do want to allow myself the freedom to say to both ministers that although I cannot look in your head or in your heart, I secretly think that you have sometimes wondered in the Trêveszaal: is this tax reduction really necessary for large businesses if we are to have such shortages in education and should we not invest 1.5 billion in Defence and invest more structuralally in education? I think you've been secretly wondering about this. Maybe we can reread that in your memoirs and come a little earlier than those 25 years. Mr. Chairman. With this implicit message, I would like to conclude, but not without saying that this means that I will not be able to advise my group to support this budget, which is clearly inadequate. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u105	Thank you. I call Mr Vendrik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u106	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to endorse Mr Van Amelsvoort's second final remark. Do I say Van Amelsvoort? That's the Secretary of State from the '80s. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u107	Your time is running.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u108	Mr President, I am referring to Mr Van Apeldoorn. In any case, I would like to give both directors a working title for those memoirs, "Sorry in the Trêveszaal." You already see it happening. Mr. Chairman. Then there is the serious point of the investment fund. I am addressing you in the first instance. What we see today around that investment fund and the Minister's probably inevitable response reminds me of the General Financial Reviews. And I think the cabinet is getting close to spoiling the game. What is happening? The investment fund is announced in the Millions Note. There's a passage about that. Of course, we are looking for the debate with the cabinet on this. The cabinet then says through the Minister of Finance: I cannot say anything about that at this time, and I will come back to you later. Last week there was a growth letter from the Minister for Economic Affairs and Climate, and that letter belongs to the investment fund. I ask for clarification on what the passage means about education. It has budgetary implications. Because why else does that growth letter belong to the investment fund? The Minister says: I cannot say anything about that, and I will come back to you later. Mr President, I think this is worth a chat with the Prime Minister. That is something I would like to consider, because it is not an issue to be debated. Months of news about the investment fund. 50 billion? We don't know. How it's gonna be decorated? We don't know. Suggestion, suggestion. Letters to the Chamber and at the time of asking for clarification as to what it means and what relevance it has to education, we do not get an answer. I am not looking for the debate on this with these rulers right now, because it seems that this is the case, but I really think this is a point. If this cabinet doesn't have his stuff ready in time, they'll shut up. If you can't give answers to parliament, you shut up. It's not about a few euros, it's about 50 billion. It is about the growth of the Netherlands, about the future of this country. It is about potentially large investments in education. Mr President, I think this is worthless. This is the second time I've run into it. We've been working on this for months. So I hope that perhaps the Cabinet will have some reflection and reflection on this at Christmas. I should like to ask you, Mr President, in all humility, to discuss this with the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u109	I did not say anything about it in the second term, but I would like to express my support for this point, because I fully agree with Mr Vendrik that on the one hand you cannot make all kinds of announcements publicly and then say: yes, we cannot talk about that now. Then when is it, and who is it with? Perhaps with the Prime Minister, but I fully agree with Mr Vendrik on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u110	Mr President, thank you. My final comment concerns the current budget. Thank you for the explanation given by the two leaders on the way in which the autumn package has been incorporated into the budgetary documents that are still to come. Then the point remains of my group and of many, including outside this Chamber, that structural additional resources are ultimately needed in education. And yes, they are structural; they continue to work in subsequent cabinet periods. They will also have to come back in the structural picture for another cabinet. Only then will education really be able to get to grips with the big issues that we are dealing with today. It's not about a few euros, it's about serious money. That is why I made my previous point, that I do not get any clarity from the cabinet here. Then we have to talk about statements in this Chamber. In this way, Mrs Vos is likely to table a motion aimed at making available the structural resources for education by motion. My group wholeheartedly supports this. I note, however, that similar attempts have been made by colleagues across the street because of the lack of a political majority. I'm very sorry about that. Maybe there's a third route. If it is complicated to do business with the Cabinet, because the Cabinet does not yet know it, and if the other side does not give us a good budget with structural resources, the last thing we can do is make a clear political statement here on the desirability of structural resources. That can then be seen as an assignment to ourselves, but also as a powerful signal that these rulers can take with them to the Cabinet, on their way to the Spring Note. That's why I'm filing the next motion. The President shall: Mr Vendrik, Mr Schalk, Mr Karimi, Mr Kluit and Mr Veldhoen proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it is essential for the future of our children to have sufficient teachers;]] [[noting that the size of the teacher shortage is worrying;]] [[having noted that the Cabinet is making additional funds available in the short term;]] [[whereas this is a step in the right direction, but new structural investments are needed for the coming years because the shortage of teachers is a structural problem;]] [[calls for further steps to close the pay gap between primary and secondary education in the next government period and to provide sufficient additional resources to combat the workload in basic education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-D]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u112	I'm just trying to get this motion to get through to me and point it out. I think that Mr Vendrik and I fully agree that there should be more structural funding for education in order to solve structural problems in a structural manner. I have argued that several times. But we are debating the budget presented by this government here today with this government. Do I understand that this motion does not really ask the government, but only asks the Chamber to give a ruling on the next cabinet formation and what should happen there? What if it's an assignment to the reformer who's not there yet? Did I get that correctly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u113	If the shoe fits, put it on. This motion could be carried out immediately by the cabinet, as the cabinet can also decide today on structural funds that will become available, for example, from 2021 or 2022. That's my short answer. As far as we are concerned, I have just made an explicit statement on the history of the situation. Our main route would be for a draft budget to be submitted here by the House of Representatives, which regulates structural funds for primary and secondary education in particular. That's both our desires. That budget is not here. We have also tabled a motion here at the General Political Reviews to emphasise that point once again. That motion did not get a majority here. Mr. Chairman. I'm trying a third route. See how far we can get.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u114	But if that is the main route and if the conclusion is that this budget is inadequate, then you could ask the government to solve that problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u115	Yeah, but we've done that many times. That's exactly my point. I can count. I see a budget that cannot be amended here. I see a motion coming which we have actually seen before and which is unlikely to be able to count on a political majority in this Chamber. In conclusion, I should like to make this motion, in order at least to express the pressing desire that structural resources should be needed beyond the resources that the cabinet has occasionally made available.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u116	Mr. Van Apeldoorn, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u117	If the conclusion is that this is the only route to be taken because the other route is closed, because this budget is there, because we cannot amend the First Chamber and because this budget is not going to provide that structural solution to structural problems, can it not, given the operative part of Mr Vendrik's motion, be the only conclusion that you cannot vote in favour of this budget now? I am curious to see what Mr Vendrik says.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u118	That's really asking about the familiar road. If you do not approve this budget, it means that we are sending OCW leaders on the road with the old budget 2019. It contains less resources than the 2020 budget. Then we'll just make the problem bigger. To be honest, that seems very unwise to me. To be honest, I would not like to put it to education that, in a fight for more resources at the end of the line, we end up with a budget with less resources. I'm not gonna explain that to the education.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u119	I am not going to allow any more interruption and I am going to give the floor to Mrs Vos.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u120	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the Ministers for their reply. I would just like to comment on the small debate between Mr Van Apeldoorn and Mr Vendrik. I read that the budget for 2019 contained 400 million more than the budget for 2020. Is that true for the whole thing? I took that picture out of, I think, page 22 of the Education budget. Anyway, this whole thing aside. I see the pain of Minister Slob about the shortage of teachers and what is going on in the big cities, about the fact that children are not receiving enough lessons and also about the PISA scores that we have so many 15-year-olds who are probably unable to participate and who are likely to be low-lettered. I see this pain, and I also see the caving of resources that this cabinet, like the previous one, is using to try to reduce that problem in education, which, of course, we cannot accept in a rich country like this. I am sorry to say this, but I think it simply does not work with the money that has been allocated in this budget and also with the occasional money that is going to come. You just, as Maarten Schinkel said, don't get the profession more attractive with the current resources. What was cheerful to me was the late conversation I had with the Minister and the Minister also said that it would be good that salaries and working conditions in primary and secondary education would grow together. We think that the sooner you do that, the sooner you will also structurally do something about the shortage of teachers. We therefore sincerely hope that this government will succeed in making that movement very quickly and that primary education will have the same working conditions as secondary education. It is very unfortunate that in one way or another it is not possible at this time when there is a lot of money, as we also saw from Minister Wiebes' letter of growth, and there is also the will to do so. We believe that there is a majority in this cabinet and in the coalition. The money's here. The money's here now. We want it to be dealt with now. We've said that before. We have two motions in which we appeal to the government. I hereby give them to the chairman. The President shall: Mr Vos, Mr Van Apeldoorn, Mr Vendrik, Mr Gerbrandy and Mr Teunissen proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the pay gap between primary and secondary education is an important cause of the shortage of teachers in primary education;]] [[Considering that, partly due to the pay gap, fewer men opt for a job as a teacher in primary education;]] [[calls on the Government to recognise that the current pay gap between primary and secondary education is a major cause of the shortage of teachers in primary education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] The President shall: Mr Vos, Mr Vendrik, Mr Van Apeldoorn, Mr Gerbrandy and Mr Teunissen proposed the following motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the shortage of teachers is very harmful to children in the foundational education system;]] [[Considering that the government sees good education as essential for our prosperity development;]] [[noting that the government wants to invest billions in our prosperity development;]] [[noting that both employers and employees in basic education demand structural investment for salary increases and work pressure reductions;]] [[calls on the Government to allocate to the 2020 Education Budget a structural amount sufficient in any case to close the wage gap between primary and secondary education,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-E]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-VIII-F]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u121	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank Members for their second-term comments. To be specific, I would like to thank Mr Van Apeldoorn for his support for the direction of policy. I'm sure we'll have another debate on whether it's in the right direction. It's nice to see that there are members who want to try to look into my heart, to see where that is. I can tell you that this heart certainly lies in investment in education. From this point of view, I must say that I understand Mr Vendrik's impatience. The cabinet announced in the Millions Note that it is thinking about a fund to invest. There is a growth letter that also indicates a direction, a direction that I am also very pleased with, because it also indicates that investment in education, knowledge and science is really needed to maintain the country's growth potential. If I may support Mr Vendrik: yes, also to increase the broad prosperity in this country. I can see why he's saying, "I still don't know if that money's gonna come, how much there's gonna be and when it's gonna come." I also understand that this needs to be clarified soon. I will also share that feeling with the Minister of Finance, but let me say that this direction is supported by me. I understand your impatience, because it is important that we take these steps in this country. I would also like to say something about Mr Van Apeldoorn's intention to vote against the budget. I am sure Mr Slob will say something about that in a moment. However, you must realise that the failure to adopt this budget would lead to a reduction in funding for education next year. We checked that out, too. A number of additional investments that we would like to make should not be made. So you're aware of that. I would like to say the following to Mrs Vos. There is a misunderstanding that we also heard in the House of Representatives and that we made a very clear correction there. You said that it seems that the 2019 budget for Education is greater than that for 2020. Yeah, first of all, that's right. What's that got to do with? This has also been explained in the House of Representatives during the budgetary procedure. In order to meet a number of colleagues who have suffered from under-exhaustment, we have made a cash drawer with the resources for the public health card. That's a lot of money. By paying that contract just before the end of the year instead of just at the beginning of the year, you're raising money. That will save us a few days, but that will allow a slide in those financial years. Maybe that's what's confusing you... isn't it getting less? It's getting more, but we have this rather technical cash slide, and that O.V. contract is indeed hundreds of millions. As a result, it seems to be an optically significant shift, but more investment is being made in education than less. Mr President, those were my second-term comments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u122	I shall then give the floor to the Minister for Basic and Advanced Education and Media.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u123	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the honourable Members for their second term. Mr Van Kesteren was right to draw attention to a question he had asked about combating the overhead and bureaucracy. I didn't ask that question for a while. For both primary and secondary education, we have provided the schools with material to look very closely at how they are doing and whether everything they are doing, even from us, by that I mean the government. That has indeed led in many places to the proper conduct of discussions on this matter and also to the question of the government, as I would say, pushing over the edge of things that were thought to be necessary, for example, from inspection or from the government, but which turned out to be just their own choices. If you wholeheartedly support that, you continue to do so, but if you don't, then you can just leave it alone. Thus we support the schools both in the p.o. as in the vo. I did say something about the issue of men in class in my first term. After men's interest in working in primary education declined for a long time, it is now just increasing again. That's what we see in the applications for the pabos. We also see this in the side stream, where men are also available for this beautiful work. This is, of course, a development that we are further encouraging. We are also trying to spread the good examples of this widely, because we hope that even more men will choose to do so. On appropriate education, I have not found any questions in what you have said, but I can tell Mr Van Kesteren that I have accelerated the evaluation of the appropriate education Act and that we will evaluate in spring 2020 what the first years have brought about, what shortcomings we may still see and what things are going well. Then there will be new proposals for the period after that. Mr Van Apeldoorn put the finger on a dilemma that we have to deal with. On the one hand, we can see that the approach we have, the commitment there is and the money that is made available actually lead to an increase in the number of people who will also be available for primary education in FTEs. A growth of 3,000 fte is really a huge growth, especially if you take into account that there is also a decrease in the number of students. That is, of course, the trend we have been in, even though you see some increase in the number of students in the big cities. That growth in itself is very nice. We will therefore have to continue with the approach that has led to this, but I have not put an end to it. I have also made it very clear that we will have to provide additional support, in particular for the authorities in the cities that have to deal with the biggest deficits. This is particularly the case in the major cities. We're working hard on that, too. New additional actions will also be undertaken in the coming year, starting in January with regard to Amsterdam and The Hague. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Apeldoorn has asked: what else are you going to do? This is in particular the approach in the cities and the support we offer. We're gonna help organize things differently, keep new people interested and guide them well. That is my little bridge to voting against the budget. Fortunately, a large part of the extra money has already gone to the schools in this calendar year, otherwise that would still be at risk. Anything that has to be incorporated further into the 2020 budget by means of a letter of amendment, adopted amendments and the like will then be put at risk. I am referring to the extra money for the side-inflow, the extra money for the approach in cities and regions, the money for the teaching assistants, the money that the Chamber has made available to the Teachers through an amendment, as well as the money for training together and speeding up the provision of extra money for the workload. We can't do that then. That could be her choice. Of course, we respect the voting behaviour of political groups, but you must realise that you are putting these investments at risk for large sums of money. Mr Vendrik has tabled a "spoken" motion. This means that it is up to the Chamber itself to decide. As a cabinet then fits us appropriate restraint. Mrs Vos has indicated that we are not going to solve the problem of the labour market in education with the approach we have now. I have indicated to you, Mrs Vos and honourable Members, through the President, that the issues surrounding our labour market are indeed very large. That is not exclusive to education, by the way. We also see this in the health, safety, construction, catering and so on. Many sectors are affected by labour shortages. These are also things that sometimes transcend what you can do from education. Think, for example, of the very big issue of the housing market when it comes to Amsterdam. This is without prejudice to the fact that, within our capabilities, we must make every effort to work on it. I am convinced, even if I look at the increasing interest there is, I have just said that this is reflected even in the growth of the number of FTEs, that despite the fact that we are going through a very difficult time with primary education, because that is what you have been talking about, and the work in it is also difficult, we are seeing a growing number of people making themselves available for that. This also has to do with the fact that, despite the heaviness, it is a very attractive profession and it is a joy to guide young people on their way to adulthood.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u124	Mrs. Vos, another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u125	I see that there are labour market shortages due to the high level of economic activity in a lot of areas. I didn't mention the HOS note and my grandfather for nothing, because he lived at a time when there was a surplus of teachers. Teachers were greatly appreciated. They were high on the social ladder. Does the Minister agree with the PvdA Group that we should return to that situation, because investing in education and enough teachers for the classroom is so crucial for society, for people, for combating low-literacy and for our earning ability? The latter has also been said by Mr Wiebes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u126	Looking back in history, we don't even have to go back that far in time. Indeed, we are going back to your grandfather, but also to the start of me and Mr Arrowman in education, the eighties. That was when we were dealing with a surplus. That was one of the reasons why I came from the west of the country to the east of the country: there was no job to be found. Why don't you get over that? When we look at what has happened since the 1980s, we see this cyclical influence every time. The moment there's a boom, there's shortages. The moment there is a low economy, we see surpluses. What we are experiencing at this time is an additional increase, because there is also a significant ageing population. We saw that coming. A few years ago it was thought that it might not be so bad, because the decline in pupils also required fewer teachers. Turns out it wasn't easy. We will have to do everything we can to continue our approach. That's what I argued here tonight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u127	Mrs. Fox, last one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u128	Let us therefore counter-conjuncturally budget that approach for education, so that we do not constantly get that wave, but always have enough teachers regardless of the economic situation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u129	We will indeed have to invest more in education at this time. That's what we've done in this cabinet period. That is what these budgets are all about. Mr. Chairman. Two motions have been tabled by Mrs Vos, along with a number of other MPs. The first motion, under E, has to do with the pay gap, as it is called, as a major cause of the shortage of teachers in primary education. I think that is a somewhat too easy analysis of the discussion behind it, with all due respect. Indeed, salary is a subject that we have to work on and which is also being worked on during this cabinet period. Despite the difference in salaries between primary and secondary education, the largest increase in new teachers is precisely in primary education, as I have just indicated. That is a bit contrary to this analysis that the profession would not be attractive and that it would not bring new people. This is without prejudice to any desire for further additional resources, but that is where the cabinet has made the choices we have made. I advise against this motion. The same goes for the other motion, under F. We have presented our budget and additional money has come. The Chamber can give its opinion on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u130	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u131	I come to the conclusion of this budget. Does one of the Members wish to vote on the bill? That's the case. Then I suggest that tomorrow we vote on the bill. Finally, I propose that tomorrow we vote on the motions tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u132	Could I ask you to put the motion I have just tabled to the vote as the last item on the agenda?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-16-eerstekamer-8.u133	I'll see if there's any objection, procedurally. There's no objection, Mr. Vendrik. Then I will suspend the meeting for the night until 17 December 2019 at 9.15 a.m.
