ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u1	The next item is the debate on concrete measures under the Prevention Agreement. I welcome the Secretary of State for Health, Welfare and Sport and give Mr Veldman the floor as the first speaker on behalf of the VVD. Speaking time is six minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u2	Mr. Chairman. About 40,000 people die every year due to unhealthy diets, insufficient exercise, smoking and/or excessive alcohol consumption. In additional healthcare spending, unhealthy nutrition peaks and too few move far above with a damage burden of €6 billion and €2.7 billion respectively. It is therefore logical and sensible that this cabinet made the agreement in the government agreement to draw up a National Prevention Agreement. Of course, many people know that a healthy lifestyle is important. This not only improves the quality of life, but can also ensure that disease and ailments are prevented in the future. What is a healthy lifestyle, however, is difficult for most people to fill in. Not everything that's unhealthy is necessarily bad. It's only gonna get really unhealthy if you take too much of it. And even that's not the same for everyone. The composition of your genes is probably much more decisive than the way you fill in your lifestyle. However, the government can provide good information and a number of conditions, which can help people to make healthy choices. But as a liberal, I say very clearly: it is not up to the government to decide how a person lives his or her life. Whether someone eats fast food three times a week, barely moves or moves by car, or that someone goes to the fitness school for a number of hours six times a week and has a balanced diet, or any combination of it; it remains everyone's choice. Mr. Chairman. As I said, it is a good thing that there is a National Prevention Agreement. Smoking is clearly bad for health, as well as problematic alcohol consumption. The fact that half the population is now overweight also justifies the fact that, as a government, we agree on the advantages and disadvantages of a particular lifestyle, by informing people about what is healthy and less healthy, by making people more exposed to healthier products such as fruit and vegetables, and by protecting young people from the risks of alcohol, tobacco and drugs. Mr. Chairman. The Prevention Agreement contains various legal measures that reflect the objective of a smoke-free generation, a single legal measure against excessive alcohol consumption and, above all, many own agreements between and with various branches on all three parts of the National Prevention Agreement. That's good. The basis for a healthier life is not created by laws and regulations, but by actions and activities of society itself. Many of the agreements and assignments of industry and professional organisations themselves therefore welcome the VVD. It is very good that companies, schools and associations take their own responsibility and act on their own.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u3	What about the responsibility of tobacco manufacturers, cigarette manufacturers? They add substances to cigarettes that make cigarettes even more addictive. Should there not be legal and firm action against this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u4	The tobacco industry is selling a product that, for the time being, we are all saying throughout the world that it is a legal product. Those manufacturers, that industry, are subject to a number of rules, some ISO standards even. These are international standards for what such a product may or may not contain and for what emissions from it may or may not be. They're sticking to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u5	So the VVD thinks it's fair to crack down on someone who smokes a cigarette once in a while and let the industry whistle with the billion-dollar profits?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u6	There seems to be a contradiction in that question. Perhaps Mrs Ploumen can ask her again, because I do not see the contradiction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u7	So the VVD is okay with a smoker who occasionally lights up a cigarette, while at the same time they just let the industry run away with billions of profits, which are cashed on the basis of demonstrably harmful products. So the user, the smoker is being addressed by the VVD and the industry isn't. That is actually the conclusion I draw from your words.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u8	If Mrs Ploumen wants to propose that we ban tobacco products in the Netherlands in general, she should do so. Because that is actually what she is calling for with this question. But you won't get that proposal from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u9	I have just listened carefully to the introduction of the Veldman of the VVD on this point. He actually says: it's a choice of his own, people have to choose for themselves. The government can provide information and information on what is healthy and unhealthy, but you should not go beyond that. I find that amazing, because in that I hear quite a contradiction with the views of the VVD when it comes to the prevention debate. Because when it comes to vaccinating, the VVD says, "No choice, we have to make a lot more obligations." Every year 25,000 children start smoking, of which I hear the VVD say: that is their choice. Why do you not want to protect those 25,000 children and the children in the Netherlands who are not vaccinated? Explain that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u10	Let me give two answers to that. Answer one: it is good that Mr Renkema already knows what my position is on the National Prevention Agreement, because I do not think I have yet appointed it. In my opinion, I have made it clear in general terms that it is very good that there is a National Prevention Agreement, but let me give a shot at it, because then Mr Renkema will know that: we will support the agreement that is now in place and which has been made by the Secretary of State and three tables. Answer two: vaccinations are something else that I think is essential. For example, there are daycare centres where children are brought who have been vaccinated and children who have not been vaccinated. Then you may wonder if that difference is bad. Yes, that is bad, because unfortunately there are also children who cannot yet be vaccinated, for example because they are less than 14 months old and are therefore vulnerable by children who have not been vaccinated deliberately. There are also children at daycare centres or in the ball pit of IKEA or I do not know where they should not be vaccinated because they are already too vulnerable in terms of health to be vaccinated. That is precisely why, my party says, it is fair to make maximum efforts to ensure that as many people as possible are vaccinated. We have had the debate on this with this Secretary of State before. I also said at the time that I have not yet reached the point where I want an overall obligation, but I understand the concerns that people have and I understand the concerns about the children that cannot be vaccinated, so I cannot rule out even as a liberal to talk about it. But first, I want to take all the other steps that are possible to prevent us from taking that step. I think of it as some kind of last resort. Hence, along with you, the appeal to this Secretary of State to step up his investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u11	Of course, I am not going to turn it into a vaccination debate tonight, but it is the contradiction that I see in the introduction between one's own responsibility and one's own choice, and on the other hand the VVD's rather firm position in the vaccination debate. Why not speak a strong language about those 25,000 children, three per hour in the Netherlands, who start smoking?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u12	That is precisely why this National Prevention Agreement contains a number of measures which we, as a VVD, also say are good that they are being taken. In a number of legal measures, I still have a number of wishes, and these are also a number of things that organisations have agreed with themselves. That is why it is very good to see that, even before there are any further rules at all, organisations themselves say: we can no longer smoke in the playground. Football stadiums say the same thing. Very well, I am very much in favour, especially when organisations themselves take responsibility. Because, as a liberal, I am very much in favour of society, organisations and bodies taking their own responsibility, and of not always looking at the government to make rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u13	We are talking about the responsibility of the government and the free will of the consumer. But of course you also have the responsibility of the manufacturer. Suppose a beer manufacturer would put ammonia in his beer so that the effects of the alcohol would be felt faster and noticed faster, would you be okay with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u14	No, I would not think that is a good idea, a because it is not healthy and b because I think that the manufacturer is in direct violation, because there are all kinds of legal requirements for beer that indicate what it can and should not comply with in terms of substances, as well as for cigarettes. In my view, I note with you that the tobacco industry complies with the ISO standards that exist and that the tobacco industry has also said: if you want to set different standards, set them, but preferably do so internationally, because you can't just do that in the Netherlands. If you want there to be a different composition, then you and I need to talk about the ISO standards.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u15	Yes, but we both know that you and I are not gonna get that done, and we already know that ammonia is an addition to tobacco, which only makes addiction worse. I think that as a government we should be fighting this. That's a responsibility, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u16	Too bad, I do hear a bit of a lack of ambition here, because if there is a possibility to improve things and to improve the testing of cigarettes and filters, I am in favour of that. That is what I said to the Secretary of State at the time: go ahead. He said he was gonna make a big deal out of it. Fine, I'll let you do all of that. The only prerequisite I have given is: make sure that we have an international playing field, because we are not on an island in the Netherlands. But if there are better measurement methods than the current ISO standards, that's fine; we should use them above all. Unfortunately, Mrs Sazias does not have that ambition. Mr. Chairman. I'm moving on. I have indicated that I think it is very good that organisations take responsibility for themselves, but honesty also requires me to say that I see a number of agreements that, in my view, are totally out of line with their objective. With the agreement made within the gymnasiums, for example, that we will not be able to sell a meter of beer in the sports canteen, I think we are completely out of the loop. I'd like to know from the Secretary of State how he's gonna see this coming up. Suppose I stand at the bar in the third half and order a meter of beer and the bartender tells me he can't give me that, then I look around, and I see eleven men standing and I say: only eight and three. Then the bartender says, "Yeah, that's okay." This is symbolic politics of a nonsensical kind. This does not help to create the social support that we also need in the areas of alcohol and excessive alcohol consumption. Mr. Chairman. Despite some good elements, I still miss some points in the National Prevention Agreement. Hardly any attention is paid to more movement, while movement poverty is the cause of nearly 6,000 deaths per year and almost EUR 3 billion in additional healthcare expenditure. How can I ask the Secretary of State? It seems as if there has not been movement poverty at all on the retina, while sports associations, at least as far as I know them, are open to making agreements on it. Mr. Chairman. Fortunately, many people are already looking for healthy products on their own, but why don't we help everyone by making arrangements with supermarkets, for example? That is not in the agreement now, but I think they are open to tempting consumers to buy healthier products. Supermarkets are open to this and want to make agreements on this, also in order to organise the supermarkets differently. Why aren't such an appointment in the agreement? Mr. Chairman. The various legal measures still need to be discussed through separate legislative processes or by means of pending procedures. However, I would like to ask the Secretary of State whether he is prepared to carry out the usual SME tests and border impact tests on these routes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u17	I was actually pleasantly surprised by what Mr Veldman said about seducing consumers to make healthy choices in the supermarket. I have a proposal which I think is very appealing to him. We could introduce a sugar tax. Then consumers can make healthy choices and then manufacturers are reminded that they could financially do themselves a favour if they put less sugar in their soft drinks. It's really very simple. They do that in France and in England. A little law; it's so fixed. We can do that in the second term. I would ask Mr Veldman to join us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u18	That is the great difference between a liberal and a social democrat: Liberals like to make agreements with people. The supermarkets are open to that. What you want now is a legal rule, a legal sugar tax. That's not the route I want, because a sugar tax makes the wallet thinner.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u19	Yes, and no sugar tax makes the wallet of the soft drink manufacturers and their shareholders thicker. It doesn't help the consumer. I would therefore ask Mr Veldman to consider this. I will come up with a proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u20	The nice thing is that the facts speak for themselves when it comes to sugar consumption via soft drinks. In fact, sugar consumption via soft drinks is lower in the Netherlands than in the United Kingdom, where there is a sugar tax. So I'd rather stick to the facts. I think it is nice that we can make agreements with supermarkets and others too, and that is also what that agreement says, especially to propagate light products. Because why would you drink the regular one, with lots of sugar in it, when diet is just as delicious as it is not just tastier? But that's a personal opinion. Mr. Chairman. I'm moving on. I would also like to ask the Secretary of State how he sees the deadlines for introducing a number of legal measures, for example the displayban. They seem a little tight to me. Entrepreneurs must, however, have the time and opportunity to prepare for measures and adapt their earning model. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that this requires administrative care and responsibility? The VVD therefore wishes to postpone these deadlines by, for example, one year, so that entrepreneurs have time and space to achieve this, but also financially. Can the Secretary of State and other parties in this Chamber support this request? This also applies to cigars. It seems that they will soon have to comply with the same rules as the traditional cigarette. Why? The VVD has a desire to keep the regulation for cigars heavier than 3 grams as it is now, and therefore not to include them in the new rules. Can the Secretary of State and, as I ask colleagues in the Chamber again, other parties support this wish?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u21	I wonder if this is the political branch of Philip Morris and the tobacco industry. Mr Veldman visited a small entrepreneur. He said: I will do my best to ensure that the entrepreneur's position is reflected in the tobacco dossier. I'd say he should be ashamed of himself. Health goes beyond the profits of entrepreneurs in this file. Every day 75 children start smoking. Every day 60 people die as a result of smoking. Smoking isn't a free choice. It's an addiction. Does Mr Veldman of the VVD realize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u22	I've been active here in The Hague for a number of years now and I was a long time in Nijmegen, a fairly red city where the SP was a lot bigger than it is now. Perhaps that decline there and also here has to do with Mr Van Gerven's position, because I find it surprising that Mr Van Gerven speaks so bathe and easily about entrepreneurs, who stand up every day, run a business, have a neighbourhood function, provide people with products, help and support people, take up and deliver mail packages for people, so do all kinds of things. Speaking of which, the Socialist Party is unworthy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u23	Mr Veldman is avoiding the answer. He is here as spokesperson for prevention and public health of the VVD, but what he is actually doing is operating as a political branch of the tobacco industry, of Philip Morris. Now he arrives with the story of the small entrepreneur, but also a small entrepreneur cannot continue to sell tobacco in large quantities. That's what we want to get to zero in the end. That needs to be reduced. That should be the commitment of the VVD, not the promotion of the interests of a tobacco lobby through the NSO and other clubs and make efforts to do so. The VVD should work for the health of all Dutch people who smoke and of young people, who are threatened with smoking. Let me ask you this: is Mr Veldman prepared to stop operating as a political branch of the tobacco industry?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u24	I do not know where Mr Van Gerven gets that. The moment you stand up for entrepreneurs and talk to them, I understand that Mr Van Gerven does not want me to do that, you are not yet a lobbyist or an errand boy from the tobacco industry. What I am doing is saying on behalf of the VVD that I support the objectives of the National Prevention Agreement. See the debate here. I therefore support the objective of a smoke-free generation in 2040. I support the measures contained in the agreement. They can contribute to the achievement of the objective. But on one point, I say: well, I get that measure, but shall we also see what it means in practice for such an entrepreneur? If you have a case with a meter or 10 of smoke products, which you somehow know how, they don't know yet to cover up, you'll soon be talking about investments of over €10,000. And that's for an entrepreneur who might be just above morale if he gets a nice, nice sandwich on it. Where would someone like that get these investments? It's gonna take time. I think we both have a job to do here. I think we agree on the measure, unless you're going to tell us anything else when you're standing here. But if we introduce measures here, we also have to ensure proper governance. As a government, we must ensure that people who have to comply with a law also have time to do so in a decent way. That's what I'm advocating here. No more and no less. So we support the agreement and the measures, but will we do it in a decent way and give those people a little more time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u25	The VVD undermines the Prevention Agreement. It has been known for a long time what is in the Prevention Agreement. That, I believe, was declared nine months ago or earlier. The VVD has done everything possible here in the Chamber to postpone the treatment we are doing now. The VVD did not encourage this; we could have had that debate much earlier. All entrepreneurs in the Netherlands know that the agreement is coming, so don't give them more time to prepare for what they already knew was coming. They want something else. Once again, Mr Veldman is here as spokesman for public health on behalf of the VVD, not as a lobbyist for the tobacco manufacturers or the political branch of Philip Morris. Finally, let me say this: the anti-tobacco agreement, the FOCT Treaty, clearly states that MPs must also keep to the fact that they must not maintain contact with the tobacco industry, but also with the suppliers and sellers of the tobacco industry. So Mr Veldman is simply in violation, in terms of health care, in terms of purpose, but also in terms of legislation, because that is contrary to the FCTC Treaty. Does Mr Veldman recognize that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u26	That's a lot of questions. I'm trying to answer them all. Let me start with the latter, about the fact that, as Members of Parliament, we should not be talking to shopkeepers who sell tobacco products. Let me give two answers to that. Answer one, and then I will look at you, Mr President, is: all the members of this Chamber have stood before you here and have taken the oath or the promise, and have sworn faithfully to the Constitution. Article 67 (3) states: 'Members shall vote without burden'. That means that you do not carry any burden with you in the preparation. Article 5.3 of the World Health Organisation Convention is a burden in this sense, which limits us. So I have a Member of Parliament, a colleague here, opposite me who are loyal to the Constitution... I shall put this to you, Mr President, because I cannot and will not judge this. But we have already had a discussion on Article 5.3, because Mr Van Gerven has already accused a colleague of violating it. I remind you of a letter dated 22 February 2017 from the Bureau about exactly the same complaint you made. You were actually in the Chamber at the time and could have seen the letter. The Bureau made it quite clear: "It is important for a Member of Parliament to be able to orientate himself broadly on all the facts and interests relating to a social issue before he or she decides his or her position." That's what I do. So I'm gonna talk to everyone. What you're doing is letting anti-smoking lobbyists drive you around like some kind of errand boy. There are, and that's okay; that's what I'm talking to. I've spoken to that too, but you have to do it carefully, on both sides. You are informed by one side and you refuse to look at the consequences for those entrepreneurs. That's what I do. I'm not gonna take anything away from the Prevention Agreement, I'm not gonna take anything away from the measures, but I'm gonna ask for care and also the government's reliability. You're saying that that rule was coming a long time ago. In this house there are many topics that we talk about for years. Yesterday there was yet another fuss in the media about a number of plans some groups have in this house. It's been discussed for years. Is that a rule? No, that's not a rule yet. A rule is a rule, if the rule is rule. Then that rule must have been established first, and he is not yet. So entrepreneurs have uncertainty about that. If you have uncertainty, you're definitely not going to make any investments, because then you don't know what you're up to. If you want to conduct a careful business as an entrepreneur, you can only make investments if you have certainties, if laws and rules are clear. But the rule isn't there yet. That we have taken so long here to discuss the Prevention Agreement, you may put everyone on the spot, but not me. I think it's a collective responsibility. The Secretary of State took almost four months to answer factual questions. We can also look at ourselves with our overcrowded agenda, so we could not discuss this Prevention Agreement earlier. It did not even succeed before the summer, which I also deeply regretted. As you know, you noticed in procedural meetings that I was on your side and on Mr Renkema's side and that we really needed to discuss this quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u27	Then concluding on the role of a Member of Parliament in relation to the tobacco lobby. Of course, I know the letter from the Bureau and I did not agree with it. I thought the cabbage and the goat were spared. The FOCT Treaty, the anti-tobacco treaty signed by 180 countries, really states that the executive and legislative powers, to which Parliament belongs, do not interfere with and do not consult the tobacco industry in order to come to legislation and the like. So it is obvious that Mr Ziengs' visit to the tobacco manufacturer is not right. It is explicitly the intention of the Treaty that we should not relate to tobacco sellers in order to increase the volume of tobacco sold or to reduce the rate of reduction in tobacco sales. The purpose of this treaty is for parliamentarians to make every effort to reduce tobacco consumption as quickly and as much as possible, if possible to zero, because it leads to serious health damage: it makes many people sick to death.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u28	As I said, I will let you continue to respect the Constitution, Mr President. Article 5.3 of the World Health Organization really says something else, Mr. Van Gerven. This calls on governments to be cautious in their contacts with the tobacco industry. In the Netherlands we fill that in a somewhat difficult way, I think. If I am speaking to industry, to sum up everything and everyone else, and yes, I speak to them, because I am speaking to everyone, including the anti-tobacco people, who you also know about a kind of track-and-trace system that is going to be introduced, then that is very good, because that is a European directive that we are going to introduce now. But we have no idea what to do, how to do this. We want to abide by the law, but when we knock on the door at VWS, they say, "Shut up, we don't do that, we're not gonna talk to you." The World Health Organisation says in Article 5.3 that you must be cautious. So you shouldn't talk about the production and development of products, but you can definitely talk about the execution. We want that industry to comply with the law, don't we? When you make laws, you have to talk to each other to explain what you mean. I also think it is a responsibility of a Member of Parliament to make rules, laws, talk to everyone, including the shopkeepers. So I also went to the shopkeeper in my own municipality, in my own village, to speak with him. I asked him, "What's the consequences of this in your case?" This is all paper, but it's about reality. I want to know what it means to an entrepreneur if he has to cover 10 meters. He says to me: Mr. Veldman, then I've lost $10,000. He says: this is about my income, so can you explain to me how to do that, because I started that case a few years ago and I grew the whole thing, 200 m? How am I supposed to do that? How am I supposed to do it when I see others reject the parcel mail from different services, because they make too little money, and then I take it over, because I think I have some kind of neighborhood function? 'Cause I'm barely making any money from that, but it's gonna cost a lot of work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u29	I think...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u30	It is the role of a people's representative to discuss this, to know what is going on. That is not what Mr Van Gerven is doing, and I regret that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u31	I actually think that Mr Veldman has a point about good government. However, let us take a closer look at the measure now being proposed, which is a ban for SMEs to stand out. It goes in as of 2021. That's almost a year and a half. I have just looked it up: the internet consultation is closed at the beginning of September 2017. That was two years ago. At that moment, of course, the sector knew something was going to happen. There was also a whole social debate on smoking and its consequences. Eventually, if I add it together, entrepreneurs will have three and a half years to take action. I do not want this to be insufficient and therefore there would no longer be good governance by the government. I am really fighting that and I would like to respond to that from Mr Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u32	I understand what Mrs. Dik-Faber is saying, but I'm not going along with her math. Because I just told you, a rule is only a rule when the rule is rule. This is four times the same word, but the bottom line is that as an entrepreneur you only have certainty when you know what the rule is eventually. The fact that an internet consultation was completed in 2017 means nothing. If we don't look for each other in the systems tomorrow tonight, President-in-Office, when there have been internet consultations of different rules and laws that have been planned, but whose debate has still not been held, some of the rules will allow us to go back ten years, even though they have never been completed here. Should every entrepreneur have prepared for that and put a bag of money in his toko and said: should I perhaps make that investment sometime? No, you can't run a business like that. Business is the moment you know which rules you have to comply with. There won't be that rule. It's at the end of the year. I don't know. I'm also looking at the Secretary of State. How fast does that go? I don't know what the Council of State's opinion is, but that rule isn't there yet. To ask an entrepreneur with a modal income to make an investment of a fat €10,000 in one year to clean that away, I do not think fair. So my wish is to just give those entrepreneurs the room, please. That's all I'm doing here. That doesn't affect the rule. The measure is coming. That displayban's gonna be there, but let's give these people a decent time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u33	Let's give these people a decent time: an extra year. I can't imagine this is going to make a difference to those entrepreneurs. They would have had four and a half years instead of three and a half years. Everyone was involved in the Prevention Agreement. An integral agreement has been concluded. I ask Mr Veldman to embrace the agreement in its entirety. The measures were clear. This has been discussed for a long time. The discussion has long been taking place on this particular issue. In 2017 was the internet consultation. I think that's enough. So I repeat my plea and I do not think we can agree on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u34	Can I turn it around for Mrs. Fat-Faber? The goal is a smoke-free generation in 2040. That's 20 years from now. Does that one year delay the introduction of this measure affect the objective of 2040? One year in 20 years? And that while you're talking about one year for an entrepreneur, a year in which he's trying to keep his business going. Entrepreneurs are already having a hard enough time. I'd rather switch it. Of that one year in those 20 years, the world's not gonna be any different. Those objectives are not going to succeed more or less.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u35	I am a little confused, because I think the VVD said twenty minutes ago to support this Prevention Agreement, and now it is being moaned again. I also spoke to SMEs this afternoon. I understand their position, because they're gonna lose income and have to make investments. If we look at those ambitions that are there, which you say are before 2040, and I think that's a bit late, I would have preferred 2030. If you choose those 1,500 SMEs, who say they have something to do in business, or do you choose those 25,000 children who start smoking and an addiction that eventually leads to 20,000 deaths a year? Where's your priority, Mr. Veldman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u36	The great thing is: I choose both, because I choose those goals of the smoke-free generation. The VVD chooses the measures contained in the agreement. The VVD welcomes the fact that there are organisations, institutions and companies in this country that are already going one step further than in this agreement. And I choose those entrepreneurs who want to do their best, who also want to comply with the laws and regulations, but which we all want to be there next year and also fulfil that neighbourhood function.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u37	Mr. Renkema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u38	You peat the number of times I walk to the microphone, so I'll leave it at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u39	You've got that right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u40	I'm almost through, so I'm moving on real fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u41	Mr Edgar Mulder has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u42	Mr. Chairman. I just heard from Mrs. Dik-Faber...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u43	I need you to turn on the mic.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u44	I just heard from Mrs Dik-Faber that everyone was involved in this so-called integrated agreement, but not the tobacco business, which is why they take a different view. That is what Mr Renkema heard today. He will now have trouble with Mr. Van Gerven and may not participate further, but completely aside. I found the comments of the VVD very interesting about an exception for cigars heavier than 3 grams. Those are not items that children buy if they want to start smoking. That's really good. I just didn't hear anything about an e-cigarette. Would you like to make an exception to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u45	I had just begun to say that in the UK, the government and health organisations that do embrace new products, because they say they are less harmful than the traditional cigarette, and so we have to tempt people who are addicted to that traditional cigarette to start using those new products; harm reduction. Even health organisations support that in the UK. Yes, it is also my wish to look at that again, because I know that it has been researched in the Netherlands, but the last study is from 2014 or 2015, so that is a while ago. There is already an x number of new products on the market. I see changing messages whether it's bad, very bad or worse than the traditional cigarette. My appeal to the Secretary of State is to do new independent research in the Netherlands and to use those results to see if we should deal with these new products differently than we are doing now, because now they are being aligned with the traditional cigarette. I think we are in agreement on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u46	It is good that we are in agreement, but that also means very concretely that you are coming forward with a motion yourself or that if a motion is tabled to make an exception for cigars heavier than 3 grams and the e-cigarette will support it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u47	I've just made an appeal to the Secretary of State for such an investigation. I know the chairman isn't such a huge fan of a motion racket, so I'm gonna wait for the Secretary of State's answer. I have just expressed my wishes about a year's delay in that displayban and dealing with cigars heavier than 3 grams. I've asked the Secretary of State how he sees these wishes. I asked the members of the political groups to do so. Your position is clear; I know you have the same wish as I do. Then we will see how we proceed, because we may have wishes, but we must also do so with majorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u48	Please continue. I think you're in the middle of a rounding. Mr. Edgar Mulder?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u49	I was almost gone, but then that last sentence comes. Of course, it's not about getting a majority for anything, it's about whether you're in favour of something, yes or no. If you say now: I am in favour of this exception for cigars over 3 grams and for the e-cigarette, it should not, in principle, matter whether that motion gets a majority. The point is that if such a motion is tabled, it will be supported on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u50	Mr President, your plea before the recess was taken from my heart, namely: shall we do something about these huge mishap of motions? You do not make your position known by submitting a motion. I am announcing the position of the VVD here today, and that was already known. The VVD wants entrepreneurs to have a year longer time to enter the displayban. The VVD wishes to exempt cigars more than 3 grams from the new measures. The VVD wishes to investigate the new products and their harmfulness. Three wishes. Three times before. Do I need a motion for that? No. This is what I'm saying right now. I'll ask the rest how they feel about that. So far you're the only one who's been in favour of that with me. I now know from Mr Van Gerven that he is radically opposed to this. With a number of others, I can make the assessment, but I'm very curious what they're going to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u51	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u52	Then I will come to your motion, because you apparently want to translate the "for" into a motion. It's what you stand for. This is what I stand for. If you would like to table motions, you should do so, but that really only makes sense if you get a majority. Otherwise it is mainly occupational therapy. If you stand here, you can just say you're in favour. You just did, so we know that by now. That helps. That saves you speaking time. Mr President, I will conclude. All kinds of new and innovative solutions can make a positive contribution to living as healthy as possible. It is precisely a positive incentive that can help people to live healthier. I miss this positive stimulus a little in the Prevention Agreement. As the Secretary of State has undoubtedly seen, I have therefore submitted an initiative paper to link technology and prevention. So that's what we're gonna talk about. Mr President, I will conclude. As far as the VVD is concerned, we are fully committed to informing people how they can make their own choices as healthy as possible. With this we leave people the room to lead their own lives, but we take the role that the government can take to the maximum seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u53	We are talking here about the tobacco, overweight and alcohol prevention agreement, but this summer we have also seen a topical theme: nitrous oxide and its nuisance. Local VVD groups have also expressed their concerns about this. Does Mr Veldman see with the CDA that there should also be rules on prevention?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u54	I see with Mrs Kuik that people in the Netherlands are using a product that is not intended for that purpose in the wrong way. I don't like that. In fact, I think that as a government, we should take a step in order to make it clear to people that they are really doing the wrong thing. However, I would like to think very carefully before we take steps to come up with all kinds of new rules for such a product, because unfortunately there are more products that are used in the wrong way. There are people who sniff glue. There are people who even snort nutmeg. All kinds of products are being sniffed and swallowed that are not intended for that purpose. Are we going to ban all these products, remove them from the market or supply them via the drugstore or the pharmacy? I still think that's a tricky road. Maybe as a government we should step up to make sure people get to know that you're really not doing well when you're inhaling a hundred of those balloons. I would like to do that with Mrs Kuik. In my opinion, the Secretary of State has also recently addressed this issue in his letter on drug prevention. I think it is very good that there is research into how harmful it really is, because maybe even one balloon is already harmful. Most scientists now say that it probably isn't. We've recently seen reports of one or two guys getting a spinal cordial or something. But when young people work one hundred balloons a day, a piece of their own responsibility begins there. If you snort in a few kegs of nutmeg every day, I don't think it's gonna go too well up here either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u55	I guess I missed sniffing nutmeg is one thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u56	Google. You'll find it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u57	I have not heard from various groups that this is now a problem in society. That's what I heard about nitrous oxide. I do hear Mr Veldman talking about a problem. Again, my question. The local groups are asking for handles because they cannot do enough to deal with this. Will Mr Veldman consider how we can help the local groups in the country to deal with this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u58	That was a specific question, Mr. Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u59	It is always good to think with each other when something more is needed, but for the time being I note that municipalities have handles. A lot of municipalities do it, too. In event permits, they record that no nitrous gas ampulls are allowed to enter a site or that they are not allowed to be used. The question is then whether everyone abides by that, but that also applies to a number of other products that have been declared not to be allowed in. I only have to look at my neighboring town of Nijmegen, where in some areas it is stated that people are not allowed to bring their own cans of beer in during the Four Days, but they still do. So you're gonna have to maintain it, too. But municipalities have opportunities to intervene. They also have opportunities through the APV to deal with nuisance. So there are a number of means. Let us first see if these resources are used effectively and properly enough, and then take next steps. But not now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u60	I see Mrs. Kuik watching.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u61	The local groups and mayors indicate that it is insufficient. In Venray there is now a shop selling nitrous oxide. The city can't stop that. Sales cannot be dealt with because there are no rules. It is true that municipalities can do something about it via the APV and event permits, but we do not have the whole picture to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u62	I hear that Mrs Kuik is already pre-sorting for some sort of general ban. I'm not ready for that step yet, because I think you should first look at what's possible with the existing rules. Are they applied everywhere? Does it really say in any licence issued that no nitrous oxide should be used? Is effective action really being taken by the police or by any other means against nuisances on the streets and around cafes? Were there any agreements on that in APVs? I don't think so, because I don't think the VNG's standard APV knows it, and a lot of municipalities take over the VNG's standard model. So let's do what's possible first. Let's, when we're out of space, see what else might be needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u63	Mr Veldman is well informed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u64	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u65	So I was also a little surprised when I just heard him finish with: light people but just good for and then they can make free choices themselves. My colleague from the SP has already pointed out that smoking, for example, is by far the majority no longer a free choice at all, because it is simply an ugly addiction. The same applies to food. Then scientists have actually been telling the Chamber for quite a long time that the environment is of great influence. Whether there are fast food restaurants in your neighborhood or vegetable farmers, that matters. Whether it is stunted with unhealthy products or that healthy food is on offer, that matters. Scientists have been telling us for a long time that information alone is not enough. I am so surprised that the VVD says "light people in front of it, then they make their own free choice," while there is much more influence. Does the VVD at least recognise that this food environment affects the choices people make?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u66	Sure, I just said that. Why is it not in the agreement that agreements are made with supermarkets about tempting consumers to buy healthy products? That's not in there right now, and the supermarkets are willing to just do that. So my appeal is to the Secretary of State: add it to the agreement or talk to supermarkets about it. And yes, of course I understand that if you have a whole square full of all kinds of fast food chains, then perhaps the temptation is great, because there's nothing else to find. If a whole square only consists of fast food chains, there is no choice. So municipalities have a responsibility in this too, but I am not going to decide here in The Hague how municipalities should do their work, because the good thing is that there are municipal councils there that set out planning plans, which will become environmental plans, which is also a good word. They determine how the environment is organized and what is and is not allowed. In my view, the Prevention Agreement also includes agreements on a healthy living environment. If municipal councils then say that they think it is enough after the fifth fast food chain and that they should not add a sixth, that is a local responsibility and they can make that choice too. Should we do that here? No. So that's why you haven't heard about this either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u67	It's a bit of a complicated answer, isn't it? If you say here that people can make a free choice, you also have to make sure that free choice is really free. Then you'll have to dig deeper into the influence of that food environment. If we see that 80% of the offers in the supermarkets are about products that aren't in the Five Disk, then you're not going to come up with a seduction measure, are you? Then you must also note that this is therefore contrary to the objectives set by the Secretary of State and that you really need to take a step harder? That must be more than just seducing. If the croquettes are €1 and the apples are €2, then you know what sells better? Then you have to put tougher measures on that and so you shouldn't just beg at the supermarkets if they want to seduce them a little more, if you see them earning their money from stunting with that unhealthy food?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u68	I don't know which supermarket Mrs Ouwehand comes into, but in the supermarket where I come there are regular offers of very healthy products. White grapes, getting two bowls, paying one. Now the nice weather is that if you eat those two cups in one go, you get lots of fruit sugar, which isn't healthy. And yet everyone thinks it's a healthy product, but it's not healthy to eat it at once. So my grocery store has these offers: getting two, paying one. That is a good thing, and I believe that it will still be possible to do so after this agreement. So there are also offers for healthy products. In fact, the Nibud states that looking at all products in the Five Disk, you can live with a minimum income healthy because all products in the Five Disk are subject to a minimum income.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u69	Then there's my third question. We're allowed to ask six questions in this round.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u70	Yeah, that's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u71	I find what Mr Veltman is saying too easy. I would like to draw attention to research, as part of those prevention plans, which simply shows that 80% of the offers are about products outside the Five Disk. And then Mr Veltman comes up with a supermarket where he sometimes sees grapes on offer. Hello, we're talking about the investigation and the 80%. Of course there is a grocery store that sometimes sells grapes, but that doesn't undermine the research results, does it? Well, I guess you'll have to be honest. If you refer to the Nibud, you should also mention the figures from the studies underlying this Prevention Agreement, which shows that people with lower incomes are really more difficult and are at great risk of harming their health. Then I find it far too easy to say: the Nibud says it can, you know, so there is no problem. I am going to call on the Secretary of State to ensure that this is really a viable goal for low-income people too, and I believe that the VVD should support these plans, because health should be accessible to everyone and not just to people who have money.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u72	I fully agree with the latter: good health must be accessible to everyone. That is why we have arranged this very well with each other in the Netherlands, both in terms of health systems and in this area. The figures of the Nibud simply show that you can also put a healthy meal on the table with a minimum income, consisting of products and elements of the Disk of Five. Is that always easy? No, that's not always easy. Are there temptations? Yes, of course there are temptations. Is it bad to be exposed to these temptations and to give in to them for once? No, that's okay at all. You just don't have to do it every day. There's nothing wrong with a croquette sandwich, but you don't have to do it every day. It should not, and I asked the Secretary of State, because people often eat it with white bread, and white bread is less good than brown bread. In short, it's about how you implement it yourself. So my appeal to the Secretary of State was also: make agreements with supermarkets, to seduce people to buy the most healthy products. That's not in the agreement, but it's my call.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u73	Mr President, this is going to be my fourth interruption, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u74	It's your fifth.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u75	Oh, the fifth. Well, I like to spend him on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u76	It's going very fast!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u77	Mr Veldman calls it Nibud as a venerable institution. There is another venerable institution: the RIVM. That's what the Prevention Agreement passed on. The conclusion of the RIVM is that all objectives in terms of healthy food, all objectives in terms of alcohol consumption and most of the objectives in terms of combating smoking addiction are thus not met by the State Secretary himself. So I say to Mr Veldman: then he agrees with me, with Mrs Ouwehand, with Mr Van Gerven and with Mr Renkema that this should simply go back to the drawing table? For if Mr Veldman agrees with all of us that everyone has the right to a healthy life... So this Prevention Agreement does not contribute to this. That is the conclusion; not from me, although I think so too, but from the RIVM. What does Mr Veldman say about that? Is he asking the Secretary of State to go back and do his homework, so that the right to health applies to everyone: poor, rich, young, old, everyone?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u78	I think that the Prevention Agreement as it stands is going to contribute to a healthier lifestyle for people. But, of course, it starts with people themselves. I have also seen the conclusion of the RIVM, which Mrs Ploumen sees. But I've also seen the fine print of the investigation. The small print of the study also says that there are a number of assumptions that cannot be fully substantiated. There's even a triple in it: assumption on assumption. I'm originally a historian, so I also got some methodological parts in my studies. I've learned that methodologically it's not very justified to draw real conclusions when your assumption is stacked on assumption. That is what RIVM has also said very carefully: we need to take this with a margin. Now I'm like, "Let's start with what we have." It contains a number of good measures. Above all, there are a number of ambitions and agreements in which all kinds of parties work together. There's no law and no rule in it, and I like it: just make agreements with each other. Now let's get on the road together, where it's in the base in the end I just closed down with that, President-in-Office of the Council is a responsibility of your own when it comes to what things you do or don't do. You can live a perfectly healthy life and eat all the healthy things every day, but if you're sitting on the couch all day after that, it's not healthy. You can work out six times a week, but if you have a white cadet with a croquette every day and I know a lot about eating, you think you're doing well, but it might not be that healthy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u79	Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u81	I now give the floor to Mr Van Gerven on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u82	...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u83	How's it going, Mr. Van Gerven?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u84	It always works! Time is quality, let's just say. Mr. Chairman. On 15 August, the Central Bureau of Statistics presented new, shocking figures on health differences between rich and poor. The gap has grown again since the beginning of this decade by one year for 65-plussers. If you're poor and you've only had a practical education, you'll die sooner than rich people with money and high education. It is now five years earlier for men and four years for women. That is a sad legacy of the Rutte Cabinets. Rich people also retire eight months earlier because they can afford it; unfortunately, poor people do not. "Cru," spokesperson Dick ter Steege of the CBS called this uncomfortable truth. What's it because of? "It's the lifestyle," many shout: smoking, drinking alcohol, eating fat, overweight, not moving. This frame the problem as an individual choice: own fault, thick bump. However, that is something that needs to be addressed. The socio-economic differences in our country are increasing. This leads to greater health inequalities. Unfair societies lead to unhealthy societies. There are class differences in health. Where your cradle has stood is important, but isn't it also true that unhealthy conditions lead to unhealthy behavior? A drafty fungal house, of which there are hundreds of thousands in the Netherlands. Debts, so you can't buy healthy food. The lack of perspective on work. Isn't it true that smoking is very addictive and that children are addicted within a month? If we reduce the socio-economic health gap to merely an individual behavioural problem, the differences will only increase further. We must do something about these unhealthy conditions and the causes of unhealthy behaviour. Why, for example, do not we bring dental care for adults back into the package, so I ask the Secretary of State. 21% of people with a gross income below €1,600 do not go to the dentist. With an income above €2,500 that is 7%. So that saves a factor 3. The experiences of dentists are that if the parents do not go to the dentist, the children also go less to the dentist. And why do we not eliminate the own risk of €385, which is a fine on sick? After all, we know that this means that people will refrain from medically necessary care. Its own risk is a sta-in-the-way in reducing the health differences between rich and poor. What does the Secretary of State think of the proposal to review laws that are being made for their effects on the socio-economic health differences, just as we check laws on the administrative burden? Given the figures of the CBS, is it not acceptable for laws to be adopted which could increase health inequalities? Then there's the Prevention Agreement. Does this bring the reduction of socio-economic health inequalities closer? RIVM doesn't feel comfortable. The influence of the food and drink industry has left its mark. The question is whether we are achieving the objectives of drastically reducing overweight in the Netherlands and improving nutrition. Take, for example, salt use in the Netherlands. Too much salt is bad for heart and blood vessels. We have enough 6 grams a day, but we've been on an average of around 9 grams a day for a long time. That's 50% more than good for anyone. Former Minister Schippers already threatened a legal standard. It never happened. But do good legal hard standards for salt, sugar and fat in food products not put much more on the table than all these non-binding agreements? The SP is not in favour of introducing a sugar tax. Not the citizen, but the producer needs to be dealt with. Can the VAT rate for fruit and vegetables not return from 9% to 6%? This promotes the consumption of good food. That measure can be introduced and can still be announced before Princess Day. Then smoke it. Before the recess we visited the specialists of the Netherlands. They urgently call on Dutch politics to reduce tobacco addiction and, in particular, to ensure that children do not start smoking. 75 children a day start with this every day. The specialists advocate the introduction of a tobacco addiction fund. The SP supports this idea and asks the Secretary of State to support it. This can be financed, for example, from the turnover of the tobacco industry in the Netherlands. We're thinking 5% or more of the turnover. That could be very good. Tens of millions of dollars can be collected each year. This fund can be used for massive information campaigns on social media, improved monitoring and possibly even treatment against tobacco addiction. In addition, the places where tobacco may be sold should be limited to tobacco specialty shops. The fewer cases where tobacco is sold, the easier it is to check whether tobacco is sold to minors. There is also a real reduction in tobacco sales and consumption. Does the Secretary of State intend to introduce a system of licences for the exclusive sale of tobacco in tobacco special cases? Finally, Mr President. Prevention is essential in reducing health inequalities between rich and poor. Municipalities also play a crucial role in this. Does the Secretary of State agree with the idea of legally anchoring the right to prevention and health protection, similar to, for example, the national vaccination programme we already know? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u85	Thank you, Mr. Van Gerven. I now give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u86	Thank you, Mr President. When you ask people what is ultimately the most important thing in life, they always say: your loved ones and your health. You just have to protect it and cherish it. People who have become ill often say: "I took it so for granted that I had a healthy body that could do anything. It wasn't until I lost my health that I realized how decisive that is and how much freedom you're actually losing; the freedom to live as you want." Mr. Chairman. That is an element I am missing in the debate on prevention. Many parties have a big mouth that they would like to protect the free man, but this element is what happens when you lose your health and lose a lot of freedoms. I would therefore like to ask the Secretary of State at the beginning of this debate whether he agrees with the Animal Party that the government should help people to protect their health and that people should have access to an environment that is basically healthy. Because we are now seeing that the government is giving industry, in particular, a great deal of freedom to deal with the environment in which people have to work, live and raise their children and in which children have to grow up, with great dangers to health. We have been discussing tobacco for a while in an interrupting debate. Yeah, there's no free choice there, because it's such a nasty addiction. Fortunately, we are seeing a Secretary of State who is expressing that he really wants to do the same. It seems to us no coincidence that the agreements on tobacco are the sharpest, because the tobacco industry was not allowed to sit at the table. World health rules don't allow that. So the tobacco industry is the only one who wasn't really allowed to talk. Fortunately, that's where the most happens. There's one more step to it, but let's go. Then why do we not do so for other factors that also have a major impact on people's health opportunities? I really got a little sad when I read about the cabinet heist sessions, where it seemed to be about one question: how can everyone progress next year? Why does everyone have to make progress? There are people who really don't need to have more income. We do have a problem with people who have little money, who are already having a harder time in life and who are also getting hit harder. Mr Van Gerven also talked about health risks that are more lurking when you have little money. Why doesn't the cabinet make that a point and why doesn't the cabinet try to combine it? We have been reminded of this by young people this weekend. They say: if you make policies on one field and on the other, and then you put them together, then the blow is very big for us as young people. The same applies to people with little money. They have to deal with an increase in VAT on products that you simply need for a healthy body, such as fruit and vegetables, and they have to deal with all kinds of costs and stress factors. I see a cabinet that doesn't make this combination. Why isn't that happening? We have asked the Secretary of State about the influence of the food environment. What you buy, what you eat, is to a large extent determined by the industry, which has so far been given enough space by the government to set up that space freely: stunted with meat, stunted with cheap products, everywhere fast food chains, advertisements especially for products outside the Disk of Five. Yeah, that makes a lot of difference to what people do and don't buy. You can feel that with your sense of farming, because if those marketing strategies didn't work, those companies wouldn't carry them out that way. They wouldn't spend all those billions on commercials. You can see that with your common sense, but we also know it from scientists. At the beginning of 2018 we had an important food debate here in the Chamber, because not only the health is of great importance, healthy food, healthy food supply, but there are still some issues when it comes to sustainability. Then the Chamber invited scientists and asked: how should we do that, because the government has been trying to seduce people, inform them about what healthy food is and what sustainable food is, but we are not getting there. 50% of people are overweight. That is very unfortunate for the people who have to deal with it. Then what do these scientists say: this food environment is incredibly important, take that into account. Then I tabled a motion and the Secretary of State said: I agree with Mrs Ouwehand, the food environment plays a major role, but wait now, because we are going to write the Prevention Agreement and you will be pleased with that. I don't see anything back from those scientists' recommendations. Then I wonder: doesn't the VWS Ministry know all these reports or are they deliberately ignored? What's going on? I'll take one example. The Prevention Agreement on child marketing states that the use of licensed media characters are the Disney puppets or the Bob de Bouwer puppets on unhealthy products that are restricted for unhealthy products. But what does "delimited" mean? If there are now 1,000 unhealthy products with Disney characters in the store and in five years there will be 999, does the Secretary of State already call that profit? However, the scientists have said that you must ban all child marketing. I wonder why that food environment hasn't been addressed. I also wonder why the Cabinet does not look at the advice of the Environment and Infrastructure Council, the Government Policy Scientific Council, the Environment Planning Office, all of which have made statements on how to deal with food policy, and also on RIVM's, not least, which has looked at the Prevention Agreement. All four of them say that's not how you're gonna make it to the targets. What prevails here, the science and the desire to truly protect people's health, or the political will of the VVD? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u87	Thank you, Mrs Ouwehand. I call Mrs Sazias on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u88	Mr. Chairman. The agreement was signed by 70 social parties. That's a huge achievement. According to the Secretary of State, the biggest gain is that a movement has started. For who could have thought for a number of years that we would sit around with so many parties to make the Netherlands healthier. That is good, but if we look at the measures more closely, then we are getting a little critical. If you assume that 35,000 people die every year in the Netherlands as a result of smoking, overweight and alcohol consumption, which is 51 times as much as the number of road deaths, then you would expect more stringent measures. Bringing all these organizations to the table deserves praise. That is what many experts think, but they believe that the agreement contains far too many terms such as 'agreements', 'evaluation' and'research', but does not propose any new legislation. In that respect, they do better in England. The APPG, the All-Party Parliamentary Group on Smoking and Health, wants to introduce a levy for large tobacco companies in order to finance tobacco discouragement policies. There is also support for the introduction of a licensing system for the sale of tobacco in order to reduce the number of points of sale. What does the Secretary of State think of such a licensing system? Does he agree with 50PLUS that that would be the way to buy tobacco from supermarkets and petrol stations and sell only in specialist stores? A levy for tobacco companies could be seen as compensation: compensation for the damage done by these manufacturers to their products. For severely addicted smokers, this means that free will and self-responsibility no longer apply. For obesity and alcohol addiction there are clinical treatments, which are reimbursed. That's even possible for game addiction. But when it comes to debilitated smokers, who fail to quit smoking, there is no clinical treatment available. 50PLUS is huge for the smoke-free generation. I have heard a lot of parties tonight about children, but I have the feeling that we are simply leaving that group of destitute smokers, who want to stop but can't, in the addiction trap of the tobacco industry to their fate. We can't do that either. Yes, we are committed to ensuring that no child becomes addicted to cigarettes, but I also think that we should still help that older group, which wants to quit smoking, but which just doesn't succeed. Therefore, there should be more room for clinical treatment. We can finance this clinical treatment from the tobacco industry's compensation. What does the Secretary of State think of this and is he prepared to organise this clinical treatment and submit the claim to the tobacco industry? I've got the RIVM quickscan here. It states that ambitions for problematic alcohol consumption and overweight cannot be achieved with the agreed package of actions and objectives. It soon becomes clear when you see the figures 2, 3 and 4 from the quickscan. I got him right here. That's when you see big holes. You can see that there is a big gap between the trend over the coming years and the impact of the measures taken. That hole, or rather those holes, because it actually applies everywhere to................................................................................................................................................................................................................... What are the Secretary of State's thoughts on this? As far as measures against obesity are concerned, they are also doing better in Great Britain. The sugar tax has proved to be a great success and the introduction of taxes on sugary soft drinks has led many producers to significantly reduce the quantity of sugar in their products. To stimulate healthy food, a sugar tax and a price reduction for fruit and vegetables are important instruments. As the Secretary of State would prefer to make the price of a pack of cigarettes €20, you can also tackle unhealthy food. Several spokesmen have already said that. We are also looking forward to the new food logo and hope that it will come soon. Then an important point for 50PLUS. When it comes to obesity, 50PLUS is happy with the attention to movement. Moving is not only beneficial when it comes to overweight, but is beneficial in many diseases. I read in the agreement a number of measures for children. They are needed, because there are a lot of kids these days who can't even catch a ball anymore. But I don't read anything about movement plans in the elderly. Older people are also overweight, and for them it is even "use it or lose it." Movement is at least as important to them as it is for children. I wonder how important it is for the Secretary of State to consider these moves for the elderly and whether he would like to draw more attention to them in his talks with municipalities. The agreement is a good start and is now ready to come back with new, sharper measures, because more needs to be done. Briefly, 50PLUS would like compensation from the tobacco industry, which would allow a fund to be set up to treat severely addicted smokers clinically. We want a licensing system for selling tobacco, better labelling of healthy food and more attention to moving among older people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u89	Thank you, Mrs Sazias. I now give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u90	Thank you, Mr President. Who doesn't remember that you had compartments on the train where you could smoke or there was a glass of cigarettes on the table? Now we find that impossible. The number of smokers in society is falling and the smoke-free generation is really in sight. Policy and regulation can influence people's behavior positively. Of course, a healthy lifestyle is primarily the responsibility of the people themselves, but it also concerns society. By investing in prevention, we ensure that people stay healthy for longer and keep future healthcare costs lower. Now we spend a lot of money on after-care, but isn't it much better to invest in front, in prevention? It's also about justice. People in a socio-economically worse position live four to five years shorter and have worse health. So there's work to be done. The Christian Union represents a society in which our young people grow up healthy and free from addiction. This requires a government that takes responsibility, and sometimes rules are needed to do so, and a society that shows commitment. I would like to begin by congratulating the Secretary of State for concluding this comprehensive agreement on prevention in society. I strongly invite those organisations that are still in doubt to join. Mr. Chairman. First, overweight. Health funds report that there are almost 13,000 deaths every year due to unhealthy nutrition. What do you mean, food? Look at all the jars, bags and trays: too often that is not food, but filling. Sneak sugar is being poured into us with the dolphin. One in six children is too fat and about half of the adults too. What the supermarket puts on the shelf is on your plate at night. The agreement on improving product composition was promised to improve, but the scientific advisory committee's report shows that the food sector has fallen fat. There are good examples, certainly, but these are exceptions. The Christian Union wants the successor to that agreement to work. This requires clear reduction targets and a timetable. Is the Secretary of State taking this? Mr. Chairman. 80% of all commercials are about unhealthy food. The Christian Union wants 80% of the advertisements to be about products from the Disk of Five. In a Nieuwspoort debate, the director of the CBL said that is, say, the boss of all supermarkets. So we can start tomorrow, and I hope the Secretary of State already has an appointment with him. We are eagerly looking forward to the food choice logo. My question is: does the new food choice logo fit with the Disk of Five? Then I'll come to alcohol. Alcohol consumption seems to be socially accepted, despite the health advice that one glass of alcohol already describes as harmful. It is good that 0.0-beer is making a huge flight, but at the same time RIVM has said that the ambitions of the agreement are far from being achieved with the measures that are now being taken. We know that three things help: less marketing, a higher price and less availability. It is good that measures are being taken to reduce the reach and influence of young people, but when will this become concrete? I'm assuming we don't get years of research first. In addition, legislation has been announced to counter beer stunts. That's a good first step. Why has a minimum price not been chosen, as in Scotland? In fact, there is one in tobacco as well, because of the increase in excise duties. I'd like a response. When it comes to availability, there is a bill from colleague Ziegs of the VVD about blurring. This allows the sale and use of alcohol in many more places. Studies clearly show that increasing the availability of alcohol does not help to reduce problematic alcohol consumption. There is also a very negative impact analysis. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that this proposal undermines the objectives of the Prevention Agreement? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The third issue in the agreement concerns smoking. Every day 75 children start smoking two, three school classes full And every year, 20,000 people die from smoking. When you start smoking, you choose to smoke, but when you're addicted, you don't have a choice. In the area of smoking, the State Secretary takes measures to limit the advertising and visibility of smoke products. Very well, but I would like to say to all the drugstores, bookshops and supermarkets: take your own responsibility and just quit. It cannot be explained that lethal means have become a earning model. It is good that cigarettes will be considerably more expensive in the coming years, that smoking rooms will be closed and that schools will become completely smoke-free. These are fine measures, but in the meantime the latest compliance figures for tobacco sales are very disappointing. Despite all the measures and legislation, young people under 18 can still easily get cigarettes. In fact, compliance has even deteriorated. Now the three strikes out principle applies. This measure has only been imposed at one point of sale, while 24% of the cases found an infringement. Isn't it time to maintain immediately, without a second and a third chance?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u91	I very much agreed with the Christian Union's comments on blurring: if you create more possibilities, it will also be used more, for example in the consumption of alcohol. The same applies, of course, to the use of tobacco. Now there is a proposal, promoted by the specialists in the Netherlands, to introduce a licensing system to limit sales to tobacco specialty stores. This has two advantages: you have fewer outlets, so tobacco consumption decreases, and enforcement becomes easier. How's D66... No, what's the Christian Union like in that? How's Mrs. Fat-Faber in there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u92	It is no secret that the Christian Union also very much wants sales to be limited to tobacco specialty stores. Of course! I am therefore pleased that this Prevention Agreement, which has been widely supported, has included a reduction in the number of sales points. For this, however, we need to identify the number of points of sale and we need to focus on reducing the number of points of sale. I have seen that certain companies and supermarkets take responsibility for this. Is that enough? No. For me, the aim is really to limit the tobacco sector. Did we set that up tomorrow? No, I didn't. I'm sorry about that, too, but that's the reality we're running into. I see an agreement here that puts in a very good move and also brings the smoke-free generation into the picture. I'm so happy about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u93	Your last interruption, Mr. Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u94	I know, Madam President. Can I conclude that the Christian Union is actually in favour of restricting the sale of tobacco to tobacco shops, which is actually a deep wish of the Christian Union? I will table a motion to that effect with a number of other parties, and I also warmly invite the Christian Union to co-sign it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u95	I would like to respond briefly, Mr President. I am, of course, looking forward to the motion. I note that the SP is now also a strong supporter of an anti-smoking policy. I also invited the SP once to vote for a smoking ban in the hospitality industry, but then I didn't get the support of the SP. I was kind of sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u96	I have listened to Mrs Dik-Faber for a while now and heard a very concerned story about the possibility that more might happen. She congratulated the Secretary of State, one of the Christian Union executives in this cabinet, for the broad support. But then there are a lot of things that Mrs Dik-Faber says: this has yet to happen, and that still has to be done. Didn't your secretary of state actually add too much water to the wine?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u97	I think there's a Secretary of State here full of ambition. If he had written the chord on his own, there would have been something else in it. If the Christian Union Group had written the agreement alone, there would have been something else in it and if your group had done so, I am sure. I really find the added value of this agreement that it has been widely supported by so many organisations in society. Is that enough? No, it's not enough. Of course, I have also seen the RIVM's credit transfers, so I also think that more needs to be done. I read in the agreement that we look at where we stand every year, whether things should be different, whether it should be a little less, or whether the policy is sufficient or whether there should be a rule. So we keep our finger on the wrist every year to see how we can achieve that goal. Again, I also see a lot of organisations in our society, besides those who have already signed, who are not yet participating. So I really strongly invite everyone to sign and get to work as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u98	I know Mrs Dik-Faber as someone with a great heart for prevention. We also often hang out, in the areas of smoking and alcohol. And even in the field of food, but that's where it gets the hardest. I would therefore like to ask what Mrs Dik-Faber thinks about the fact that in the Climate Agreement, even though we are not going to achieve the objectives, we must achieve a ratio of 40/60, 40 animal and 60 plant and that this Secretary of State, with his Prevention Agreement, is still assuming 50/50. That sounds like an opportunity to me. It's just a tiny little thing that you might be able to adjust, but that you would have to align. The next question is how do we get there? Mrs Dik-Faber knows as well as I do that we have tried to stimulate and seduce without commitment and that it does not work. Shouldn't we be on top of that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u99	It is good to hear that Mrs Ouwehand has put the documents so side by side. I believe that the ambition is indeed 40 animal and 60 plant. This is an ambition which is good for the environment, but which is also very good for our health. That is why I think it is important that this issue should be included and included in the Prevention Agreement. I see that movement is already going on in our society. The Food Centre also gives a lot of advice on this. That is what I see at the moment, so I am just looking for the measures that Mrs Ouwehand wants to propose to give that development a boost. I also debate a lot with Mrs Ouwehand in the Committee on Agriculture. When it comes to livestock farming, we're a little bit different. Let's be honest about that, too. Perhaps we can set the subject of protein transition without talking about livestock farming, because that is really what distinguishes us. Mrs Ouwehand wants to reduce livestock farming from the government and thus initiate the protein transition, and my group says: we are moving towards circular farming, we are seeing a change in society and what is still needed from the government?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u100	I am asking because Mrs Dik-Faber was right to talk about RIVM. That has looked at the Prevention Agreement and said that we are not going to achieve the ambition with the measures: the ambition is very nice, but we are not going to make it. It is not the first time that we have been reminded by an authoritative institution that the policies we conduct and the ambitions we have are not compatible. The Environment and Infrastructure Council has also looked at what we need to do with food, which, like many others, strongly recommends price incentives, as I have mentioned in my contribution. Scientists say make healthy food cheaper and unhealthy food more expensive. This also applies to sustainability, i.e. a price incentive: meat and dairy more expensive and fruit and vegetables cheaper. Would the Christian Union feel that way?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u101	In fact, I would like to propose to Mrs Ouwehand that we go to work together in a supermarket, because I am convinced that at the moment when we are going to steer from the government with differentiation in taxes, it just becomes incredibly complicated and that at the moment a supermarket doesn't stand in the way of changing margins. There are supermarkets that have said: we are not going through the VAT increase on fruit and vegetables and we are going through that price increase on other products. These are the supermarkets that I think we should all take as an example. So it's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u102	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u103	I would like Mrs Ouwehand to accept the invitation, because it seems very interesting. Mr. Chairman. The Christian Union does not want to stop in a smoke-free society, but also wants to work for a drug-free society. The recreational use of nitrous oxide is now widespread among young people, with major risks to health and the environment. Many municipalities and festivals have already declared bans, but that is not enough for us. My group wants to ban the sale of nitrous oxide for recreational use. There is no other way, because municipalities are calling the alarm bells. They say that we do not really have enough instruments in our hands at the moment to manage this properly. I'd like to hear from the Secretary of State's reaction to that. Mr. Chairman. Today's thread is: choose for commerce or our health? It's as simple as that. It is clear that the Christian Union believes that this Prevention Agreement is a good start and that more organisations and more measures can and should be added in the near future. I see a Secretary of State with ambitions and I would like to hear what role he sees for himself to further develop this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u104	Thank you very much, Mrs Dik-Faber. I now give the floor to Mr Renkema on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u105	Thank you. Mr. Chairman. A few years ago there was much to do in philosophy about whether or not free will existed. Is man at all able to choose autonomously, do good, or are we our brains and is free will really an illusion? Most philosophers come to a kind of middle position: man is able to choose for himself, but always does so within a given framework. All freedom is relative. In fact, today's debate is about a very fundamental question: what is freedom of choice? Are you free when you make an unhealthy choice, even if that choice reduces your own freedom to make free choices later in your life? Because every year 20,000 Dutch people die from smoking. Every year, more than 25,000 children start smoking. Is there any freedom of choice for them if you're addicted? Every year 13,000 Dutch die because of unhealthy nutrition, because of too much sugar, too much fat. Is that a consequence of their choice, or of the environment that makes them unhealthy choices? GroenLinks believes in freedom of choice, but sees that the environment in which people choose is not always geared to their well-being and health. Our Constitution gives the government every opportunity for preventive action. It states, in Article 22, that the public authorities are taking measures to promote public health. But this cabinet does little to make unhealthy choices more expensive and does almost nothing to make healthy choices cheaper. This cabinet has made fruit and vegetables much more expensive. The Prevention Agreement has many signatures, because this Secretary of State is committed to acceptance, but the package of measures is absolutely insufficient in our view. That's not just a political judgment. The Rijksinstituut voor Volksgezondheid en Milieu, RIVM, concludes that the measures taken by this cabinet are completely insufficient to meet the ambitions. So without progress reports, interim evaluations or whatever, we already know that this agreement is inadequate. Mr. Chairman. I think the Secretary of State knows very well what is needed, because he knows Article 22 of our Constitution. He is well aware that his agreed package of measures is inadequate. In fact, in the media, he himself says he wanted to move on. So the key question is: why does the government not take the measures necessary for our public health? The answer is simple: this Prevention Agreement is too much co-written by industry. It was not the parliament that was involved in the substantive process, but the industry. My group has great difficulty with that. The pen of industry can be read back on every page and the process is therefore democratically questionable. The cabinet again shows that the consent of multinationals is more important than support in this parliament, even more important than people's health. I think that's an extremely missed opportunity. That is why three questions to the Secretary of State. Would the results have been different if the industry hadn't been at the table? Is he satisfied himself, or should it have been more ambitious? And does this agreement actually have the support of medical experts? They're not sitting here in the public gallery for nothing. I am overwhelmed by doctors and health organisations who have serious reservations about this agreement. Good information is crucial in order to make healthy choices. The Secretary of State is currently investigating a new food labelling system. But here too GroenLinks has only one message: do not let the industry hijack you and opt for an independent label. Mr. Chairman. Since the early 1990s, soft drink consumption has increased by a quarter. The number of overweight adults has since increased by half. This cabinet does little to reduce sugar intake. My question is why? The most effective means of making a sugar tax is not included in the government's plans. Several studies have already shown that this is an effective and effective instrument. This applies to many different countries. How does the absence of the sugar tax relate to the coalition agreement? It states that the measures taken by the Cabinet in the field of prevention must be proven to be effective. Then why is this proven effective instrument missing? Is it true that this measure was lost at a late stage because there was no support for industry? Two thirds of young people are in favour of introducing such a soft drink tax. In the future generation there is plenty of support. With the PvdA GroenLinks will present today a proposal for such a sugar tax. Mr. Chairman. I am pleased that international agreements have made it impossible for the tobacco industry to participate. Well, here's a price measure. But why is it being phased in? Why an evaluation first in 2021? Is the Secretary of State prepared to introduce a licensing system? He wants the first smoke-free generation in 2040 while Finland wants it in 2030. Shouldn't he also adjust his ambition in this respect? Then it's about alcohol. How credible is it that a government party is currently developing a proposal to allow blurring to sell alcohol by non-hospital services? Would the Secretary of State like to publicly distance himself from this initiative proposal tonight? Mr. Chairman. Wise prevention policies mean that unhealthy options become more expensive and healthy options cheaper. It is crucial that all socio-economic classes are able to live healthy. My group therefore believes, as is also stated in our counter-budget, that the increase in VAT on fruit and vegetables should be reversed. Would the Secretary of State like to discuss this in the Cabinet? Finally. I'm worried about kids and kids. That's where the tide has to turn. Too many kids are growing up unhealthy right now. In countries such as Sweden and Finland, children have been receiving healthy school meals from the government for decades. This ensures that all children, including children with poor parents, can grow up healthy. Has the Secretary of State considered implementing such a programme in the Netherlands and, if not, is he prepared to map revenue and costs for it? Young people benefit from good guidance and information. Youth doctors can be used more widely to improve the health of young people. Think of a consultation session at a vo-school where students can ask questions about sexuality, vaccinations, alcohol or drugs. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that youth doctors can play a role in this and is he prepared to use it? I read in the newspaper this summer that the Secretary of State said: I am seen by some as the left wing of the cabinet. What's in a name? As far as I'm concerned, he's gonna live up to that name tonight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u106	Thank you. Mr Veldman has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u107	In my term I have formulated a number of wishes that we as a VVD have, namely to postpone the introduction of the displayban for a year and to exempt cigars more than 3 grams from the new rules contained in the National Prevention Agreement. Does the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance share this desire of the VVD?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u108	As I said earlier this evening, I spoke to people in the retail sector who are now looking at these measures and saying: that is a huge investment and we will also lose revenue. I see their interest in this matter, and I believe that the VVD has drawn attention to this tonight, but I think it is more important to achieve the objectives of the Prevention Agreement in terms of smoking. So an exception for a special product or an addition of new products is not going to support the GroenLinks group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u109	Thank you, Mr Renkema. I now give the floor to Mrs Ploumen on behalf of the PvdA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u110	Mr. Chairman. 30 years ago, I quit smoking. I never dared to touch a cigarette again after that. In fact, I sometimes dream that is a very nasty dream, that someone is offering me a cigarette, that I forgot that I quit smoking, that I smoke again and that I have to go back to rehab. The only thing I've ever allowed myself to do is sit a little too close to a gitanes smoker. I'm so sorry, but I'm not the only one who's addicted. A lot of people are addicted. Of course, that is also a bit up to us, but the real big culprit is the tobacco industry. Our government, this cabinet, let all that happen. At the expense of your health, mine and, more importantly, those of our children, tobacco manufacturers are allowed to add all kinds of substances to cigarettes that increase the chance of addiction even further. The food industry may add extra sugar and unnecessary salt to make products feel even easier in the mouth. Alcohol producers are allowed to bump at prices, and that's all right. And they're all lobbying. The Prevention Agreement, despite the efforts of this Secretary of State, also reads a bit like: who has the most influence in The Hague. The stricter the measures, the less well the lobbyist has done his job. Mr. Chairman. These lobbyists find hearing, here in the Chamber, but also at those tables of the Secretary of State, where we, as representatives of the Dutch people, were not. One of the most important tasks of the government, of the cabinet's colleagues said that even though... is to protect public health. This paternalistic Prevention Agreement fails to do so. The cabinet is asking people for everything: I can't do this anymore, I have to do it less, I have to do it much more. But the industry is out of the question. The PvdA finds: people over multinationals. Governments must make sound choices possible and not, as with this agreement, throw billions of profits at the expense of our health and our children. So not only the smoker, but the tobacco industry needs to be dealt with. This is particularly true, because the polluter pays. It is therefore necessary to set up a tobacco addiction fund to which the tobacco industry will contribute. Mr Van Gerven and others have already spoken about this. That fund has to help people get rid of their addiction. Young people have to be made much harder to start smoking, to light that first cigarette most people still know, I did it with a niece, in the back of the orchard when I was 12, of course, a fatal moment. It must therefore be made much more difficult for young people to light the first cigarette. The PvdA wants more punitive measures than the Secretary of State is proposing. Prevent cigarettes from being sold on the corner of each street, introduce a licensing system, drastically reduce the number of outlets and increase the age limit for tobacco sales to 21 years. The food industry must also contribute to our health, rather than just the thickness of their shareholders' wallets. Because how can you, as a consumer, make healthy choices if 1 kilo of grapefruit costs €2.99 and 1 kilo of fricandells €1.61? Others also said it: if 80% of the offers in supermarkets are outside that healthy Five Disk and if all kinds of tools like logos are actually disguised marketing tools of manufacturers, instead of honest ways to inform us. The Prevention Agreement has the ambition to reduce the number of overweight adults to the level of the 1990s, i.e. from 50% to 38%, if I have read it correctly. But why is this ambition so low? I have just said in an interruption: the RIVM calculated that, despite all good intentions, the present Prevention Agreement is far from enough to achieve, for example, this little ambitious objective. The government needs to do more to make healthy food attractive to people, to make it accessible. So one: enter a sugar tax. We will make a proposal together with GroenLinks. Two: healthy food must become cheaper. I'd like to hear the Secretary of State's proposals. And three: ban all forms of child marketing. I'd like a response. Mr President, my penultimate point. In a society like ours, wealthy, free, fine to live in, everyone should have access to healthy food. But it's not. I live in Amsterdam Nieuw-West. In my neighbourhood in Amsterdam Nieuw-West people live six years less than in Amsterdam-Zuid. Where would the people with the most money live? You can see these differences when children are five months old. Is that the fault of the parents in New West? No, not at all! I know these people. They're doing their best. Sometimes they have to have two jobs to make ends meet. The fact is that in this Prevention Agreement too, not enough is being done for those people. What additional measures does the Secretary of State intend to take to help those people to make the healthy choices? Finally, Mr President. I'm missing a chapter. There's no attention to drug use. Drug use is of all times. A lot of attention is rightly paid to combating, but we must also help people with the health problems they have and get through drug use. I would like to propose to the Secretary of State to investigate what is the most effective policy per drug. How can we better inform people? Could there be more test sites? Will the Secretary of State undertake to add that chapter? Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State did his best, but it's not enough. This is not enough for the PvdA. The Prevention Agreement must be renewed. We want a better agreement, an agreement that exists for people and not for multinationals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u111	Thank you. Mr. Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u112	I would also like to ask Mrs Ploumen whether the wishes I expressed in my first term regarding the postponement of the display ban and the different handling of the rules for cigars are supported by the Labour Party. It is precisely because of its name that this party should be very much in favour of entrepreneurs who also create jobs in all those beautiful convenience stores that we have in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u113	It's even stronger. I myself am the child of a middleman; my father was a milkman. We also sold cigarettes. That wasn't easy for my dad. But even when I was talking about 40 years ago, it was quite difficult to manage as a small businessman. The cigarettes were an easy source of income. So I am aware of the considerations, but this agreement contains measures which are very realistic and do not come out of the blue. In fact, everyone knows them. I am convinced that those entrepreneurs with heart for their business and heart for their neighborhood will succeed in keeping to this agreement, because they too want healthy customers. So no, we won't support that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u114	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Against every euro we spend in the Netherlands on healthcare, we only spend a few cents on health. That relationship is crooked and requires action. The CDA welcomes this ambitious Prevention Agreement as the first important step in this direction. CDA and D66 took the initiative for a national prevention agreement. I would like to congratulate the Secretary of State on this Prevention Agreement, which is before us today. Many thanks also to all partners and civil society organisations. Together we fight against overweight, smoking and excessive alcohol consumption. I will deal with the agreement along three lines of action and conclude with a look at the future. What kind of smoker wants his own kids to smoke? Nobody. The focus on the smoke-free generation is very important. There will also be a campaign about smoking-free growing up. The question to the Secretary of State is whether combating smoking in the car in front of children is also part of this. The CDA would like more insight and grip on the sale of tobacco. Does the Secretary of State wish to carry out a zero measurement and inform the Chamber annually about the evolution of the number of outlets? If it is up to the CDA, tobacco is ultimately only sold in tobacco specialty stores. I call on all supermarkets in the Netherlands, like the Lidl, to take their social responsibility and stop selling tobacco products. The CDA welcomes the agreement to reduce the salt, sugar and fat content of products. We would like to be able to monitor progress. Can the Secretary of State explain how the number of improved products relates to total production, so that the Chamber can see the impact of the agreements made on the daily intake of salt, sugar and fats?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u116	Could the CDA explain to us why it makes sense to tackle the tobacco industry and the use of tobacco hard and legalise the hashish and the joint?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u117	That is a very valid point. I'll come back to that at the end of my story, looking forward to the future. If your question has not been answered, I would say: please report.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u118	That's very kind, but it's just a question. You were talking about tobacco. You said, no one wants their children to smoke; it must be forbidden. Then why do you think it makes sense to support every initiative in which the joint is legalized?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u119	For the CDA, of course, that's a point we're not for. I don't think that's new. You make a coalition agreement and that's what an experiment comes out of, but I think it's pretty clear that the CDA doesn't want that. That is the outcome of the coalition agreement. That can't be news for the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u120	No, but it's funny. We've had the VVD say: you only file motions if you get a majority, otherwise your opinion doesn't matter anymore. You now believe that we must protect young people and society from harmful products, but you do allow a new harmful product to be legalised, a product that is also found interesting by many young people and tempts many young people to start. Isn't that contrary not only to what you think, but also to this agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u121	Firstly, it is not legalized. It's a trial, an experiment, that's the outcome of a coalition agreement. I fully agree with you that it is extremely damaging for young people to start doing so. In the last part of my story, I will also come back to the fact that prevention is extremely important when it comes to drugs. I hope I can find you by my side in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u122	But...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u123	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u124	With all due respect, big words are used here all night long. And rightly so, because smoking is bad. Smoking kills people. But we want to introduce and allow new harmful products in a number of other areas. It is legalized. For the past 30 years, we've given young people the idea that soft drugs aren't that bad at all: well, try it, all fun, freedom, joy. Now we're gonna legalize it. There's even talk of smoking it if you don't put tobacco through it. There's a proposal to vaporize marijuana, too. That is even proposed by this Secretary of State. That's contrary to all the other plans. My only question is: explain why that makes sense. How does that fit in with the whole story of all those excited people tonight?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u125	Ha! Again, it's not legalization; it's an experiment. And I fully agree with the PVV that prevention is important and that we need to tackle the standardisation of drugs. There must be a change of attitude, as is currently the case with smoking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u126	Mrs Ploumen, one last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u127	Sure, one last question. I'm aware of that. I would like to take Mrs Kuik back to her last point on the use of sugar, salt and fats. She spoke wisely about it. She really wants the Secretary of State to monitor. I would like to put the following to her. I'm sure she knows what I'm gonna ask. Together with colleague Renkema van GroenLinks I advocate a sugar tax. I know that the CDA voted to do so. I believe it was even in your draft election programme. What do I have to do to get Mrs. Kuik's signature under that motion? I ask this because we share the feeling that this can be an appropriate way to help people make good choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u128	I think we are very much in agreement that huge amounts of salt and sugar have been added to the products. That is why I am pleased that there is an agreement with the supermarkets to reduce this. So that's a point we're addressing. What does Mrs Ploumen have to do to get the CDA to speak out for a sugar tax? As Mrs Ploumen may know, we have had a conference on this subject. That's where this was voted out of the CDA's election programme. I also have to take into account my members. That is also political: that you listen to what your Members have said about it. They see more in adjusting these products, which we are now trying to achieve in this agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u129	I would like to ask the same question, because what was the reason for the CDA programme committee to put this in the electoral programme? It was apparently a fine measure for a large part of the CDA's at that time. Otherwise, this wouldn't have come into that concept, would it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u130	This is the case in the parties to discussions on measures. This is how we show Members the choices. I know that there is no mention of a sugar tax in the GroenLinks election programme. Of course, that's special: that you didn't ask your members. The CDA has asked the members to do so and they have made a choice. It's as simple as that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u131	It sounds a bit like moving insights among all parties, but I am curious whether that sugar tax will still appear in the next CDA election programme, now it is clear that the overweight targets are not being met, as the analysis of RIVM shows.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u132	[[Sentence could not be parsed: Zo kijken in de toekomst kan ik natuurlijk niet, maar we hebben wel belangrijke stappen gezet in het reduceren van die producten.]] But I also have a question for the Secretary of State on this point. We have now seen a number of products where this happens, but how big is the total? Then we can also see the impact on that. I ask the Secretary of State: give us an insight into that. Then we also have an idea of the impact this has.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u133	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u134	Mr President, I shall continue. When cauliflower is on offer, people eat more cauliflower. However, the vast majority of offers at supermarkets are unhealthy products. Does the Secretary of State want to talk to the CBL about whether the price incentive for healthy products can be improved? It is an important task to reach people in a relatively poor socio-economic situation. Income and level of education are closely related to health. How exactly does the Secretary of State intend to reach them? Mr. Chairman. I took part in the action for 40 days without alcohol. When you're actively working on that, you notice all the temptations. It is good that we take action to raise awareness and tackle excessive drinking. For young people alcohol is even more harmful, because their brains are still developing. A good start is therefore also important. That is why we must also strive to ensure that the number of pregnant people who drink is zero. We also see that schools, universities and the National Chamber of Associations want to take their role. What can we find out about that in the upcoming school and study year? I have seen for myself what kind of difference enthusiastic and competent educators, such as pediatrician Nico van der Lely, can make. Is there room for this type of education at the Healthy School? Finally, is the study of minimum prices also taking into account social support in addition to the effectiveness of such a measure? Mr. Chairman. Then take a look at the sequel. We are rightly working on a smoke-free generation, but in the meantime it is becoming increasingly normal to use coke and xtc during the night out. A fellow student of mine died from one of those pills. So there are other poignant stories. Prevention of drug use is a must. Users are also involved in maintaining a criminal circuit, undermining and drug waste. It is selfish own pleasure with disastrous consequences for society. Politics cannot afford to be laconic about the use of drugs in the Netherlands. What does it do to young people when politics shrugs its shoulders when it comes to using ecstasy or coke and says "go ahead"? That blurs the social norm. As far as the CDA is concerned, action is needed to combat the standardisation of drugs in society. Here too, there is no parent who says to his daughter, "Are you bored? Then take a line of coke, sweetheart." Or, "Take a pill, it'll make you feel better." A change of attitude, as we can see in smoking, is needed so that the standardization of drugs can be stopped. The consequences of nitrous oxide use have in any case been felt by many municipalities this summer. I hope so in this house, too. We need to respond to the call by municipalities, parents and event organisations to legally restrict the use of nitrous oxide. The CDA has long advocated a ban on the sale of nitrous oxide as a party drug. I would like to hear from the Secretary of State how he can use regulations to deal with this sale in the short term. It's not something to repeat laconically. In particular, I want our young people to know that their health is important enough for us to worry about in politics. Mr President, so far.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u135	Thank you. Mr Veldman has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u136	Until recently, I was on behalf of my group economic affairs spokesman and I have seen more often in debates with Mrs Kuik's colleagues that the CDA is trying to have a heart for SMEs. So also to Mrs Kuik whether she really has that heart for SMEs and shares the VVD's desire to give those small entrepreneurs an extra year to introduce the displayban and, for example, to exempt that beautiful cigar factory in Kampen, De Olifant, from the additional rules for cigars heavier than 3 grams.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u137	In the Netherlands, 3.5 million people smoke. 2 million will die from the consequences of smoking. Tobacco is not an ordinary product, it is not a normal product. We have set a deadline in the Prevention Agreement which is very clear and very broad. Entrepreneurs can respond to this. Entrepreneurs are people who make sure they are aware of the rules and renew them in order to survive. So I think entrepreneurs are very capable of giving hands and feet to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u138	Thank you. Mrs. Sazias? No, she was on her way to see Mr Van Gerven. Mrs Diertens on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am glad that we are here today to discuss this important issue. A National Prevention Agreement has now been concluded with the support of dozens of organisations. These are not only business service providers, but also patient organisations, healthcare providers, health insurance companies, municipalities, sports associations, sports associations, companies and civil society organisations. This agreement deals with smoking, overweight and problematic alcohol consumption. Smoking isn't exactly a nice habit. My group supports the smoke-free generation and is therefore satisfied with the measures on smoking. Raising the price per pack of cigarettes is an effective measure. It is good that we can increase the price by increasing excise duties to a tenner per package in 2023. I would like to ask the Secretary of State if he would like to sit down with his colleague in Finance to write down the ambition of €10 in 2023 already in the 2020 Tax Plan. I'd like a response. Then overweight, or a healthy life. I see in the text a lot of terms such as 'targeting' and 'betting on', but I do not read enough concrete, enforceable measures. RIVM also indicates that the ambitions are far from being met. 11% of people suffer from malnutrition and 13% of people suffer from obesity. That's serious. For example, the motion by me and my D66 colleague, De Groot, on child marketing is not yet a good one in this agreement. Only existing agreements are repeated. These are often agreements on advertising codes, but they do not apply to shelves and packaging. The motion calls for child marketing only to be applied to products from the Disk of Five. Why is this Secretary of State not carrying out this adopted motion directly? I'd like a response. Then there is my colleague De Groot's motion on food as part of the Prevention Agreement. In the area of healthy food, things are still going through different ministries. There is a danger that work may be carried out alongside each other, which sometimes turns out to be also called "reinventory" and that the wheel will have to be re-invented over and over again. We want an agreement on the coordination of various initiatives in the field of healthy food. I would also like to comment on this. Mr. Chairman. Although the urban population has traditionally been seen as less healthy than the rural population, recent research has shown that healthy eating outside the city has become more difficult. In shrinking areas, especially in Friesland, Groningen, Drenthe and South Limburg, people with lower incomes and lower levels of education are left behind. Those are groups that have a higher weight on average, but that does not mean that they are not malnourished in terms of good nutrients. And although there are plenty of overweight health programmes for cities, there are hardly any for rural communities. I would like to see health programmes in the form of living labs specifically targeted at rural communities. They should focus on healthy nutrition, more exercise and psychosocial guidance to sustain behavioural change, and at least include municipalities, psychosocial assistance and insurers. Finally, on the cities. We see that the participation of sport in disadvantaged neighbourhoods is lagging behind and that there is also a significant health gain to be achieved. Research by the Mulier Institute, for example, shows that almost half of people with low household income do not play sports. For people with a higher income, that's only 6.5%. Most municipalities now have minimum schemes for young people, but only one in three municipalities has a minimum scheme for adults. How do we get these people to work out and move again? How do we ensure that this group actually has access to recognised Combined Lifestyle Interventions, so that we do not find ourselves in a situation where people in Bloemendaal, Huizen or Overveen have much easier access to the GLI, but people in rural areas and in disadvantaged areas cannot make use of it? I'd like a response from the Secretary of State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u140	Many spokesmen have also spoken about the need for additional efforts on drug prevention. I'm actually curious if D66 agrees with that and is also shocked about, for example, the report on Amsterdam.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u141	I'm glad to hear about that and the investigation into it. I think we need to distinguish two things very well. Me and my party don't want all the drugs going underground again. We have seen in the past, in history, that this also does not lead to very good, healthy movements in our society. I believe that we must fight crime in every area, including in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u142	But my point is that you hear now, and also see in the report on Amsterdam, that it has become so normal. The effects are not only harmful to health, but there is also disruption and crime. Let's really say goodbye to that mentality of "ah, drugs are a bit of a part of it." It's totally out of control. Let us make much more effort to prevent drug use. Is D66 gonna make a point of that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u143	I just think there's going to be a big experiment, which the CDA also mentioned. We will wait for that and we will have that discussion, but you also know, like me, that if one drug is combated, another drug can be added. I think we should watch how we deal with resources that aren't good for you. That doesn't mean you can't have a glass of wine anymore, because for people who occasionally drink a glass of wine, that's not unhealthy. But overall: if it becomes problematic and it becomes an addiction, then it is unhealthy. So I think we should take care of that as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u144	I think prevention is important in all areas. I heard D66 was talking about an environment where you can or can't move. Then I thought I should ask about the green environment, because I didn't get to that in my own contribution anymore. Years ago, the Party for Animals asked the Cabinet to discuss with municipalities to ensure sufficient greenery in the area. It's just kids that grow up healthier. In fact, I do not read back much about this in the Prevention Agreement and I am curious to see what is going on. Actually, I'm using this interruption to ask if D66 is curious about that too, because then we can ask the Secretary of State together. A green environment and a green playing environment for children: what is the state of play?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u145	That was your last interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u146	I will gladly pass this question on to the Secretary of State. I'm also a sports spokesperson, as you know. In this capacity as well as in the D66 election programme, we are also in favour of a green environment, but also for a living environment in which elderly people are challenged to take a nice walk in which there is a habitation, so that they get a better condition.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u147	Satisfied, Mrs. Old Hand? That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u148	I'm back, Mr. Chairman. Perhaps Mrs Diertens already knows what my question will be and perhaps she can just answer yes or no. The question is whether a party such as D66 is a party that will stand for entrepreneurs. With their industry organisation they accept the rule as such. They're not happy about it, but they accept it. But they're asking for a decent time to stick to the rule. Is D66 a party that supports this desire of the entrepreneurs, whatever my wish and that of the VVD, in terms of displayban and cigars heavier than 3 grams?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u149	Before I was in the Chamber, I was a fellow entrepreneur. So I have some empathy with regard to your question. I do believe, however, that, in view of the coalition agreement, there has been a great deal of time to intervene and even anticipate. Very little has happened. I actually think there has been enough time to anticipate this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u150	Can Mrs Diertens tell me if there are any differences between the internet consultation that took place in 2017 and the regulation that the Secretary of State is now proposing?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u151	I think you want to come back to the fact that a rule is not yet a rule. But I think that an entrepreneur should also have a bit of a vision of how his industry is changing and how he is going to respond to it. I think it sounds very good when you say that a rule is a rule, but I think it's also been clear for a long time that the whole movement is heading towards a smoke-free generation. That's been going on for a long time. You can see that there has been enough time to deal with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u152	Last interruption, Mr. Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u153	I had some difficulty with Mrs Diertens in answering that question. That is a pity, because apparently she is not fully aware that there is a difference between the internet consultation that took place in 2017 and the regulation proposed by the Secretary of State. It's not the same. You and others here keep saying that people already knew what was coming. People didn't know, because the Secretary of State has made a different arrangement than was consulted on the Internet. Entrepreneurs say we're not happy with it, but we're going to stick to that rule. Is it fair to say with a changed rule that they should have it done within a year? Or can we say we give them some space, an extra year?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u154	My grocery store on the corner asked why the cigarettes haven't been covered yet. They have everything in place. They can pull down the racks and then it's done. And their answer is: it's not official yet. So you can turn it around. Many are already prepared for it, but do not yet, because there is no rule yet that it really needs to be covered.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u155	The CDA and D66 are fighting together for a healthier generation. We are also pleased together with the measures that are being taken here. Now we have a topical issue that came out clearly this summer. This is also a health prevention problem, namely nitrous oxide. Can we also go to war together to tackle the recreational use of nitrous oxide?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u156	Of course. I just don't want to work with you in every option very activist and totally combative. We do have something to do with something that has come up and we do not know all about it yet. You can argue about the number of incidents, but there are. It's a real shame there are any of them. However, it is also true that I now feel that we should first see what is really the problem. We need to do more research on this before we include it in this Prevention Agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u157	Mrs. Diertens speaks of incidents. We have seen that from many municipalities, from the local groups and from Utrecht, I think from the whole council, the call came very much: help us now, because we do not have enough handles to deal with this. Does Mrs. Diertens hear that call? Is she hearing that municipalities can't do enough to deal with the excesses? We can see that a number of young people have even become paralyzed, but we can also see that it is simply used in traffic. That is not only a danger to those themselves, but also to others. So on all kinds of points, wide, we see the dangers. Does Mrs. Dierten also think that we should offer municipal handles?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u158	I see municipalities, too. I went to work in municipalities where there were festivals where nitrous gas was used. At some point they said: we are going to ban this, because we can state in the APV that it is not allowed. I just think that there are still enough opportunities for municipalities to keep nitrous oxide out of the door of a festival by means of regulations. On the other hand, the whipped cream syringe is also used for this purpose. I think there are still too many things to think about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u159	We have indeed seen that municipalities in the APV can arrange things. But we also see a store now. There's a nitrous store on the shopping street. What does it do to young people when it's normal on the shopping street to use nitrous oxide? What does it do to young people when they can do it all on the street? Municipalities say they can do something at events. It is very good that municipalities do something about that. But they're asking the politicians in The Hague to help them because they can't handle the sale.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u160	Then I'd like to know how many stores we're talking about. Now I know there's a store, but I don't know if that's a chain of stores that spread it across the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u161	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u162	I'm ready, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u163	Thank you, Mrs. Diertens. I now give the floor to Mr Van der Staaij on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u164	Madam President. If important agreements have been reached, such as in the past period on climate and retirement, then you will see that it is being discussed very quickly in the Chamber, because we think it is very important and want to talk about it quickly. In that respect, I did get behind the ears for a while, when I thought that this Prevention Agreement was concluded in November 2018. Could we conclude from this that this issue is clearly not considered to be so important? I'd be very sorry to hear that. When we look at the content of what is at stake here: preventing obesity, excessive drinking and smoking, it is incredibly important for the future of our society and for the health of young people and the elderly. As far as I am concerned, the fact that we are talking about it so late is certainly not a signal that it is not so important. Although that's not entirely justifiable either, there are all kinds of reasons for.................................................................................................................................................................................................... Sometimes you have to let it stand, if the taste comes to its own. By ripening, the subtle taste and smell come to their senses better. Perhaps that is the case with the National Prevention Agreement. Due to the fact that some time has passed, we see all the more what is needed and what is needed. Mr. Chairman. The dot on the horizon is 2040. In that year the children will no longer know the smell of tobacco smoke. Teenagers think it's normal not to drink a first beer or wine until their 18th birthday. The number of overweight people will have fallen. Dutch people are going to live healthier in the coming years. I see a lot of ambition in the Prevention Agreement. Let me be clear: we support these ambitions. Prevention policy is not a left-wing hobby, any more than smoking, eating and drinking are right-wing hobbies. Prevention is about common sense, in the interests of everyone's health. It is clear that the objectives of the Prevention Agreement are not small beer. However, the measures proposed are, to be honest, sometimes lagging behind what is needed to achieve those objectives. I understand the choice was made for broad support. With that you have a better chance that what you do will actually make it and that there will not be all kinds of parts taken out. At the same time, we also feel impatient to put a shovel on top of it. Only in the area of smoking does the result come close to what the cabinet wants, according to the RIVM assessment. The measures on alcohol consumption and overweight would actually require more to bring about real change. In smoking you can see that tobacco discouragement according to scientific research is based on substantial price increases. That's clear language. Why is the excise duty on cigarettes not being increased even more during this cabinet period, in order to take serious steps here? I also read that there is a desire to reduce the number of tobacco outlets. Here too, there is a viper: in this cabinet period there is only research on how this can be reduced in the future. Could not opportunities be developed this year to seriously reduce the number of points of sale? That could be part of the strategy proposed by RIVM. Then alcohol. According to the government agreement, the cabinet intends to use effective measures in the prevention policy. I see good things, for example that in happy hours the sale of alcohol at stunt prices is banned. Very good. However, certain measures, which we now know are effective, are not being taken: further reduction of alcohol advertising, minimum prices for alcohol, tough local arrangements to maintain the age limit for alcohol sales. A lot of times, then, we're gonna investigate this. Tonight, I am advocating all the possibilities of getting acceleration and taking action. Finish the research on alcohol advertising for the next summer recess. Ask the researchers to propose concrete measures to reduce alcohol marketing. Enter minimum prices for alcohol sales if possible. Get an enforcement protocol on Drinking and Horeca Act by the end of this year. Allow municipalities and the catering industry to make binding agreements on the maintenance of the age limit. I'd like a response to those suggestions. Finally. A number of times the use of drugs is dealt with in the alcohol section. In the last few weeks, it became clear that we really have a big problem with drugs. Drug use is not normal, argues the Prevention Agreement. I would like to join all those who have advocated this evening to take further measures to counter this normalization of drugs. In that respect, I find it a bit unfortunate that the cabinet also comes up with tests to legalise weed cultivation and use of weed. At least experiments are allowed, which actually extends it all again and sends out the signal that there is not so much going on with these drugs. Would it not really be necessary to take new steps again and let the whole experiment sit, in the light of everything that has emerged over the past period about the harmfulness of drug use? I would also very much like to hear a response from the Secretary of State on this point. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u165	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij. I now give the floor to Mr Edgar Mulder on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u166	Mr President, all I'm missing is Mr. Veldman's interruption. Has he gone through his interruptions yet, hasn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u167	Yeah, he's through it. It's all up to him, ma'am... Who exactly did you make them to, Mr. Veldman? You can only speak if you say something nice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u168	Mr President, I had counted five myself. But if Mr Van der Staaij wishes to have my sixth, then I would be happy to put this question to Mr Van der Staaij as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u169	I hear you've already had six.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u170	Yeah, are you sure? Then I see Mr Van der Staaij nodding or shaking his head.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u171	I was wondering if Mr Veldman was really serious about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u172	No, Mr. Van der Staaij, I can't.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u173	He asks that question so many times that you'd almost think he really wants to. But I thought, you know, this isn't a left-wing cabinet. The VVD is just in it, with all those ministers who, of course, immediately see what this means for entrepreneurs. They just let all this go. They said: no, that's fine, that's all possible. Then this is probably just to make good grace to those entrepreneurs. I'd be sorry to hear that. I would like to invite him, if he really wants to make a point of this, to come up with plans tonight to take new, sharper measures to combat tobacco consumption. Then I'm sure there's a chance that other parties will say: okay, if the VVD wants to do this, we'll be able to meet something like that, because then you're going in the right direction. But just messing with the measures and nothing else? That can't be serious.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u174	Mr Veldman may respond to it. This is entrapment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u175	He doesn't have any more interruptions, does he?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u176	I cannot answer any more from Mr Van der Staaij, but this is a kind of entrapment. I understand the entrapment. But first, let's start from the beginning. It started with my question whether the SGP also has a heart for those entrepreneurs and looks at what it does in practice. I think we're gonna find each other on content. In substance, I probably agree with you that we should introduce this measure. In substance, I agree that we are implementing a number of other measures. In terms of content, we may also agree in the future that we will talk again if all these measures do not help, even though all those people who are sitting at the table say that they are going to work. That's why we're proposing them. But for now, do you have a heart for that entrepreneur?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u177	Mr Van der Staaij. This is what you asked for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u178	We certainly have a heart for entrepreneurs, but if we really want to advocate a serious measure in the atmosphere as the VVD does tonight, then I suggest that we really come up with plans to ensure that we don't just go backwards, instead of saying that it has to be a little weaker here and there, when we are actually going to have a difficult time meeting the goals and getting ready to do so. So really come up with plans to narrow down the points of sale or to do other things that will give us a little political space to move in on this. Otherwise I see it bleak, because the VVD first agreed to it in the cabinet. Well, then, it's not very credible to mess around a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u179	Thank you, Mr. Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u180	This is entrapment, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u181	Yeah, everything's entrapment. No. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to... You may be able to respond to it in your second term. No, you can't interrupt anymore. Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Edgar Mulder on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u182	Do you know what's unhealthy? Stop eating normally and give your kids only raw vegetables. That's unhealthy. Nothing about this in this agreement. And do you know what's unhealthy? Lowering citizens' purchasing power in such a way that people avoid care because of the costs. That's unhealthy. Nothing about this in this agreement. And do you know what's unhealthy? Ramadan. Don't let kids eat and drink during the day and stuff sugar at night for a whole month. That's unhealthy. And nothing about this in this agreement. Mr. Chairman. We've got another deal, tables and stuff. And again there is talk about people but not with the people. Perhaps the bobos are afraid that the discussion would then be about the question that is really important, namely whether the government should be allowed to interfere with the private life of adult citizens and, if so, how far. For in our free Western world one thing must be very clear: every adult person, in all reasonableness of course, can decide for himself how he or she lives. That's not the government's concern. The government can provide information. The government can name dangers. The government can help people. But the government must never, ever, dictate to citizens how they should shape their lives. Will the future government ban hamburgers and chocolates? Does everyone have to gym every morning at 7:00 a.m. on the village square? Is the government gonna decide if you're still allowed to play football and ski, given the risk of bone fractures and work failure? Will the Netherlands get a restaurant police to check if there is too much meat on our plate? The PVV says to the Secretary of State. Don't be silly. Let civilians decide how they live. Mr. Chairman. There is a great deal of attention to smoking in this agreement, and rightly so. Smoking is bad, very bad. People die from tobacco. That is why laws must also be strictly enforced, especially in the case of minors. But let's not freak out. Too much Brussels sprouts smell is also bad, especially Brussels sprouts smell in combination with socialist compulsion. Secretary of State, do you really think that a nanny should change before she goes to work because she smoked a cigarette at home in the morning because the clothes might smell like smoke? Speaking of skipping out! The contrast with the approach to smoking pot, hashish and bong is very striking. Everyone knows there's just tobacco smoking in the shishalounges. If the Secretary of State does not know that, he must inform the Dutch Food and War Authority. Indeed, in 2018 it found that 60% of the shishalounges are simply smoked tobacco. In this whole Prevention Agreement, the word bong does not occur once. So the Secretary of State would like to add the e-cigarette to the smoking ban, but the bong he leaves for what it is. I don't understand. I don't understand. I don't understand. Another question to the Secretary of State on smoking and tightening up existing packaging requirements. Following the previous changes on packaging, it was agreed that an evaluation would be carried out to investigate whether this is effective. But there will be new demands now. Has there been or has not been an evaluation and can the Chamber please consider the results of that investigation? Let's move on to alcohol. It could be around this time of year. Here too, the Secretary of State is threatening to shoot through. As PVV, we say don't touch the third half in sports canteens. Are you really going to ban the Holland Heineken House? And then there's the thing with a maximum of 25% off alcohol. That's total bullshit. In the Netherlands you can see where the beer is cheapest on Friday, because for a birthday on the weekend you get two or three crates of beer. Even if there's no discount, you get those crates, because you get visitors anyway. Except you're gonna have to pay more. So it has nothing to do with healthy life. Higher burdens as a goal and alcohol prevention as a means. Apart from that, aren't there any problems other than the price of a beer crate at the Albert Heijn? Smile gas, for example. That's much cheaper than just getting a case of beer and for young people under the age of 18. Then give me the beer. Ending: Health is not fixable. People who live healthy, who exercise, don't drink a drop of alcohol and don't smoke get sick. Encouraging people to live healthier is totally okay, but, again, exaggerating is also a profession. And a little fun and relaxation in life is also important. Get your Brussels sprouts out of here. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u183	Thank you, Mr. Edgar Mulder. I now give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u184	Thank you, Mr President. The Secretary of State has the ambition to improve the health of the Dutch population. But is that going to work with this agreement? In collaboration with no less than 70 organisations, a beautiful vision of the future is outlined in which the Dutch population will move more and smoke, overweight and alcohol consumption will be tackled. The RIVM reviewed the measures in terms of effectiveness and what appears to be the case? The proportion of adult smokers indeed falls to the target set, but only in 2040. And overweight, according to RIVM, will increase rather than decrease despite the agreement. The percentage of problematic alcohol consumption in the proposed measures is only slightly reduced. Those aren't projections to be happy about, are they? Does the Secretary of State want to reflect on whether this reflects the image he has of healthy society and its role in it? Large-scale four-yearly research by the University of Twente, the Trimbos Institute and the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau shows that the Netherlands is not at all at the forefront of smoking, alcohol consumption and the consumption of unhealthy food at present. We're a little hooting in the middle. Despite all the fine words, I cannot escape the impression that the current proposal will result in the Secretary of State falling into a slow waltz with the producers and suppliers of unhealthy products, without imposing harsh requirements. In what way is it fair that those whose original earning model is to seduce people into unhealthy behavior, now get away with voluntary agreements? And where is the general ban on child marketing for unhealthy products? I held another motion because the Secretary of State asked me to wait for this agreement. Mr. Chairman. According to the Secretary of State's Prevention Agreement, at the current rate around 2040, 400,000 citizens died of the effects of smoking or second-hand smoking, 11 million of the adult Dutch people are overweight and 1.2 million people hear that they have diabetes. I can't call it an achievement that in that same time frame almost all of the...... bitterballs have not disappeared from the food canteen. Mr. Chairman. The central role of the Disk of Five in the plans of the Secretary of State is striking. Apart from the issue of climate, it must now be clear that the role of eating animal products in the development of cardiovascular diseases in 2019 must not be underestimated. Then why is it still part of the Five Disc, I ask the Secretary of State. And where are the rewards? In addition to making unhealthy behavior more expensive, there should also be rewards for healthy behavior. The increase in VAT on fruit and vegetables remains an incomprehensible decision. Does the Secretary of State want to revise it? Mr. Chairman. Leading experts in NRC yesterday called on the Chamber to tighten up the agreement to make faster health gains. I very much agree with that. Can't it all be faster and more powerful? I see I've run out of time, Mr. Chairman. I have one last sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u185	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u186	Health organisations, scientists and doctors prefer a prevention law, which enforces the objectives and agreements. Does the Secretary of State dare to take that step for a healthy society? For now and in the future, that is literally vital. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u187	Thank you, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. With this last contribution, we have come to the end of the first term of office. The Secretary of State needs a suspension of about 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u188	Before I give the floor to the Secretary of State, I would like to say that I will continue to use the number of interruptions I allowed in the first period, under one condition: the interruptions must be really short. So no lengthy introductions, just concrete questions. This is always useful in this type of debate, because if you are concrete, short and concise, you will not make it easy for the Secretary of State. I hope so. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u189	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is good that, at the beginning of the new season, after the summer holidays, we can now have a debate on the Prevention Agreement. As Mr Van der Staaij said, the wine might have to ripen for a while. This may lead to a better product, but I say that the wine was already very drinkable at the end of last year. But perhaps the product will indeed be better, now that we have all been able to let our thoughts pass. I had intended to start with a more general consideration, but given the time and length of the debate, it seems to me that I am not pleased with anyone. Moreover, I believe that all the spokesmen know very well what drives me and what moves the cabinet to shape the Prevention Agreement. It is an agreement from the coalition agreement that is being carried very widely. I also hear all the spokesmen saying that they are in agreement with the principle of a prevention agreement on the issues we are discussing here, even though there are differences of opinion on the impact we are giving. That is why we have a debate on this now, and that is good. I hope that we will eventually agree that the product that lies there can count on a very broad support. Mr. Chairman. I want to do my first-term answer in five blocks. The first block is general, because general questions have been asked by several spokesmen. Then I will go over the three themes in three blocks: firstly tobacco, secondly overweight and thirdly problematic alcohol consumption. Finally, I will end with a number of questions on other issues, such as drugs, which are not dealt with in this agreement. Before going into the questions raised in general terms by the various spokesmen, I would like to point out that there are people in the gallery who are sympathetic and sympathetic. For example, I see a lot of people from the medical world, doctors, sitting down. I would very much like to praise them from this place, if that is all right, Mr President, because they have been fully involved in the conclusion of the Prevention Agreement and have been fully involved. I am counting heavily on this profession for the implementation of the agreement and they in turn have the right to keep me sharp when giving substance to all kinds of parts of the agreement. That already leads to an interruption, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u190	Yeah, I'm surprised, too. Mrs. Ploumen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u191	It is a good thing that doctors are involved, but Parliament is not involved. We have not been able to give a direction in advance, and we can only say yes to what lies ahead, even if we are going to try to do something about it. And I mean that in all kindness. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that this should not have been repeated and that it would have been good if the Chamber had been able to develop a framework with the Secretary of State in which the measures should have been worked out? 'Cause now he's become a toy of the lobby, despite that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u192	At least I have not experienced that, but those are the words of Mrs Ploumen. I do understand the question. In my view, this is the difficult task we have of concluding different agreements. This is one of the three agreements concluded by the cabinet. Then you have the dilemma: how do we organise support and how can we achieve the best results we want to achieve? I have followed the process as we have followed, with a very broad involvement and full cooperation with society, with over 70 umbrella organisations, large civil society organisations of education, business, medical and everything in between. There was a lot of involvement. It was a very careful and lengthy process. That went with falling and getting up. There were parties who threatened to drop out in the meantime, but which we have kept with great difficulty in an extreme effort to get a broad-based agreement. That is why I say: I am truly proud that all the organisations involved from the beginning have remained in place. If Mrs Ploumen says that Parliament will only have a say on this at a late stage, I cannot deny it. Now to say that I should never do a trial like that again... I myself look back on the process with satisfaction as it has gone. I also think that Parliament is fully in charge of the steps that we are going to take from now on in legislative matters and in carrying out investigations. The fact that picket posts have been slammed, is a fact that I'm not secretive about either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u193	Good. That was your general introduction, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u194	Well, I wouldn't have prepared that kind of thing. It was actually an answer to Mrs Ploumen's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u195	Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u196	I would also like to make the fundamental point that the Chamber is put in a difficult position. Scientists who have cooperated are also put in a difficult position when asked to think about such an agreement. So I ask the Secretary of State to at least acknowledge that the scientists are actually there for the public interest that we all share, namely people's health, and that they sit at the table with parties that share not the public interest but have a self-interest. That is fundamentally complicated; let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u197	Let us be honest about that: that is also an exciting exercise, also for the scientists. They have been cognisant, very generous, and they will have had to scratch behind their ears once in a while when they were asked: will you agree to this? I'm not denying that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u198	However, I would like to say a few words about the process in response to Mrs Ploumen's question. I find it very complicated what the Secretary of State has done recently. It's been a very long negotiation. We didn't hear so much about it then. That was a very long and intensive process. Then he had it recorded in the newspaper: if I now announce measures, I will interrupt that process. Well, I understood that, but after signing, the Secretary of State didn't judge what was there, except that there was a great deal of support for it. However, he says again in the media that a pack of cigarettes of his may also cost €20. But what is the policy this Secretary of State advocates? That's what other people think? That thing we read in the paper? Is he a trial counselor or is he a ruler?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u199	I think I have put my neck on the line as a ruler by making such a statement about €20. You may think that is stupid and naive, but I have done so knowingly, because I think that the parliament, that the Netherlands has a right to know what I stand for on parts. I am not going to say that I would have done it differently on a hundred parts, but I might have wanted to make further or different choices on a number of key issues. I believe that the Netherlands is entitled to that clarity. At the same time, it has been my great ambition to set in motion on these three major themes a movement that could count on a very broad support, a broad movement in the Netherlands where health funds, education, everyone can say: we are going through this movement. I will deal with the differences by theme later, but that was very important to me. You can call that trial counseling, but of course I have also introduced my own vision. Of course I also know that it is in politics giving and taking. Compromise is embedded in our parliamentary democracy. We know that. We also know in the interaction with civil society organisations that no one will get their way completely. That's a very precarious process. I have said once again and again, I can repeat it, President-in-Office of the Council, that I am very pleased with the result that has been achieved, because I am convinced that this has led to a very important movement. I do not think Mr Renkema denies the latter either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u200	Mr. Renkema, really a brief comment on the trial. The Chamber has taken every opportunity to clarify its views, but I also believe that the Secretary of State should be given the opportunity to answer all these questions. Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u201	Yes, very briefly on this point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u202	Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u203	I understand very well that acceptance is important with so many organisations and so many points, but the Secretary of State also says that there are a few points on which he has an opinion. We don't see them in the agreement that's in place right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u204	Maybe in the answers?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u205	In my view, this is a comment which I would like to explain as a question. I have been very transparent about the simple example of €20 for a pack of cigarettes: if it were up to me, we would. But I am in a reality in which this has not proved feasible. That has not been the commitment at the theme table. It would be my bet. I do not think there is any support for it in Parliament either. Then I count my buttons and I say, "Grow up to a tenner, just like France does, I think it's a very big step."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u206	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u207	Mr. Chairman. I'm just starting with the questions I have in front of me. These were interruptions in the front. I shall begin with a question from Mrs Ouwehand in the block in general. She asks if I agree that the government should help people to protect their health. The answer is yes. That's what I'm committed to, like the other rulers at VWS, and the whole cabinet if it's okay. For example, Article 22 of the Constitution leaves nothing to be desired in this respect. Mrs Ouwehand also asked why other industries are allowed to sit at the table, but not the tobacco industry. That question has more or less been raised by other groups. I see that as a general question for the process. The answer is: in the case of smoking, the starting point is that we do not support contact with the tobacco industry under Article 5.3 of the WTO Framework Convention. I am very clear about that. Tobacco gets no foot, no toe in the door. On the other two subjects, this is substantially different. There we have no international treaty that forbids this. I can say that I want those industries, those producers at the table, to see to what extent we can think along with them and take steps in the right direction. I think that the Prevention Agreement also offers very nice examples of steps that have been offered by business and which would otherwise not have been given a place in it. I have always said, for example, in the presentation of the Sugar Tax Prevention Agreement, that perhaps we will come to the point later that it could have been prescribed by law, as happened in the United Kingdom, but we have not chosen that route in the Netherlands. The FNLI, the umbrella of food industries, has said that we want to make an offer to society, namely a 30% reduction in soft drinks through different routes. That is a very far-reaching step. You can chase it through a sugar tax, but you can also do it through an offer from the food industry. I think it is very nice that we are also pursuing this goal in the Netherlands, through this bid from industry. If we don't make it, we're going to have a fascinating conversation about whether we shouldn't introduce that sugar tax. I believe that the various spokesmen have an opinion on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u208	I will give you the floor in a moment, Mrs Sazias. First a question for the Secretary of State: This is the block general?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u209	I have the general questions in front of me. I can't answer questions either, but I have a lot of general questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u210	No, there's absolutely no way you're not answering any questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u211	I have about ten general questions, maybe 12.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u212	Then I'll go to Mrs. Sazias.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u213	Mr. Chairman. Do I hear the Secretary of State say that he has had a commitment from the industry that soft drinks will contain 30% less sugar?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u214	Yeah, it's in the Prevention Agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u215	Does the Secretary of State have any guarantees about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u216	The promise is there. In each of the agreements in the Prevention Agreement, we say that we are sticking to each other. That is also monitored by the RIVM. We keep track of the stand every year. Then we'll see where we stand. I believe that, if it appears in parts that the steps that have been promised are clearly not taken, we should have a discussion on this in Parliament. As a co-conceptor of the agreement, I will therefore have that conversation with the relevant partners.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u217	Has a timetable been agreed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u218	It was realized by 2025.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u219	That's gonna take a long time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u220	Yeah, but it's all just in the Prevention Agreement. Mrs Ouwehand also asked why the cabinet does not make a focus on health, specifically aimed at hazards for people with low SES. My answer is that precisely with the commitment in this Prevention Agreement, with the themes we have highlighted, the people with a low SES, with practical training and low income, are very much achieved. Especially in the case of smoking and overweight, the aim is to ensure that these people benefit from it, of course other people, but also people from that population, i.e. by moving more, not smoking, and less alcohol. That's how you help that category. In the national health policy note that we are now making and which is coming up at the beginning of next year, I will continue to address the issue of combating health inequalities. That too is a point which the various groups are quite right to be very concerned about. Then the issue of health differences comes back pregnant. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van Gerven asked: why do we not abolish our own risk? I can talk about this for a very long time and a very short time, but it has been discussed here so many times. It's in the coalition agreement. I could get upside down, but it's a deal, and we agree. Until 2021, we have our own risk of €385. But it remains the same: it will not increase in those years. That's an important fact. I'll add some. As far as smoking is concerned, we have agreed with the health insurance companies that there will be an offer within the health insurance scheme for attempts to quit smoking, without matching it with their own risk. It is particularly interesting for the target group of low-income people and practical training. It doesn't cost you anything if you make those attempts. That is in response to Mr Van Gerven's question. As a general question, Mrs Sazias asked what the thoughts of the Secretary of State were about the gap between ambitions in that package and the actions associated with it. That is a very logical question, because RIVM notes: you have very high ambitions and two of the three domains have a gap. That's what you showed with that state. It is right that you should draw attention to this. My answer to that is: we could have done two things. We could have agreed to say: 'Oh, we are not going to achieve our ambitions with these measures, then we are going to scale down our ambitions.' Luckily, we didn't decide to do that. We have said: we maintain our ambitions and we keep them at that high level. This means that with regard to problematic alcohol consumption and overweight, you need to look at whether you need to take extra steps. I also think that such an agreement is a dynamic whole. It's not a law of Medes and Persians until 2040. We have to keep our finger on the wrist all the time: are we doing the right thing? RIVM has not taken into account certain things in the effects, for example campaigns. They are also very difficult to weigh. The effect of this is not taken into account. You may assume from me, at least that is my intention to organise it in such a way that RIVM keeps its finger on the wrist and monitors annually how we operate with the implementation of the Prevention Agreement. If it turns out that we are really lagging behind in terms of ambition, then we will have the debate together. Mr Renkema asked: is the Secretary of State satisfied with the outcome? The answer is: yes, very satisfied and proud of the result. Here's what I'm gonna keep saying. I think we are going to see each other in a few years' time: a lot of prevention has been done, but with the Prevention Agreement, with such broad support on important issues, there has really been a change in the Netherlands and a movement has really started. Mr Renkema also asked: why does the cabinet not take measures that are necessary? The package is not sufficient. In fact, for the answer to that question, I would like to refer to the answer I just gave to Mrs Sazias. Mr. Renkema also asked: does the agreement have support among medical experts? There are a few witnesses in the gallery, but the answer to that question is yes. The medical experts are fully involved in the establishment. For example, ggz addiction care is a partner in this agreement. For example, they indicate ambitions to become smoke-free. We have made agreements with hospitals and UMCs about smoking policy and about healthy food. Family doctors are involved in the tobacco table. That is such a crazy term in this context: the tobacco theme table, so to speak. Obstetricians and business doctors are also involved. So from all sides, the medical sector is involved. So the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u221	"The answer is yes," says the Secretary of State, but then I wonder why a number of lung doctors say: it should have been much stricter, both when it comes to excise duty and the ambition for 2040 or 2030. There is mutual broad consultation, but still a number of people say that this is not going in the right direction. Can the Secretary of State explain to me why that is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u222	Doctors have a certain commitment to the Prevention Agreement, but so do all the others of the 70 parties. Each of these 70 parties will probably be able to indicate what it is and is not satisfied with, including the doctors. They can say that they would have liked to go a step further or less far on parts, just like the other parties who have concluded this agreement with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u223	Finally, on this point, what does the Secretary of State think of the position of the pulmonary doctors, who say that it should have been stricter? They want less tobacco sales and much stricter measures when it comes to children. How does the Secretary of State feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u224	I take that very seriously, of course. I'm sure I'll keep talking to them, too. The fact is that the RIVM of the ambition we have formulated, a smoke-free generation 2040 and of the adults who are smoking now, up to 5% still smoking now say: with the measures you have agreed here as a package, you are going to get very close to that ambition. Then we can discuss with each other over the years whether we should strengthen that ambition. Someone asked, I thought, Mr Renkema himself, why, as in Finland, the year 2030 was not chosen as an ambition. Yes, an interesting question. We didn't. It's 2040. But it's not ready yet. We can have that conversation again in a few years. The fact is that, with the objectives we have agreed and formulated in the area of smoking, we seem to be achieving the ambitions or at least getting very close to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u225	Just in a general sense about that RIVM report. It must have been a disappointment to the Secretary of State that after he had submitted it to the RIVM, he actually got back with critical comments by returning post. RIVM says that adults may have the ambition to smoke, but not pregnant women and young people. The overweight ambition is not feasible, nor is it feasible in the area of problematic alcohol consumption. For us, this means that we can actually request a debate on the non-achievement of that ambition. That's a little cynical, isn't it? How does the Secretary of State look at that himself?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u226	In this respect, too, I do not turn my heart into a murder pit. Of course I was rather disappointed with that score, but we could react in two directions. That's what I just said. We could have said: you know what, we could lower our ambitions, or we could have taken a few steps with measures. To do the latter now, there is no basis for that, so I am anxiously waiting for the debate that Mrs Ploumen is now announcing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u227	The Secretary of State says there's no support, but with all due respect, I haven't been asked. The people in the country haven't been asked. There have been 72 interest groups with all legitimate goals on the table, so there is no support under 72. But members of the 72 say: "Oh, I would have liked to go further, but there was industry at the table and so I couldn't." So I simply dispute the legitimacy of that support. That is why I would like to say to the Secretary of State: let's look at the RIVM report; let's also consult others and let's make sure that we achieve those goals with more stringent measures! I really believe that there is broad support for this in the country.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u228	I don't want to do that exercise, otherwise we're gonna mess up a lot, when we just got a really good result. That's what I keep saying. This is the beginning of a movement and you can keep me sharp that we are growing towards those goals. The fact that we may not be able to get them in all respects, as the RIVM can't prove, could turn out to be a matter of a few years later. But again, that's what we're talking about. I am very pleased with the result as it is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u229	At this point, too. I was just getting started on that. The Secretary of State has said some good things about smoking, about alcohol. He really broke through some taboos. But the whole idea of concluding an agreement with parties who have an interest in it: companies are not good or bad, by definition they are amoral. They do not bear the public interest of good health in their DNA. You can't blame them for that; their goal is to make money. But then you're gonna put them at the table with people who do stand for that public interest. That is fundamentally problematic. If the Secretary of State is addressed here to that problem, he says: now it turns out that we are not going to achieve those goals. No, you're not gonna make it with that construction. Then we could have adjusted our ambitions downwards. I find that really annoying, because the Secretary of State could also have confronted the Chamber, of: "This is what we now know about science. If we take that and that measure, we'll get close; just say so." You could have done that, and that would have been the elegant route.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u230	I have the feeling that we continue to share the same arguments all the time and I think it is a very far-reaching statement to say that companies are, by definition, amoral. Of course, there are all kinds of companies that are trying to be socially responsible. They also make a good contribution to health in the Netherlands. So to put them all on the same footing, I find very generalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u231	It's neutral, isn't it? It's amoral. I quote Mr Robert Reich, former Minister under Clinton, who has said nice things about this. The point is that it is a fundamentally distorted structure of interests if you choose the principle of agreement. I challenge the Secretary of State to simply inform the Chamber about the facts. We know what the scientists have advised us, what will and will not work. Give the Chamber a chance to make its own judgement. Because Mrs Ploumen is right: if RIVM is already analysing that we are not going to achieve the goals, isn't that crazy? If we already know that we will have to adjust later, let us have that discussion now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u232	I honestly do not know what else to add in addition to what I have said three times about this. I stand by the view that the involvement of industry in these theme tables has also added value to problematic alcohol consumption and overweight. I can give you examples of this, and I can send you lists, but I would like to give you one very clear example, which I do not hear you reflect on: it is a very nice offer that the food industry says: we guarantee that we put 30% less sugars in the soft drinks. For some, that is apparently news, but it is in the Prevention Agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u233	I do want to reflect on that: I think that is rather naive. I think the Secretary of State would have received the same offer as he had said: there will be a sugar tax in 2020, unless you have demonstrated before that time that 30% less sugar will be added to those soft drinks. You could have. Want to bet one of these FNLI will still take action? It's really not like talking to the industry is the only way to get some loose. I think it should be the other way around. It's naive because we've tried this before. This is not the first time the government has tried to tackle the obesity epidemic, so I really object to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u234	I will come back to the overweight theme table later on to the involvement of the business community in this bid. Perhaps it is a surprising insight, but the food industry is already moving towards 25% reduction. So I find it too easy to wave it all away and say that they are not going to live up to it. Mr Renkema has asked whether I agree that the youth doctors can play a major role in the Prevention Agreement. Yeah, they can do that. This is also enshrined in the Public Health Act. With this, youth doctors, like many other professionals in healthcare, have a major role to play in achieving ambitions. I have already answered the question about industry five times, I think. Mr Van Gerven has asked me to check laws on their impact on socio-economic health differences. Let me put it this way: laws are already being tested on a lot of things. I would like to take a careful look at this and prevent us from stacking too many aspects of scrutiny. I agree wholeheartedly with Mr Van Gerven that health differences need constant attention. I would like to return to the national health policy note I have just announced on the question of how we are shaping this and how we want to put it into legislation. It's coming in early next year. Mrs. Diertens has asked... that question is in the folder general, but comes to overweight. I have one more question in general, the bouncer, a question from Mr Mulder: have you not lost track of this agreement? When I look to the left, I do far too little. If I look to the right, I'm out of control. Maybe that's the ultimate proof that we've found a good balance. Perhaps that is the best answer to this question, apart from the fact that we are talking about fighting 35,000 preventable deaths, 35,000 people dying as a result of lifestyle diseases in a super prosperous country like the Netherlands. Now you can say it's all your own choices, but I don't belong to that school. In addition, 9 billion is linked to healthcare expenditure. The PVV will still have other ideas to spend, due to the prevention of misery in people. Mr President, this is the block in general. I think this is a good time to switch to tobacco.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u235	You thought so, but Mr Van Gerven would like to ask another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u236	Yes, Mr. Chairman. It is an intermezzo on its way to tobacco. In the first term of the Chamber, I attacked the VVD in its lobby for the tobacco industry and the sale of tobacco, because it wanted a certain extension. I would like to know the opinion of the Secretary of State on the implementation of the FCTC Treaty in relation to what Parliament is allowed to do now or not. I understand that the government or the Secretary of State has not had any contact with the small tobacco business nor has he done business with the tobacco industry under the FOCT Treaty. Does this not apply to Parliament?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u237	As far as I am concerned, it is undisputed that the directors, cabinet members, do not have any contact with the tobacco industry, and I would also like to honour that as a good tradition. The question of whether MEPs should then have contact with the tobacco industry is primarily a question that Parliament should ask itself. My predecessor, Secretary of State Van Rijn, stated explicitly in 2015 that it was perfectly clear to him that Article 5.3 of the agreement states that the government should not be in touch and that what parliamentarians do is their own responsibility. That is how he explained, completed, and I would like to join him wholeheartedly. So I am not going to make a moral assessment of the behaviour of parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u238	No. It is not right that the cabinet should give an opinion on what parliamentarians should or should not do. That is our responsibility and not that of the government.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u239	Mr President, I am opposed to that. Really, I'll explain. I am not tormenting Parliament's responsibility, but this is about the interpretation of the FCTC Treaty. My position is that this is not only mine, but also that of TobaccoNo and the Youth Smoke Prevention Foundation that, under the FCTC Treaty, the legislative and executive powers, both the parliament and the government, should not be understood by tobacco sellers and the tobacco industry when it comes to implementing laws and the like. My question is, what is the legal basis for this? Then, of course, it is the Court's own responsibility to deal with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u240	Parliament is about itself. That's what I'm talking about. It is not that the Minister says that Parliament may or may not have contact. That's what we're gonna do. If that's what we think, that's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u241	No, Mr. Chairman. My question is how to describe this FOCT treaty and what the Secretary of State thinks about it. It's a weird thing, isn't it? The government says that it does not talk to the small tobacco shopkeepers and that it does not talk to the tobacco industry because it is simply not on the agenda under the FCTC Treaty. I would say that if that is the case for the cabinet, that should also apply to the parliament. Because the parliament is, of course, executive power and also legislative power, and also controls the cabinet. So I think that's true for both sections.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u242	Mr. Chairman. I can be very brief about this. That FCTC Convention is interpreted differently in this section by different countries. The Netherlands has a strict interpretation which I wholeheartedly endorse when it comes to cabinet involvement. I repeat what I said: my predecessor, Mr Van Rijn, said that how Parliament handles this is a Parliament's responsibility. Period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u243	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u244	Mr. Chairman. I'm going to answer the questions about smoking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u245	Yes, Mr. Veldman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u246	Mr President, perhaps I could make a point of order. Mr Van Gerven is once again making the point that we, as a parliament, should not talk to shopkeepers who sell tobacco products, for example. I have just stated in my first term that I find that rather objectionable, because I believe that the oath or promise we have made to the Constitution will be taken. The point of order is that I actually have a question for you. You do not have to answer it now, but you do at a later date so that we as a Chamber know what is going on. I want us to be clear about how Article 5.3 relates to our oath and commitment to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u247	Fine. I think I've given an answer to that before.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u248	I think you've done that before...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u249	Yeah, that's right, but I'll do it again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u250	... but not explicitly to the Constitution. You have said whether the operation applies to us, but not explicitly to the Constitution. I am very attached to that, because I too am often accused of breaking the rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u251	Yeah, okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u252	I do not want to break the rules and I want to keep the promise to the Constitution that I made here in this house.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u253	Okay, I think that's a good idea. The same goes for your question, Mr Van Gerven, that this point is simply taken away and that the Bureau once again discusses this and that we also discuss it as a Chamber. In fact, I find it very strange that the Minister should give an opinion on whether or not we should have contacts as parliamentarians. We control the government, not the other way around.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u254	Mr President, I would like to add one more point. Because at that time the Bureau or the House of Representatives responded to the question of a parliamentarians' visit to a tobacco manufacturer. Now it was about visiting a small tobacco salesman. There are also lawyers who have an opinion on this. I would also like that to be included in the assessment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u255	Good. I suggest you proceed, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u256	Yes. Tobacco, chairman. First, I would like to address a few questions from Mr Veldman, who had the first floor and who dealt with some of the substance of the Smoking Prevention Agreement. First of all, I'm gonna go to the restraining order. I informed the Chamber in the summer that the ban on display would be postponed by one year for the supermarkets in view of the entry into force of the regulation. That is what Mr Veldman gets from the idea: will we not move everything a little further, within the framework of good governance? There's been a lot of exchanges on that. I would like to make a general comment. 75 children start smoking a day. Those same kids, the young generation, we don't want to expose to the sight of smoke products. The sooner, the better. Otherwise we will indeed not meet our goals in 2040; the RIVM has set the bar there. Tobacco products are shown in many places. Tobacco sales are a means of advertising the outlets. In particular, we want to protect children from the temptation that this may create. That is why we have proposed a ban on display with this agreement. For sellers who only focus on adults and only sell tobacco, lottery tickets or newspapers, there is an exception, as for the very small existing family shops. With the ban on display, entrepreneurs are still allowed to sell tobacco. The picture is sometimes sketched that they can't do anything anymore, but entrepreneurs can still sell tobacco. All they have to do is shield them. They can also decide how to remove tobacco from sight, as long as they do it. There are also supermarket chains that have already done it, as you probably know. The costs they incur therefore depend on the way in which they shape that. It can range from a curtain to making a cabinet with doors. I postponed the deadline for the introduction of supermarkets by six months. I have heard no objection to that from the Chamber. As I indicated, this delay has to do with good governance. For the other points of sale, I still consider the deadline of 1 January 2021 proposed by the Cabinet to be appropriate. In my view, this has also been mentioned very seriously in the debate on the interruption. This has been running since 2017. There was no settlement at the time, but the Prevention Agreement of November 2018 simply states how we want it. It really can't come as a surprise out of the sky. So I want to maintain the 2021 deadline for the other stores.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u257	I see you want the floor, Mr. Veldman. I will give you the floor in a moment, but I propose that the Secretary of State conclude the part of the debate on tobacco first. Then you will have the opportunity to ask questions about it. Otherwise there will be an interruption after every sentence, and that is not so convenient.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u258	Mr Veldman also made a suggestion about plain packaging, the neutralisation of cigar packaging. Why does cigar packaging have to meet the same requirements as cigarette packaging? This also applies: if we want to bring that smoke-free generation closer, we must be consistent across the board. Neutral packaging aims to prevent tobacco products from being attractive to young people and to a number of vulnerable groups. With this we protect them from the temptation to smoke and exposure to second-hand smoke. On the contrary, we deliberately do not distinguish between different smoking products; cigars are also harmful. With the introduction of neutral cigar packaging, I want to prevent young cigarette smokers from switching to cigars. As soon as exceptions are made for cigars, industry can also make them attractive to young people. That may sound like a fairy tale, but think about gin. A number of years ago, it was completely inconceivable that young people would venture to gin, but that is now a very trendy drink among young people. And we are certainly not the only country. Australia, New Zealand and Ireland also use neutral cigar packaging. So I would also like to say on that part: please, let us stick to the Prevention Agreement. Mr Veldman also asked questions about the e-cigarette. There are new insights. He rightly recalled that the last research in the Netherlands of the RIVM of 2014 dates back. Should you not even include new insights and what position do other products have in the context of harm reduction? Could they still play a role in that or not? I think that Mr Veldman's question in that context is reasonable. I think we need new insights five years after that. I would like to say to him that I would like to instruct him to carry out new research into the harmful effects of e-cigarettes. This does not, of course, mean that the parts of the Prevention Agreement that see e-cigarette measures are thus removed. They're just gonna keep going. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Dik-Faber said: despite all the measures and legislation, young people under 18 who are addicted to smoke can easily get cigarettes. Isn't it time to bet harder? Yes, we always find that compliance is inadequate. We can see that it seems to be limited to a smaller group that is getting there more and more easily through certain channels. Therefore, the enforcement of NVWA has been increasingly risk-oriented, risk-driven. As a result of disappointing figures this year, I have decided to do a further study earlier. That's what I'm telling you. As soon as that new compliance investigation has been carried out, I will, of course, send it to the Chamber as soon as possible. I would like to add one more thing: the worst enforcement, compliance, takes place at the cigarette vending machines. That's just a non-category leak. The comforting thought is that we no longer have them in the Netherlands from 2022. They're being phased out completely, so we don't have those wretched machines anymore. This closes a very large gap in compliance. Mr Renkema asked why excise duty is being phased in? We have had a lot of discussions about this in the run-up to it, including with the partners of the smoking tables. The first step to be taken and included in the Tax Plan is €1 in 2020. Then there were voices in the sense of: should you not look at its effects, especially internationally; what does that mean for the relationship with other countries? That intermediate step has been agreed with each other. In this way, that has been given a place in the Prevention Agreement. As far as I'm concerned, I'm not gonna leave any doubt about that. The aim is really to raise it to €10. This should not be surprising in the light of my comments on €20. I had put another important question aside from Mr Van Gerven, who also asked others, namely about the tobacco addiction fund financed by the tobacco industry. What do you think of that? It seems like a very logical choice. It was also discussed on the tobacco theme table. That's what people are for. Others are really against that. That's a good reason, I think. All in all, this has led us to conclude that there is insufficient support for this and that we do not do so. Such a fund is a kind of legitimacy of the tobacco industry, a kind of new indulgence trade in the sense of: if you invest in such a fund, then you do a very good deed with it and it is a very good move towards society. That actually legitimizes an industry that only causes damage. This would show a kind of social commitment that is not really from the heart. This has led, in the preparation, to the fact that this proposal did not reach a majority on that theme table. So there will be no fund to legitimise the tobacco industry and to say: look what good deeds we are doing. Because we all know they don't. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Sazias has added a question to that. Speaking of that fund, she asked about clinical treatments. I would like to have an investigation, in which case addiction care can be used via that route. I have just indicated that health insurance includes that everyone can make free stops without compromising their own risk. I would like to have this specific question investigated, so I will come back to that. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Kuik asked whether the fight against smoking in cars is part of the national campaign. It seems to me to be a very good suggestion to make. We haven't finished that campaign yet, but we're definitely taking this idea with us. If we refrain from doing so for any reason, we will communicate with the Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Kuik also asked if I would like to make a zero assessment of the number of sales points and to inform the Chamber regularly. We will look at how the number of outlets develops in the overall monitoring. So the answer to that is yes. I'm getting a supplement now, because I've probably said some really crazy things. As far as the ban on display is concerned, I think I have come to the conclusion, I say to Mr Veldman, that we are following the line that is now in the agreement. Summer 2020 for supermarkets, 2021 for others. I will communicate that decision immediately as soon as it is struck, because I think Mr Veldman has a point that the industry has a right to be absolutely clear that it is actually regulated. When the Chamber has finished this debate, we are right to take action. The decision will then be published immediately so that entrepreneurs can prepare themselves. Mr. Chairman. In addition to monitoring the number of outlets, several spokesmen have asked whether you should not go to a licensing system. Among others, Mr Renkema, Mrs Ploumen and Mr Van Gerven asked. The answer: the Prevention Agreement agreed that we would reduce the number of points of sale. As far as I am concerned, this is about the number of sales outlets where children can get into contact with tobacco products. In order to do this as well as possible, research is being carried out into different ways of reducing the number of outlets. In the research I'm doing on how to reduce the number of outlets, I'll take the question as to whether a licensing system can contribute to this. You might achieve the same thing with a specific ban at certain points of sale. That's another approach route for the same purpose. It says here "before the end of the cabinet period," but I would like to do my utmost to inform the Chamber in the middle of next year about the number of outlets and possibilities to reduce them to the left or right. The Prevention Agreement says 'before the end of the cabinet period', but I would like to try to bring that forward as far as possible, so that we can discuss it during this cabinet period as well. Mr Van der Staaij asked whether research could not be carried out this year on the steps that could be taken to reduce the number of points of sale. He wants that to go faster. I just thought I'd bring this up. So not "at the end of the cabinet period," but as soon as possible. Mr van der Staaij also asked why tobacco duty is not being increased further. I think I have just answered that question in response to questions by Mr Van Gerven or Mr Renkema. Mr Mulder asked whether or not there has been an evaluation of the effectiveness of tobacco measures. In general, several measures have been evaluated, but not all. I'm just being very honest about that. What we have done is that we have looked at the most effective measures taken internationally. That is a very clear list, starting with an increase in prices. We are doing this through a substantial increase in excise duty. I would also mention limiting the visibility and attractiveness of tobacco products, i.e. plain packaging, smoking bans, product regulation and intensive multi-annual campaigns. Those are proven effective interventions. They are all more or less in the agreement we have concluded. We did not have any need to make a pass on these parts at any point. So also at the point of plain packaging we have said that we need to step up our efforts. Mr. Chairman. Mr Mulder asked about compliance with the smoking ban in the shishalounges and whether I know what lives there. I went along with the NVWA I thought at the beginning of this year that was going to maintain. We only went to shishalounges, behind each other. There was some pretty strict action there. I believe that, in all cases, there has been a reduction in the consumption of tobacco in addition to herbal products outside the smoking area. I hope that will reassure Mr Mulder. He's asking me if I know what's going on and if they're gonna keep it. I know what's alive, and I know there's a lot going on. We could talk about it again sometime. Perhaps Mr Mulder is referring to that or we should not act any harder. Now there is a maximum fine of €4,500. Also in the case of repeated infringements, this remains €4,500. We could still have the conversation if we shouldn't let go of a harsher sanctioning on notorious offenders of the smoking ban. I'll inform the Chamber about the results. Mr. Chairman. I think I come to the last question on smoking. Mrs Diertens has asked: will the Secretary of State and his colleague in Finance see if the price of a tenner can already be put into the Tax Plan? That's a noble ambition. I'd like to do it right away. In the Tax Plan presented by the Secretary of State for Finance to the Chamber this autumn, we increase the price by a euro. In the agreement, the step has been agreed that we will then evaluate. We would run for the music if we already agreed that we would go to a tenner anyway. That can be done in explanatory texts in the Tax Plan, but it would be a bit of a strange figure to include it as a measure while the evaluation has been agreed. Those were the answers in the smoke box, Mr. Chairman. Shall I proceed immediately with the overweight block?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u259	Mr Veldman, you are right and you are right. Preferably as concrete as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u260	I have two questions. The Secretary of State also refers, like a number of speakers from the Chamber, to the internet consultation of 2017. He claims that entrepreneurs could have known what was coming. Does the Secretary of State agree with me that in the regulation he submitted to the Chamber there is a year shorter time because the internet consultation started from 2022, while he is now proposing 2021 to the Chamber as part of the Prevention Agreement, and that therefore the certainty that entrepreneurs had in 2017 is not so sure? That doesn't match good governance, does it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u261	At least I didn't want to say, and I don't think I said that, that certainty was there in 2017. Several spokesmen have said that I repeat that there was a ban in the air, that there was a ban. It was known. In 2017, the proposal entered the internet consultation. In it was the year 2022 for the entrepreneurs, other than supermarkets. After the consultation, also because it gave us rejections, we brought this forward for the other shops for a year. That was at the time of concluding the Prevention Agreement. That was the end of 2018. That's over two years before this is turned into action. If it had been up to me, that rule would have been adopted at the beginning of this year, but we agreed to wait for this debate first. We have that debate now. I have just indicated that we can take that measure right after this debate. The entrepreneurs involved will then have a little more than a year and a half to prepare themselves for this. We know about supermarkets, which do not even have a duty, that they have already done so. We know from other entrepreneurs that they have already realized it, but they still have to implement it when the rule is there. I do not think that we are surprising the entrepreneurs concerned, nor are we asking them over.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u262	So you can see that a rule is only a rule when the rule is a rule, because this slide with years does not help entrepreneurs. But that aside. My second question is this. The Secretary of State says he doesn't want to make exceptions around cigars. I want to ask him if he knows the beautiful company De Elephant in Kampen, a craft cigar manufacturer. They make cigars in an old-fashioned way and, of course, they just have a stock, like any company that needs to have. The Secretary of State probably knows that cigars are best kept in cedar boxes. Does the Secretary of State have any idea how much euros such a company has in store of cedar wood, which they can't do anything with if they also have to comply with that plain packaging?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u263	I don't know that company from work visits, because I'm pretty consistent with that. I also read the newspaper and I saw the news from De Elephant during the summer. I understand their questions and their wishes. When we talk about the design around plain packaging, I would like to see if a box sec is possible. I think it's more about what the packaging looks like next. You're gonna color it? I have a fine example with me. You can put that on a box. I think the material is secondary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u264	Let me give the Secretary of State a hand, so he scratches behind the ears again in the next steps he's going to take. Such a company simply has €100,000 worth of cedar wood. If they can't use that anymore, an icon like that from Kampen is just bankrupt. There are still 16 people working now.They have already gone back from 24 to 16 people and then there are 16 people on the street. I'll give that to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u265	Then I'm going to...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u266	I have nothing to add to what I said about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u267	Okay. Then I will go to Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u268	I had another question about the suggestion made by RIVM that, at a later stage, but as far as I am concerned, within this cabinet period, we should come up with an endgame strategy for how to work even more towards a smoke-free generation with subsequent measures. My question is whether the Secretary of State is prepared to take up that suggestion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u269	I heard Mr Van der Staaij correctly. He says that this is still to be done in this cabinet period. Indeed, he will not ask me if I want to do so in the next cabinet period, because that is very forward-looking. I find that exciting, because this cabinet period lasts for a little over two years or one and a half years, who knows? I do not know how I can actually imagine setting up a final spurt at that time, in addition to what we have agreed. I have also always said that RIVM says: with the measures on tobacco, you are getting very close to the targets. That's what everyone here is cheering up, I think. What a final spurt has to add to that... Of course, I want to debate this at any time with the Chamber, but to come up with proposals on top of what we have already agreed in the Prevention Agreement, after a year, I find it very quick.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u270	I understand. I have also taken note of what the Secretary of State said, namely that there is now no support for additional measures. That's not what I'm advocating. But if you have in mind what is still needed in such an endgame for additional measures, more in the analytical sphere, this can also help in decision-making in later periods.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u271	If I understand Mr Van der Staaij correctly, he is referring to what is still needed for additional measures in the late 1920s, not from the last century, but from this century. Let me put it this way: in my opinion, it is a real exercise to look at it and study variants that can be put on top if necessary, without us deciding in this cabinet period what we are going to put on top of it in 2028 and what in 2032. I want to seriously see if that's a real exercise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u272	The Secretary of State answers my question about packaging and the evaluation with the general answer that several studies have been carried out. But I specifically asked about the effectiveness of the packaging requirements, for the following reason. It is not only on page 13 of the coalition agreement that 'the measures we take in the field of prevention must be proven to be effective', but also in a previous debate here, or at least in response to this, it has been specifically asked: are you going to examine the packaging requirements that were changed before you come up with new requirements? Then it was said very loudly by this government: yes, we are going to do that. So I'm asking if that's what happened and apparently it didn't happen. In the context of the reliable government and certainly also of a reliable State Secretary, I do not think that this is entirely correct.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u273	For me, this is what prevails in the coalition agreement: effective measures, proven effective measures, must be taken. I've just listed that. That's where this plain packaging belongs. We are, of course, yet another country that is going to do this. Many countries have already preceded us. So you can also say, why didn't you do that three years earlier? We've waited a long time. And I have been honest: I said that we have not evaluated all the elements. Yeah, it can't be any clearer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u274	Well, it could be clearer. Because once again, it's just been promised. Then the only thing you're honest with is that you just don't keep your promise, that you're lying. You'll be honest in that, but it's not right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u275	No, what I am saying is that with this package we have taken the step agreed in the government agreement, namely to take proven effective measures in the context of prevention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u276	Then I will go to Mr Van Gerven. Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u277	That is all true, but we asked about the packaging of cigarettes. New demands are now being made and the last time it was promised that the effectiveness would first be evaluated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u278	Yes. Well, I...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u279	You didn't. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u280	Yeah, yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u281	So you lied about that after all?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u282	Well, Mr. Mulder...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u283	What's wrong with the word "lie"?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u284	We're just getting started and I've heard the word "lie" three or four times today. If there is 'lies', then of course that is also a matter of trust and so on. So it is a heavy characterization; let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u285	Well, it's also fierce when you rely on a government's promises and if they're not kept. If you think "lie" is a wrong word, I'm gonna say "joke." If everyone is very satisfied with that, then this Secretary of State is joking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u286	Yeah, it's horrible. I have said once again that we have made the choice on the basis of the coalition agreement. I fully support that. The fact that we have not done what we have promised, namely an evaluation, does not deserve the beauty prize, but I think that in the fight against smoking and in the pursuit of a smoke-free generation, we are going to implement a whole package of measures that are proven to be effective. This is a very nice one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u287	I'm going to see Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u288	Well, I may ask a second question, Mr. Chairman, with your permission.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u289	Well, I think... Let's see. Yeah, that's fine. It's being tracked.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u290	Thank you. We will also start again this year. As the Secretary of State just pointed out, there has been talk of the smoke-free generation all the time. This Secretary of State wants to be very consistent and does not want to distinguish between products. That, too, may be a bit of chunky, because the e-cigarette, with which you do not use tobacco but a herbal mixture, is forbidden, but the bong, in which you put that same mixture, is not prohibited. What do you mean you don't make a difference between products?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u291	The answer to this is that the e-cigarette, whether it is with or without nicotine and whether it is vapour or smoking, is a product offered in the range of smoking. What we do not want in our search for a smoke-free generation is that these products are seen as complementary to each other or as substitution. We don't want that. The shishalounge, the bong and the herbal products there are really of a different category. You're also going into a shishalounge to smoke that product. The e-cigarette is a product you use everywhere. I would also like to add something to that. We have always looked at support for proposals. We have had discussions with all those organisations that sat at the table on the issue of smoking: what measures are we taking? There the e-cigarette has been pointed out at the top as one thing we do not want. The shishalounge and the herbal products have not been a theme at all. It would be crazy if I were to say that the table that discusses this issue with all these civil society organisations does not mention it, but we are going to do so in the fight towards a smoke-free generation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u292	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u293	It's getting weirder. The fact that nothing is called at a table is not an argument to make a distinction, is it? All studies indicate that these water pipes are even more harmful, at least a lot more harmful than an e-cigarette. And an e-cigarette is less harmful than an ordinary cigarette. So if you say you're consistent, it's really weird to make this difference. You can be very tough about your fight against tobacco, but at least this part of it isn't right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u294	Mr Mulder has made it exactly right. It's my fight against tobacco.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u295	Yeah, and there's one exception...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u296	No, Mr. Mulder. No, no, no.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u297	In conclusion, Mr President. There's one exception...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u298	There's no lockdown. I'm going to see Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u299	If I start a café with just an e-cigarette, that's okay...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u300	I'm going to see Mr Van Gerven. Mr Van Gerven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u301	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u302	I wanted to come back to the e-cigarette, the Trojan horse in the fight against tobacco consumption and abuse. Is it true that nicotine is as addictive as heroin and cocaine? Is it true that if you look at the harmful effects of the e-cigarette, research shows that there are 29% more strokes and 25% more heart attacks when using the e-cigarette?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u303	Mr Van Gerven is a doctor; I think he knows better than I do. You ask me if nicotine is more addictive than heroin, or just as addictive. I might have to have that ready, but I don't know if that's exactly on the same scale. If you want to know the answer to that, and you do not know it yourself, I would like to give it in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u304	Well, I'll help the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u305	See, you knew yourself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u306	Yes, of course, but I thought the Secretary of State knows that too, because it is well implemented.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u307	You're gonna check me out at this late hour.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u308	No, it's not about the hearing. It's about proving that the e-cigarette is a very addictive product when it contains nicotine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u309	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u310	Now the Secretary of State has said he wants that e-cigarette examined. Does he want to investigate the effect if we take the nicotine out completely and ban it? And, in relation to that, does he want to do so for ordinary tobacco consumption? Does he also want to see what happens when you reduce nicotine or take it all out? What effect does that have?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u311	That's two questions. I have just promised in the direction of Mr Veldman that I would look at the e-cigarette and the latest insights into it. Mr Van Gerven is now adding ordinary cigarettes, which need to be examined with a lower nicotine content. Let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u312	Well, I'll cut it. I want that for the e-cigarette. In addition, you say: we ban e-cigarettes with nicotine, because nicotine is just addictive...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u313	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u314	... and of course it's an opsuit. There's a chance you're gonna use regular cigarettes after that. Because if you're addicted to nicotine, that step is just smaller. That's one question. Then the second one. While you're investigating, I'm also thinking about the shuffle cigarette and all that kind of stuff. Can you then examine the consequences of lowering nicotine levels in ordinary cigarettes or eliminating them altogether? I think that you could achieve a great deal in the context of public health.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u315	I have just promised Mr Veldman that I want to investigate the e-cigarette and the latest insights surrounding the e-cigarette. Of course, I would like to include this aspect: what about the e-cigarette without nicotine? A study of the cigarette without nicotine is getting exciting, because that suggests that we could go to a cigarette that is acceptable. I just want to get rid of the whole damn thing. And a smaller load of nicotine in a cigarette............................................................................................................. So I wouldn't feel like starting a study like this with the aim of helping people out of harm reduction or smoking. I just don't want any more cigarettes. If we are going to suggest to the Netherlands that we are going to investigate cigarettes without nicotine, then I do not feel that much. By the way, next to nicotine, there are plenty of poisons in cigarettes that we wouldn't want to sniff.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u316	It's the nicotine that matters to me. I don't think the Secretary of State's remark that you're going to smoke more if you lower the nicotine level in a cigarette is correct. There is a clear relationship: the more nicotine and the faster it goes to the brain, the greater the addictive effect. So dosing is important. I know that the Secretary of State also wants to go to zero: zero is enough when it comes to tobacco consumption. So again my question: does he still want to look again, and then perhaps come back to it later, if it is not a passable path to investigate seriously?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u317	In the first term, my reaction to this is really negative, because it gives rise to the suggestion that we can go to a type of cigarette that is acceptable. Nor do we want people to be attracted to nicotine-free cigarettes, which Mr Van Gerven says: you have my blessing, they are good cigarettes, and they can increase the step towards nicotine-containing cigarettes. So I don't think we should want this whole culture. This research therefore has no added value. It may be that we talk past each other and then I'd like to come back to that in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u318	Okay, good. Then I'll go to Mrs. Sazias.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u319	I actually want to get on with this for a while, because I wanted to talk about that e-cigarette, too. I am glad that you have promised to have it examined, but we already know that it is clear that they are less harmful than ordinary cigarettes, if only because there is no carbon monoxide and there is no incineration. But I know that a lot of people who are addicted to cigarettes use them as an intermediate step to get rid of them. So in your investigation, I would like to have examined the relationship with ordinary cigarettes. If this makes it easier for people to stop, then I do not think you should step over it altogether.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u320	That thought is also being expressed in the United Kingdom, for example, but I do not share that view. In practice, it turns out that a lot of people do not use the e-cigarette instead of the cigarette, but are going to use it together. It could go the other way. When we promote the e-cigarette as a healthier medicine, I sometimes say: you die a little less, but you die of it, young people can use it as a stepping stone. You'll have another chance they'll end up at the cigarette. I believe that we in the Netherlands should take a different line and say: we simply do not want the e-cigarette. Of course, I'd like to do that research. Maybe it leads to very new and surprising insights. I will share with you the investigation and our explanation of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u321	I think there is a difference between giving and promoting good information. I would never promote it, and neither should the Secretary of State, but I think it could be a tool on the way to stopping.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u322	I am not going to dispute that either, and we will give you good information, for example via the RIVM website or by stopping attempts as a doctor in his wisdom or insanity says that the e-cigarette is also a step in the right direction. I don't know; I didn't study for that. I am not saying that it is in every way a wrong way to get rid of smoking. It's possible they're good moves. If you're asking me to give you good information about it, I can say we're definitely gonna do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u323	Then Mrs. Diertens. Or did you have another question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u324	Yeah, I had one more question. I am very pleased that you are also going to investigate the clinical reduction of smoking. Do you have a time limit for me on which I can expect anything?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u325	Would it be okay if I returned to that in the second term? I'm gonna have to probe that for a second.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u326	As far as the tax is concerned, I understand that it is a timetable and part of the monitor, so I am happy to accept your proposal that it should be included as a text. Can you tell me whether it was possible in that consultation with your colleagues?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u327	That's fine. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u328	Thank you for the commitment to monitor sales points. I have a very specific question. The agreement states that by 2020, petting farms should be smoke-free. Underneath it says that in 2025, five years later, the playgrounds should be smoke-free. Now I always thought a playground was a petting zoo without animals. Did I misunderstand that? Why is there a difference?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u329	Yeah?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u330	Yeah, that's crazy!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u331	How am I gonna get out of this? By the way, and that's not a distraction, but it's worth mentioning, today is the 150th... What's the name of a place where animals live?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u332	Children's farm!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u333	Exactly. It's a petting zoo. I'm getting all messed up. Today, the 150th petting zoo has become smoke-free. There are 400, so 250 to go. But that's happening very quickly now. I shall come back to your question in the second term, because I really wouldn't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u334	I hope that's not because the playgrounds had a better lobbyist than the petting farms.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u335	The Secretary of State will come back to it. I'll go to Mrs. Fat-Faber first. I see you standing, Mr. Edgar Mulder. You have one more interruption, but we still have overweight and alcohol, but okay. Mrs. Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u336	I have another question on enforcement. It is good to hear that the NVWA will also maintain real risk-driven. I think the point of compliance is simply not right. At the controls 24% were in violation. When I look at the fines we have and at the principle of three strikes out, I ask the Secretary of State if the instruments we have are enough deterrent. Compliance is so poor. I would like to ask the Secretary of State if he would look at that again. Could he possibly sleep on that one more night and then inform the Chamber about it? Is there not a need for some additional measures or perhaps higher fines?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u337	I would like to take that question with me in the next compliance study, which will follow soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u338	I was critical of the consistency of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u339	Yeah, I noticed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u340	Eventually, the Secretary of State says there is a difference. He forbids an e-cigarette because you can take it anywhere, while you have to go to a cafe for a bong. But your cabinet says in the field of cannabis that you can and that you should not smoke cannabis, but evaporate. This is in the last section on prevention and information in coffee shops. The cabinet supports the key points: smoke cannabis does not, but evaporates it. There's also a device for that, a vaporizer. Why, then, should I ask the Secretary of State very carefully through you, Mr President?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u341	Via the e-cigarette to the shishalounge to the cannabis! The answer to that question is that the advisory committee advised by the cabinet on the implementation of the closed cannabis chain has expressed concerns about smoking cannabis with tobacco. The Committee recommends that, in relation to health risks, cannabis should not be smoked with tobacco, which will also be very complicated in the future and that cannabis vapours should be changed. That's the committee's advice. The cabinet embraces the committee's opinion that cannabis should not be smoked with tobacco. You can see that in the Prevention Agreement. In addition, I would add that the cabinet has launched a study at Trimbos on the effects and health risks of the various uses of cannabis, such as fumes, smoking and food. That investigation is ongoing. So you are asking me something that is still being investigated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u342	Please continue with the following.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u343	I was done smoking, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u344	Very briefly, Mr. Renkema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u345	It's still about smoking. I have one more question about that. I've been thinking for a while about the review in 2021. There is therefore €1 in the excise duty and then an assessment is made. So what exactly is being evaluated? This is a measure which, as foreign research shows, is simply effective. When it comes to combating smoking, raising the price of a pack of cigarettes is the most effective measure. So, what are you going to evaluate?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u346	I do not know how explicit that is in the Prevention Agreement. For example, border effects are considered. What impact does this have on the operators in the border region? How many people go to Belgium, Germany or Luxembourg to buy their cigarettes? It is also about the effects on smuggling, for example. Several aspects that may be a consequence are being considered. I see Mr Renkema shaking his head, but we agreed that we are going to put that in the picture. Then, on the basis of that evaluation, we are all there to decide whether or not to proceed with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u347	I suggest you move on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u348	Mr. Chairman. Mr Veldman asked about overweight how there could be no or little attention to movement in the Prevention Agreement. I do not know how to explain this question, because the Prevention Agreement contains a separate section on moving in the overweight chapter. That's where a link is made to the Sports Agreement. On pages 43 and 44 of that agreement a number of measures are in the light of movement. I can give you the examples. A very striking example is the Youth On Healthy Weight Programme, where moving is a substantial part of it. More movement is one of the determinants for healthy weight, which is the focus of much attention, also in the context of the JOGG. We didn't want to do the Sports Agreement about this. I have a lot of contact with Minister Bruins about the lines between those two. I hope that in the near future it will prove that your fear is unfounded and that moving does indeed have a place in the Prevention Agreement and independently in the Sports Agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u349	Mr. Veldman, I want the Secretary of State to complete this overweight section and then you'll have the opportunity to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u350	Mr. Chairman. Mrs Sazias also asked whether the Secretary of State could call for extra attention to the movement of older people in his talks with municipalities. I agree with her that moving is also important for the elderly in terms of health. The Prevention Agreement establishes a link with the Sports Agreement, in which moving is of course the common thread. In contact with municipalities, VWS asks for attention for older people and moving in different ways. It's already happening. The reformers for the Sports Agreement raise this issue in their talks with municipalities. It's being actively placed on the agenda. Also in local coalitions against loneliness there are often activities aimed at moving, so I think there is really ample attention to it. Mr Veldman asked why there are no agreements with supermarkets in the context of overweight, because all you are talking about is seduction and nudging. In my opinion, there is a whole set of agreements in the Prevention Agreement that we make with supermarkets to tempt consumers to make the healthy choice; not mandatory but precisely by promoting the healthy choice, for example by pointing out Disk of Five articles. The shops can fill that out as they see fit, through offers, recipe ideas, shelf cards, etc. In addition to the Improved Product Composition Agreement on sugar reduction, salt and fat agreements have been made with supermarkets and producers. They support the development of a new product improvement system. That will come back to Mrs Dik-Faber's questions about this. In my opinion, supermarkets are very concerned that it is an important and important point to tempt consumers to make the healthy choice. Several spokesmen have rightly pointed out that they do not. Only 20% of the offers are in line with the Disk of Five. That is a clear point of improvement. Supermarkets also benchmark this in order to compare results. I hope they will continue to do so in the future, to make it a kind of healthy competition for those who promote healthy products. Mr Van Gerven has asked whether a legal ceiling on sugar, fat and salt does not cause much more damage than non-binding agreements, but he is not here. I refer to the Improved Product Composition Agreement. In it steps have been taken to move towards lower levels. I recognised in the progress report on this agreement that these steps do not touch the ambitions. Over the past year, it has become clear that these ambitions can be achieved not only by improving the product composition, but also by adapting the diet. Therefore, more food according to the Disk of Five is the first starting point in the Food Prevention Agreement. We are working on a new Agreement Improving Product Composition. That should be off the ground by 2020. I hope Mr Van Gerven will hear it. He quoted Minister Schippers. It has put product improvement on the agenda in the EU, but it has not been supported. There is no agreement on this in the EU. If you are going to lay down the reduction of salt and other things that we want to bring back in national legislation, you are going to harm Dutch companies. Companies from abroad are not bound by these rules. They can just organize their stuff here on the shelf. So that's not gonna do us any good. We continue to work in this context in the EU for a level playing field, a more level playing field. Mr. Chairman. Several spokesmen, including Mr Van Gerven, have asked whether you should not reduce the VAT increase from 6% to 9%. That has been the subject of a lot of discussion here. It's a logical thought. I must add that VAT has been increased on all foods, not only on healthy, but also on unhealthy foods. Its implementation is quite exciting. How do you want to distinguish between healthy and unhealthy? Isn't that accompanied by complicated questions about health claims? The simplest answer is that it was agreed in the coalition agreement. So I can stand on my head, but that agreement is valid until 2021. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Ouwehand asked why the food environment is not included in the Prevention Agreement. After all, scientific insights show us the added value of this. The answer is: making a healthy choice easier is precisely what we are committed to in this Prevention Agreement. As far as I'm concerned, that's what that healthy environment is all about. The agreement enhances the commitment to healthier neighbourhoods, school canteens, schools, sports canteens and hospitals, so the aim is to make the whole environment healthier. It is a profit that the advertising code for kids marketing has been tightened up, thus phasing out those licensed media characters. It was also said here: no more kids' marketing. I think the spokesmen are referring to unhealthy products. I very much agree with that, so that is what the aim is for. That is also set out in the Prevention Agreement. Maybe it's interesting to tell you that the ALDI has decided to focus kids marketing exclusively on products that come from the Five Disk. As far as I'm concerned, that's a very white raven. It deserves to be followed. I'll definitely promote it, too. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Ouwehand cites several reports on food policy. A core of it is that we need to eat more vegetable; a shift from animal to plant. An interruption debate was followed with Mrs Dik-Faber. I can endorse that line. I've never made a secret that that movement should be there if you meet the standards of the Five Disk. I would like to underline that here. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Dik-Faber also asked for the agreement on product improvement. These results are disappointing, as Mrs Dikk put it. She used to call it "mice steps." I have said that results are being achieved, but less than we would like. A follow-up to that agreement will have to be a little more ambitious, and better calculated. I think that is a good ambition and I would like to take it seriously. This must be achieved by 2020, as you can read in the Prevention Agreement. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Dik-Faber asked if the new logo matches the Disk of Five. That would be the ambition. The fact is that of all the big logos that exist now, not one literally matches the Disk of Five. We're working really hard. There's a consumer investigation going on. We are looking at which logo is best for the Dutch people. Of course, we are also investigating which one is best suited to the Disk of Five. It can also be an existing logo that we say should be perfected by putting more in the Disk of Five. The Chamber wants to be careful, but it also wants to be speedy. This autumn, we want to make a choice. If that choice is not 100% Disc of Five proof, I promise you that this will remain an ambition, but we would very much like to have a good logo that can count on broad support and that is very clear to the consumer. Mr. Chairman. Mr Renkema asked: have you considered introducing a programme for healthy meals at school? I understand that this argument does not apply to some people, but it has not been a prominent issue at the theme table. I would add that in the context of the Healthy School a lot of attention is already being paid to healthy meals. I have also seen at Healthy Schools that this is a matter of course. That doesn't mean that students are offered lunch. I can say that at the moment, in the form of a public-private partnership, Wageningen University is working to strengthen a healthy and sustainable food choice, including in the projects healthy school lunch and taste classes, with support from the Ministries of Agriculture and VWS. The research into the healthy school lunch and how it could look will run until the end of 2020. So the scientific research is going on there. If we have that investigation, the Minister of Agriculture and I will respond to it and give an explanation. Then, as far as I am concerned, it is on the agenda. I have already answered the question about VAT. Several spokesmen, including Mr Renkema and Mrs Ploumen, said: the sugar tax, what are you paying? As far as possible and insofar as there was support for it, the Prevention Agreement used proven effective interventions. The outcome of that table was: we certainly want to take those steps, but not with a sugar tax. There was no basis for that at that table, at least not enough. I said that the food industry is doing a hand-out. It does not only offer soft drinks, but also other products to take substantial steps towards a reduction in sugar, salt and fats. If you would like a more detailed overview of this, I can show you. That's the route we're on right now. After a few years, we need to know if we're gonna make it. If it turns out we don't make it, you could, as I said before, have the talk about the sugar tax. But to introduce this tax now: that is not the outcome of the negotiations under the Prevention Agreement. Mr. Chairman. It went a bit off the bat, but in response to Mrs Kuik's questions about the agreement on improved salt, sugar and fat content, I say that we want to report the progress to the Chamber. We'll monitor that. We will report to the Chamber how that develops. There is a website showing all appointments and the results of the product improvement. There is also an overview with all appointments to be found on that website. I see now that this is going to cost an interruption by Mrs Kuik.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u351	I'd like to suggest that we finish this first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u352	Perhaps I can prevent the interruption by saying that I am working on a new system for product improvement and that it includes a monitor on progress. That's just a standard part of it. Mrs Kuik further asked if there was room for information by, for example, pediatricians in the context of the Healthy School. The Healthy School works with interventions described in the database of the Healthy Life Centre. This is to prevent a proliferation of quality standards. Anyone can submit their intervention to that centre. The many interventions that exist are regulated in this way. Mrs Kuik also asked if I would like to talk to the CBL about whether the price incentive could be improved. The CBL has also expressed its ambition to seduce consumers, the grassroots and call for more Disk of Five to be consumed. The way it is to the members of the CBL. Offerings seem to be an important incentive. Relatively more offers for Disk of Five we would very much welcome. The balance is now 20-80. You asked me to enter into this discussion with the CBL. We have periodic consultations with the CBL and I would certainly like to raise that point. It is not explicitly agreed in the Prevention Agreement, but I certainly want to have that conversation. I have already answered Mrs Ploumen's question on the sugar tax. I said what I wanted to say about it. I am not going to say another word about it now. Mrs Ploumen also asked if I wanted to make healthy food cheaper to make it more attractive and accessible. With the Prevention Agreement, the focus is on more food according to the Disk of Five. This can be done in various ways, even through the Kids Marketing; Aldi is going through it. The main route we agreed on through the Prevention Agreement is through instruments other than prices. If supermarkets want that, they are free to do so, but we have not forced it and are not going to enforce it in the sense of: you may only make offers that fit in the Disk of Five. Mrs Ploumen also asked why overweight ambition is so low. I think that ambition is hugely high. Twenty-two years ago, we were on a level that we want to reach in 22 years. In my mind, 38% of the population were overweight at the time. We're at 50% now, and if we keep this up, we'll be way over 60% in 2040. We want to be on the same level as 22 years ago. In the light of the whole development of society, I think that is an enormous ambition. RIVM says for a reason: success with these measures. I think the ambition is very high. In any case, that's also the aftertaste on the table overweight. Mrs Ploumen also asked me to ban all forms of misleading advertising about food so that healthy food is more attractive and accessible. In general, I would like to say that this is the work of the Commission's Advertising Code to monitor this. I can say a lot more about it, but I would also like to talk about it with the Advertising Code Commission to remind them of: please, look after it. If we are all striving for less obesity, then we must not overlook anything too easily. Mrs Diertens asked me to make arrangements with other departments for better coordination with regard to healthy food. With the Ministry of LNV we are the most important two and I have that contact with it anyway. If there are other ministries that are relevant, of course I would like to have the conversation with them. So the answer is yes. Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen has said that you should actually ban Kids Marketing. I've already said that I'm aiming for Kids Marketing only on Five Product Disk. We have just heard the example of a supermarket chain which I am not going to name for the third time, but which has set an example. Mr. Chairman. I also touched on Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen's question about the shift from animal to plant. That is certainly our aim, because that is in accordance with Disk of Five. Mr. Chairman. I think I've dealt with the overweight questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u353	I'm really having a short round of questions, because we still have a few topics to deal with, and actually, you're almost all through your interruptions. I'll start with Mrs. Kuik. Very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u354	The Secretary of State reports a monitoring. It's about products that have been improved. I would like to know how that relates to total production, because then we can estimate what impact it has. So now let's see the whole picture and what's happening in it, and we can also estimate whether that's enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u355	I'm trying to understand what Mrs. Kuik is asking. Does it mean: for the different product groups?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u356	A number of product groups have been selected, but I actually want to see everything there is, so I can see how much impact the number of products selected has on the whole of the intake we get. Look, if that's just a very small part, we don't think that's enough. So can we get the total picture of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u357	But if I am right, the agreement also has the ambition to define very broadly where we aim to reduce these three elements. If I understand Mrs Kuik correctly, she says that you have to measure that very widely for all the products where you apply that reduction. Let me put it this way: I want to seriously consider that. I think it makes sense that if we have that ambition, we can make it clear. So I'm gonna take that seriously.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u358	I have a quick question. The Secretary of State does not want to deal with the sugar levy so much is clear to me, but he does want to look at whether the measures that have now been taken are sufficient. When's that moment? Does he want to set a date for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u359	I find that very difficult, because I run the risk of ruling over my grave, at least my political grave. I find it difficult because, for example, the dome of the food industry has indicated that they want to fix the sugar reduction to 30% by 2025. Then it's a little crazy to say by 2020: we'll see if they're on the right track and if not, we'll introduce a sugar tax in 2021. I think that's way too early. So I would like to say: do so when you are on your way to 2025, in 2022 or 2023.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u360	The new Agreement Improving Product Composition is quite complicated. Indeed, you can, so to speak, take half of the sugar out of a certain cookie, but if there is a new sweeteners income or if people start eating twice as many cookies, then you don't have a lot of health gain on balance. Actually, you should monitor that, too. I will come back to that in second place. I have spoken with the director of the CBL, in a public space, and others from this Chamber were also present. He literally said that the CBL wants to reverse it: 80% advertising for products from the Five Disc.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u361	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u362	My question is this. I was just gonna grab the phone tomorrow, call him and stick to his pronunciation. I was there. Mr. Veldman was there. Of course, he doesn't have the members on a string, but the verdict has been made, so let's work on that with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u363	I'd love to do that. I just don't know what the added value of it will be if he repeats it to me, if he has already said it to you. Would that have added value? I don't know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u364	Are you gonna call or not? That's the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u365	I'd love to do that. Then I'll also report to the Chamber what comes out of it. I told you before, I want to talk to the CBL. I don't know if that whole conversation's gonna happen tomorrow. Let's agree to have a conversation with the CBL, take this point and inform the Chamber about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u366	That must be a tough deal, because we know the CBL longer than we do today. They often say things that sound good, and then they don't. That's what my question is about. The Secretary of State says we're going to change that food environment. But it's all non-binding: it's stimulating and seducing. We're not from yesterday. We've been through scientists...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u367	And the question is, Mrs. Ouwehand?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u368	Well, I have here a position paper from Utrecht University that I just want to give to the Secretary of State for a moment, because in my second term I will make proposals to make it really sharper, so that we know that the result will be achieved. I understand the Secretary of State wants it. I trust him on that, too. But with no binding measures, we just know we're not gonna get there. So I'm gonna give this position paper to the messenger, and then we're gonna come back to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u369	That's good. It's being copied and distributed. Mrs. Diertens?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u370	I might be able to save Mrs. Diertens an interruption, because...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u371	How do you know that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u372	I haven't answered a question from her about the rural GLI. I've got it right here in front of me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u373	Is that what you wanted to ask, Mrs. Diertens? No, that's not what her interruption is about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u374	No, my question concerns the motion adopted on 14 June 2018. It has been promised that only child marketing for the Disk of Five would be allowed. Can you now promise that this will be carried out immediately? It's been over a year, and I just think that's too long.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u375	In the context of the Prevention Agreement, the agreement has not been made that we will enforce it. There is no legal obligation to limit kids marketing to the Disk of Five. The licensed characters will be completed, as I just indicated. We've already agreed on that. That means that unhealthy products are no longer promoted through those characters. What we still want, at least, is that we are certainly not going to ban it from happening in the other direction: that healthy products are being promoted in this way. We are not going to ban it, and I would even encourage it. There's already one grocery store working on that. I think others will follow, but in the light of the Prevention Agreement this is not mandatory. That's what it says.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u376	But it has been submitted before, both to VWS and to LNV. Mr De Groot did this to LNV and I did it to VWS. That motion was passed then, almost Chamberwide. Then I think, "Why doesn't it happen?" It's been a year now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u377	I just promised Mrs. Dik-Faber I'd talk to the CBL. Shall I take this on the agenda, too? But I am not changing the Prevention Agreement with that at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u378	Okay. And then you'll inform the Chamber about the outcome, I presume.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u379	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u380	Who was there before, Mr. Veldman or Mrs. Van Kooten-Arissen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u381	I'm glad the Secretary of State says he wants to cut kids' marketing for unhealthy products. I think it's really time to ban kids marketing for unhealthy products. The Secretary of State says he wants to promote kids marketing for the Disk of Five, but does he recognise that a non-plant diet, i.e. with animal products that are also part of the traditional Disk of Five, can also have a negative impact on health?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u382	I would find that very strange in itself if something conforms to the Five Disk. Then we can have a discussion about the filling of the Five Disk, but that is in itself a separate discussion. If something is Disc of Five proof, we agree in the Netherlands that it is also justified. If kids marketing fits within that framework, I think we all applaud it, especially in the light of where we come from, because now kids marketing focuses on the unhealthy stuff.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u383	There are a lot of studies that show that over-consumption of meat and dairy products does indeed have a negative effect on health and encourage all kinds of welfare diseases. Wouldn't it be a good idea to promote the protein transition to a more plant-based diet and to promote a fully plant-based and balanced Disk of Five alongside the traditional Disk of Five? This allows you to promote the protein transition to a plant-based diet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u384	I understand that thought and I even think it is a sympathetic thought, but I think there has never been consensus in the Chamber that we should go to a vegetable Disk of Five. In response to your question, however, I would like to say that the Disk of Five, as we know it now, is based on less meat consumption than we all have now. There is a shift in favour of vegetable. If we make that battle, even with kids marketing, at least we've made quite a move, even in the direction you're aiming at. But I haven't seen a request here to make a vegetable Disk of Five and until there is any support for it in the Chamber, I'm not going to use it as a separate vehicle to make it even more complicated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u385	Fortunately, it is a nice trend that more and more people want to eat vegan and have a more plant-based diet, but sometimes they don't know how to do it as healthy as possible. In addition to the traditional Five Disk, I think it would be very good if the government also wanted to promote a well-balanced Five Plant Disk. It's just an idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u386	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his commitment to Mrs Dik-Faber to return to the CBL. Mrs Dik-Faber referred to the same meeting in which I was also present and where the CBL made a very clear gesture and said that it was best to make a number of further agreements. My question is about sport. Yes, it is true that there are a number of things in the Prevention Agreement that are moving around and that this can also contribute to reducing overweight, but it is a little non-binding. "Free" I mean in the sense that the unique structure of sports associations we have in the Netherlands is of course worth gold and that we can do a lot with that. The sports associations themselves want to do more than they do now...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u387	And the question is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u388	... especially for 55-plussers who can also work out during the day and for young people from disadvantaged areas, but that also requires something from us. Now I see on a number of other points that a budget is clearly labeled.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u389	Mr. Veldman!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u390	I don't see that at this point. Why have not such agreements been made, including for sports associations...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u391	The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u392	...clear is what they can do?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u393	As Mr Veldman also knows, the budgets that we can set aside under the Prevention Agreement are quite limited. I have referred once again to the link that exists with the Sports Agreement. There are also resources, which are quite substantial, with which the municipalities are supported. I would rather use this route to clear resources than the scarce resources we have in the light of the Prevention Agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u394	Mr Renkema, a brief question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u395	The last question, at least, if I'm right. I am still thinking about the three partial agreements. In fact, we can be most satisfied with the agreement that did not include industry. In 2018, RIVM said that self-regulation does not lead to sugar reduction. The Secretary of State has also made some critical remarks this evening about the agreements on improving product composition. It's just a very small step forward. My question to the Secretary of State is whether he can guarantee that the food logo will not give the industry the last word, but that he will take responsibility for himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u396	The answer is very simple: yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u397	Okay. Then I suggest you start with the next block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u398	Alcohol. Maybe I'm too optimistic, but those are fewer questions, so we need to be able to do it faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u399	All right, we'll hold you to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u400	Mr Veldman referred to a meter of beer in his first question and said that eight times three is also eleven. We must be careful not to fall into caricatures, but this example has been presented at the table alcohol by the sports federations themselves. They said they could think of that as an example. If Mr Veldman asks me how much he should imagine, I would say: go first and ask the sports sector, which comes with it. It's just an illustration. Perhaps very creative people can make something nice out of it, but it has been mentioned alongside a number of other very concrete measures, for example the advertising signs along the fields where only 0.0 can be promoted. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Dik-Faber said that alcohol measures should help to better reach young people and that we should have a good campaign so that we can reach young people to moderate. When will this become concrete? When will the research become insightful? The research in which young people are confronted with alcohol advertising and marketing will be carried out in spring 2020. On the basis of this study, the alcohol industry and the providers for the year 2021 will propose measures to limit the reach and influence of young people through alcohol advertising. This is also in line with what is stated in the Prevention Agreement. Mrs Dik-Faber also asked why the Secretary of State did not opt for a minimum price for alcohol, as in Scotland. I communicated the route we have chosen, also in response to a motion tabled by Mr Van der Staaij on this subject some time ago. We will have a study of the effects of the measure in Scotland. Scotland isn't the only one doing that now; Ireland is also doing that. We're going to discuss the results of the investigation. We'll point it out. Of course, we'll share that with the Chamber. In the area of alcohol moderation, therefore, the measure of minimum prices was not chosen as a measure to be taken, but the investigation was taken very seriously. In particular, experience in Scotland and Ireland is involved. The most appealing action, which is actually the only legal action, is to limit stunts to 25%. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Dik-Faber also asked about the relationship with Mr Ziengs' own-initiative proposal. Does this undermine the objective of the Prevention Agreement? Mr Renkema has asked questions about this too, and perhaps others have. As soon as that bill was presented, I thought I said that a proposal which increases the number of supply points of alcohol is at least at odds with the objectives of the Prevention Agreement. So I think they're very difficult to reconcile. We have had an investigation into this, and we have also sent it to the Chamber in which those effects are reflected. I assume that in due course will be involved when the bill is discussed here. I answered the question about the blurring proposal. Mrs Kuik asked whether the minimum price study would include support. The answer is: yes, of course, support is involved, in order to be able to make that translation if there is evidence that there are handles. Mrs Kuik also said that alcohol is extra harmful for young people and that measures are very important for young people. What can we find out about the coming school year? A lot of things. I can send a list, so to speak, but the Prevention Agreement states that the percentage of young people under 18 who start drinking should be reduced. The ultimate ambition is of course no longer drinking under 18. We use this from different angles, for example with the continuation of the NIX18 campaign. That's in the campaign sphere. I would also like to mention better compliance with the age limit. Those two things are gonna set the tone next year. For example, there will also be an explicit commitment to education at school next year. There has been an integral investment in the Healthy School programme. This aspect is explicitly given a place. From now on, and also in 2020, we are working on the development of effective interventions in the field of alcohol, aimed at young people. Mr Mulder asked: are you really going to ban the Holland Heineken House? I do not know in which media Mr Mulder read that, but it was not one of the plans. It's not in the Prevention Agreement either. In that respect, Mr Mulder can go to sleep tonight. Moreover, I remain of the opinion that a Holland Heineken House has a very bad attitude towards top sport, but there are people who want that third half. It has not yet been banned in the Netherlands. Mr Van der Staaij said that there are many effective measures, but we are not yet putting them into practice. Could they still be deployed? Yes, the answer is very simple. We have launched a number of interventions. A number of them have been abandoned. This is true of what I said to you in the beginning as a general remark. If one of the themes shows that ambitions and measures are getting too far out of hand, we can also discuss other interventions that are already known or new ones. But already saying "we're going to put a tooth on top of it" is very difficult to relate to the agreements we made. There are, moreover, a number of studies still in progress, for example, on the minimum price. That's what we're going to talk to your room about separately. Mr. Chairman. This was the alcohol part. I'm ready for the rest of my life. Mr Van Gerven asked: does the Secretary of State have any intention of legally anchoring the right to prevention? In the Public Health Act, municipalities have a prevention function. This is not a legal anchoring of the law, but it is a very important task for municipalities. Through the People's Research Act, I make early detection of diseases possible. This agreement adds an important instrument for lifestyle. I think it's really a step too far right now to anchor it in the law. So the answer is no, because we already have a lot of bonds. Why doesn't dental care come back in the package? That is how Mr Van Gerven asked. The basic package is part of Minister Bruins' task package. It's his responsibility. In the coalition agreement, no money is currently earmarked for that particular question, because it costs a lot of money. It is a noble wish, but it certainly cannot be accepted financially at all in the light of agreements in the coalition agreement. If the question continues to burn, would you ask it again to Minister Bruins, who is primarily responsible for this? Then the point of the nitrous oxide, a bit of a strange duck in the bite of this debate, but very relevant. I recognise the concerns expressed by a number of spokesmen, Mrs Dik-Faber and certainly Mrs Kuik, about the improper use of nitrous oxide. As I have already reported to the Chamber, I have commissioned the Coordination Point Assessment and Monitoring (CAM) to examine new drugs to also reflect the effects of small consumption. That research will be completed this autumn. Meanwhile, we in the department are considering which policy options can then be used to fight, if necessary, against the improper use of nitrous oxide. As was mentioned earlier in the debate, there will be a separate debate on drug policy, I thought at the beginning of October. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Kuik and Mrs Ploumen asked what measures the Secretary of State intends to take to eliminate health inequalities between people with high theoretical education and those with practical training and low income. I have already told you at the beginning of my story that the interventions we are aiming for with this Prevention Agreement are a very important contribution to health benefits for people with practical training and low income. It is true that matters that have everything to do with this are, I call debt relief, the absence of work, a less healthy physical environment, which is extremely important. This is also mentioned separately in the agreement, without linking it with measures. But as you may know, local prevention agreements are now being concluded. A lot of municipalities are working on that. I am in intensive conversation with this and I want to give this as a separate focus to those local authorities: think about these issues, because debt relief can have anything to do with health problems and also with lifestyle diseases. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van der Staaij's general question, and also Mrs Kuik and Mrs Dik-Faber's question on the standardization of drugs, should also be put to the debate on drug policy. I have already stated in a letter to the Chamber that Minister Grapperhaus and I, each on his own responsibility, are doing everything possible to prevent the normalization of drugs. Mr President, I'm almost done. I think I have two further questions to ask. Oh, no, they're about drugs again. I've already said something about that. This place is full of drugs, Mr. Chairman. I don't have anything else.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u401	Thank you. Then we have reached the second term of office, but before I give the floor to Mr Veldman, I should like to suspend for a moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u402	Let's move on to the second term of office. I give the floor to Mr Veldman on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u403	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his commitment to research into new products. For the sake of clarity, I would like to point out that although there is a lot of talk about e-cigarette in the debate, this is, of course, a collective name for all kinds of new products. I don't know them all, and I don't use them, but you have, like, IQOS, Juul, those glow things, and there's more. It is a good thing that this is looked at in the context of harm reduction, because, following the United Kingdom, harm reduction may also lead to substantially fewer smokers of the traditional cigarette. Mr. Chairman. Too bad the Secretary of State, as well as a large part of this Chamber, doesn't embrace the VVD's desire to give those entrepreneurs room. That is certainly regrettable if I may quote the Secretary of State from one of the national newspapers, when it was about possibly speeding up the closure of smoking rooms. Despite his desire to do things quickly, he said, and I quote: "It must be based on good governance, social support and a decent term." That seems to me to be a statement that is more than appropriate to the VVD's desire to grant retailers a delay that year, especially since the internet consultation that took place in 2017 also stated the date on 1 January 2022. We've gone a year ahead. I don't think that's fair. I do not think it is fair for cigars either, because I think we are going to be the only country in Europe that cuts cigars under the same category as cigarettes, while other countries say that cigars over 3 grams cannot be classified below the same level. Mr. Chairman. It's pretty clear. Let me make it clear to Mr Mulder: I have not asked a question a few times for nothing. I count about 90 seats that do not agree with the VVD's desire to create this exception. Am I going to file a motion now? No, because I can just count. My position is clear. Because that's what you asked: what does the VVD think? I have now repeated it again. The VVD feels differently about this, but I don't see a majority. Then filing a motion is quite pointless.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u404	That discussion has been held.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u405	I would therefore like to congratulate the President-in-Office of the Council in her wish that we should reduce this huge amount a little bit, but that does not change the position of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u406	Thank you, Mr. Veldman. I now give the floor to Mr Van Gerven on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u407	Mr. Chairman. I've got four motions, so I'm gonna start soon. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the tobacco industry does not contribute to the costs of combating smoking, preventing smoking or supporting smoking cessation, but does make profits over the backs of addicted people;]] [[noting that the government has recently introduced a gambling addiction fund;]] [[Considering that the polluter must pay;]] [[calls on the Government to set up a tobacco addiction fund under which the tobacco industry is legally obliged to pay a percentage of the gross turnover in the Netherlands annually into this fund to promote the smoke-free generation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the National Prevention Agreement endorses the fact that a reduction in the number of sales points of tobacco helps to reduce (in particular) the number of young people who start smoking;]] [[noting that the National Prevention Agreement does not pay sufficient attention to compliance with the age limit for tobacco sales;]] [[Whereas sufficient evidence has been provided that the introduction of an authorisation system for the sale of tobacco is an effective measure;]] [[calls on the Government to introduce a licensing system for tobacco sales in order to reduce the number of points of sale of tobacco and to improve compliance with the age limit for tobacco sales,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Gerven, Mr Ploumen and Mr Renkema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32793-410]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Van Gerven, Mr Ploumen and Mr Renkema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32793-411]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u408	Mr President, then one last, given the time. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the food industry has for years been promising a significant reduction in the quantities of fat, sugar and salt in their foodstuffs;]] [[noting that despite these promises by the food industry, which only apply to a small number of products, there is still too much salt, sugar and saturated fat in our food;]] [[noting that self-regulation and non-committalism through, among other things, the Improved Product Composition Agreement in this area have not led to the desired and necessary effects;]] [[calls on the Government to legislate on maximum quantities of fat, salt and sugar in foodstuffs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Gerven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32793-412]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u409	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u410	Thank you, Mr. Van Gerven. I now give the floor to Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u411	Thank you, Mr President. I asked the Secretary of State if he agrees with the Animal Party that the government should help people to protect their health and his answer was absolutely yes. That is beautiful and I believe that too, but then you have to do things differently, because, as has been proven in the past, non-committalism has failed. That is why we are making a number of proposals to help the Secretary of State in his ambition. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting the importance of access to healthy and sustainable food;]] [[calls on the Government to reduce VAT on fruit and vegetables to the lowest possible level,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32793-413]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u412	I have signed a number of motions with colleagues Ploumen and Renkema concerning a ban on children's marketing and tobacco and they are signing a number of motions with me, including the following. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, at the request of the Dutch Government, the Environment and Infrastructure Council (Rli) issued an opinion on a healthy and sustainable food policy;]] [[Considering that the Rli recommends that the target of reducing the proportion of animal protein in the diet to 40% of total protein consumption by 2030 be set as a target;]] [[calls on the government to adopt the Rli's recommendations as regards healthier and more sustainable food consumption,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ouwehand, Mr Renkema and Mr Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32793-414]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u413	Then the next one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, according to all experts, the food environment has a very significant impact on the actual food choices that people make;]] [[noting that the food environment in the Netherlands is characterised to a large extent by a lack of healthy, not very sustainable supply and that the Prevention Agreement does not change much or anything;]] [[calls on the Government to develop plans to make the food environment in the Netherlands healthier, more sustainable and (i.e.) much more plant-based and thus to support people in their efforts to eat healthier, more sustainable and more animal-friendly food, and to inform the Court of Justice of this before 1 January 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ouwehand, Mr Renkema and Mr Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32793-415]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u414	Finally, Mr President. I had done it through an interrupting debate, but I would really like to know what the state of play is with greening schoolyards and children's playgrounds. As far as I am concerned, the Secretary of State may return to the budget, but let us not forget that aspect of a healthy environment for children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u415	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Sazias on behalf of 50PLUS.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u416	Thank you, Mr President. I very much welcome the Secretary of State's commitment to the importance of clinical elimination for serious smoking addicts. I have a motion here that actually says the same thing. There are so many signatories underneath that I would like to submit her. I'd like to hear the Secretary of State's response to that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a group of smokers does not benefit sufficiently from the available offer of treatments that are (are) reimbursed and fail to stop time and time again;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the possibilities for smokers who cannot stop using available treatments to achieve clinical treatment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Sazias, Mr Ploumen, Mr Van Gerven, Mr Renkema, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Ouwehand and Mr Van Kooten-Arissen.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32793-416]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u417	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas RIVM has concluded that the objectives of the Improved Product Composition Agreement will not be achieved by the end of 2020 because too few and insufficient ambitious commitments have been made to reduce the content of salt, saturated fat and sugar in processed foods, making significant progress only for a limited number of product groups;]] [[Whereas the Government, together with other parties, intends to introduce a new national system of product improvement in 2021;]] [[Whereas this new system will only be a success if clear agreements are made on reduction targets and a timetable;]] [[calls on the Government, together with the relevant stakeholders, to reach clear agreements on independent reduction targets for salt, saturated fat and sugar (in particular sugar in children's products) for a substantial number of products, accompanied by an ambitious timetable, and to inform the Court of Justice of this before the summer of 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Diertens. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32793-417]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u418	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the recreational use of nitrous oxide is dangerous for health and road safety, causes nuisance and, in addition, contributes to the climate problem with emissions of 0.1 megatons of CO equivalent;]] [[noting that more and more municipalities and festivals prohibit the sale and recreational use of nitrous oxide, but do not have sufficient tools to prevent the nuisance;]] [[considers that the agreements made by the Cabinet with sellers on voluntary restrictive measures relating to the sale of nitrous oxide patterns have not been sufficient and that further measures are therefore necessary;]] [[calls on the Government, in addition to ongoing risk assessments, to examine the legal possibilities for banning the sale of nitrous oxide for recreational use with a view to achieving a legal ban as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Kuik. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32793-418]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u419	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for answering all the questions, congratulating him and wishing him every success in implementing the Prevention Agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u420	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Renkema on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u421	Thank you. I have four motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that good information on consumer goods promotes public health;]] [[having noted that the Consumers' Association and foodwatch advocated the Nutriscore system, inter alia, because it was developed independently of the food industry;]] [[calls on the government to force the Nutriscore as soon as possible according to French, Belgian and Spanish examples, taking into account the Dutch Disc of Five,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that children in Sweden have been receiving free hot school meals of high nutritional value for decades;]] [[noting that the number of overweight children in Swedish schools has virtually disappeared and the timely learning of healthy eating habits has been rewarding for life;]] [[Calls on the Government to investigate the cost and practical feasibility of free healthy, organic lunches in primary and secondary education;]] [[calls on the Government to take into account the high workload and staff shortages in schools and to leave the coordination and financing of such a proposal to the Ministry of Education and Science,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the Cabinet raised the low VAT rate from 6% to 9%;]] [[Considering that in the last ten years, fruit and vegetables have become as much as 20% more expensive and that, according to the CBS, all food products have increased most in price;]] [[Whereas fruit and vegetables are the basis of a healthy lifestyle and should therefore be affordable for everyone;]] [[calls on the Government to reduce the VAT rate for fruit and vegetables to 6%,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Renkema and Mr Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32793-419]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Renkema and Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32793-420]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Renkema and Mr Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32793-421]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u422	And then a final motion on tobacco. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the price increase of cigarettes to €10 is essential in order to achieve the objective of the government agreement on a smoke-free generation;]] [[Considering that the Cabinet would like to carry out an evaluation of possible border effects before it reaches such a price increase of €10;]] [[believes that it is of great social importance to discourage young people from smoking and that current smokers should be helped as far as possible to stop smoking;]] [[calls on the government to engage with neighbouring countries in order to increase excise duty jointly;]] [[calls on the Government to increase prices to €10 per cigarette pack by 2021;]] [[calls on the government to invest additional excise revenue from tobacco in more intensive guidance for those who want to quit smoking,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Renkema, Mr Ploumen and Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32793-422]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u423	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Secretary of State for a single, very common commitment. I have a number of proposals, which he must regard as support. There's four of them. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that people with lower levels of education and low incomes live on average seven years shorter and 18 years less well than others;]] [[considers that special attention should be paid to those whose health is most disadvantaged;]] [[calls on the Government to take additional measures to this end within the framework of the National Prevention Agreement and to inform the Court of Justice thereof for budgetary treatment,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that almost half of adults and one in eight young people are overweight;]] [[Whereas the introduction of a sugar tax in other countries has proved to be a major success;]] [[calls on the Government to prepare and submit to the Chamber various variants of a sugar tax for January 2020 in preparation for the introduction of a sugar tax,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that almost 12% of Dutch young people are overweight;]] [[Considering that despite promises made by the food industry, children are still the target of sophisticated advertising campaigns for unhealthy products;]] [[noting that the agreements in the new Advertising Code for Foods made in relation to food marketing aimed at children up to 13 years of age are not effective enough;]] [[calls on the Government to strengthen agreements on child marketing by 2020 and to introduce a comprehensive ban on child marketing in 2022 and to actively enforce these agreements by imposing fines on infringements detected,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Ploumen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32793-423]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ploumen and Mr Renkema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32793-424]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ploumen, Mr Renkema, Mr Ouwehand and Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32793-425]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u424	Last one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that despite the signing of the WHO Anti-Lobbying Convention Framework Convention on Tobacco Control, there are still many contacts between the tobacco industry and the Dutch government and policy makers;]] [[Whereas there is no monitoring of the implementation of the Anti-Lobby Convention and sanctions in the event of infringements and the consequences of the tobacco lobby are unknown;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate in the short term the tobacco lobby and its effects and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Ploumen, Mr Renkema, Mr Van Gerven, Mr Sazias, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen and Mr Ouwehand.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32793-426]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u425	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u426	Thank you, Mrs Ploumen. I now give the floor to Mrs Kuik on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u427	Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Secretary of State for replying. I have a number of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Prevention Agreement agreed that the number of sales points for tobacco products would be reduced, but that the exact number of sales points is unknown;]] [[Whereas certain retail chains, such as the Lidl, have already decided on their own to stop selling tobacco products;]] [[Calls on the Government to carry out a zero measurement of the number of tobacco outlets in the Netherlands and to monitor how this number is developing in the coming years and to inform the Court annually;]] [[calls on supermarkets to stop selling tobacco products;]] [[notes, furthermore, that if the number of tobacco outlets does not fall substantially in the years to come, and in any event before 2022, legal measures should be taken to ensure that tobacco products are only available for sale in specialist shops at the most,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the popularity and thus the recreational use of nitrous oxide is increasing;]] [[noting that the dangers of large-scale recreational use of nitrous oxide to health, road safety and the environment are becoming increasingly apparent;]] [[whereas several municipalities experience nuisance from the recreational use of nitrous oxide, but they do not have sufficient tools to prevent this nuisance;]] [[calls on the Government to legally restrict the sale of nitrous oxide for recreational use,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Kuik and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32793-427]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Kuik and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32793-428]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u428	Finally, Mr President. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the standardisation of hard drug use has disastrous effects on safety and health;]] [[noting that the existing comprehensive approach to drug prevention appears to be seriously inadequate;]] [[calls on the government to come forward with proposals to effectively reduce drug use,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Kuik and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32793-429]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u429	Thank you to the Secretary of State for the much work and commitments I have been given. I have one motion on the healthy region. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that recent research has shown that living well outside the city has become more difficult;]] [[noting that in shrinking regions, in particular Friesland, Groningen, Drenthe and South Limburg, people with lower incomes and lower levels of education are lagging behind, groups with an average higher weight;]] [[calls on the government to allow rural communities to set up health programmes in the form of living labs within the programmes currently available from the Empire, aimed at healthy nutrition, more exercise and psychosocial support to sustain behavioural change, at least involving municipalities, psychosocial assistance and insurers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Diertens and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32793-430]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u430	Madam President, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for his clear answer and also for the commitments made, particularly in the area of smoking, on which I made a number of points. I would like to table one more motion in the area of alcohol. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the standards applicable to the sale of alcohol to young people are still systematically violated;]] [[Whereas non-compliance with age limits has an impact not only on young people's health but also on nuisance and high social costs;]] [[Whereas according to the RIVM Quickscan, additional measures are needed to achieve the cabinet's ambitions with regard to problematic alcohol consumption;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the UNG, to adopt the Enforcement Protocol on Drinking and Horeca Law by this year and to call on municipalities and restaurants to make locally binding agreements to promote better compliance with the standards in force,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32793-431]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u431	Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State responded rather bossyly to my question about previous commitments. I wanted to make that point anyway. All of us here must be able to rely on a commitment from the cabinet. After all, on the basis of these commitments and answers to questions, this Chamber will vote. Hence the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Government Agreement states that preventive measures to be taken must be proven to be effective;]] [[Whereas the effectiveness of previously introduced packaging requirements has never been evaluated;]] [[noting that the introduction of neutral packaging would further strengthen the existing packaging requirements without a thorough evaluation;]] [[calls on the Government to implement new packaging requirements only after assessing the effectiveness of the previously introduced packaging requirements,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Edgar Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32793-432]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u432	Two more, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas young people do not belong to the heavy cigar user group;]] [[calls on the Government to exempt heavy cigars from the prohibition on display and further packaging requirements,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the e-cigarette is a less harmful alternative to the traditional tobacco cigarette;]] [[calls on the Government to exempt the e-cigarette from the prohibition on display and further packaging requirements,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Edgar Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32793-433]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Edgar Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32793-434]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u433	Finally: I understand the consideration of the VVD. She has not tabled these motions, but of course she can vote for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u434	You can always do that. Thank you, Mr. Edgar Mulder. Finally, I would like to give the floor to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u435	Thank you, Mr President. I'm gonna get on my motions soon. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government, in addition to the traditional Disk of Five, to promote a Plant Disk of Five to promote the protein transition to a more plant-based diet,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the current Prevention Agreement has virtually no enforceable measures;]] [[calls on the government to adopt a law on prevention before the end of the reigning period,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the supply of places of sale depends on the quantity of alcohol consumed;]] [[calls on the Government to significantly reduce the number of alcohol outlets by the end of 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considers that alcohol advertising does not belong on any sports field;]] [[calls on the government to adopt a policy to prevent alcohol advertising in professional sports,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32793-435]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32793-436]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32793-437]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Kooten-Arissen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32793-438]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u436	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u437	Thank you, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. 29 motions have been tabled. I'm looking at the Secretary of State: Shall I suspend the meeting for ten minutes?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u438	I've only got 20 motions left.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u439	They're coming, but is ten minutes enough?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u440	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u441	Okay. Then I'll suspend the meeting for ten minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u442	I give the floor to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u443	Thank you, Mr President. If I talk really fast, maybe we can stop by midnight. There are 28 motions. I'm trying to do it in high-speed. In some of the motions I can do with a very short response, because a lot has already been exchanged in the first term. I would like to thank the spokesmen very much for the constructive debate and for thinking along about making the Netherlands healthier. I hope that this debate will contribute to that. I'll walk by the motions. I shall begin with Mr Van Gerven's motions, first of all on the tobacco addiction fund. It's very simple. In the light of what I said about this in my first term, I would advise against the motion. The second motion concerns the licensing system. I think the idea is very sympathetic in itself, but I said in my first term that it is 'a variant' that is conceivable. We all want less tobacco outlets. This can be done through a licensing system, but also through a different route. I promise I'll come back to this room. Then it can be this variant or another one, and we have a debate on that. But I'm not making that choice right now, so I'm deceiving the motion. Mr Van Gerven's third motion concerns the drafting of legislation on the maximum amounts of fat, salt and sugar. In the light of the agreements we made in the Prevention Agreement, it is clear that I am not recommending this motion. Then there are Mrs Ouwehand's motions. The first has to do with the development of a food environment that can make the Netherlands healthier and more sustainable, and therefore much more plant-based. I would like to say a few words about this. With the Prevention Agreement, we are already focusing as much as possible on making the environment healthier based on the Disk of Five. Unfortunately, I am now aware that Mrs Ouwehand does not think that goes far enough. As far as I'm concerned, we're already doing a lot of... Do I have the wrong motion now? Well, I'll get to the other one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u444	Okay, that's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u445	I don't have any numbers on the motions; that's also a handicap. So I am now working on the motion on the food environment, which has been signed by Mrs Ouwehand. That's the sixth. Then I had them in the mixer; excuse. So this is about the sixth motion, Mr President, just to be clear. I understand what Mrs Ouwehand wants. In my term, I indicated that with the Prevention Agreement we are committed to a healthier environment. As part of the monitor coming next year, we can also see what we are doing about it. I would like to ask Mrs Ouwehand to give me the challenge I want to face with her, then to talk about whether we are taking the right steps. In that light, I advise against the sixth motion. I now have the motion on the Environment Council. Is that the fifth?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u446	Well, it's kind of hard for me. How come there's no numbers on it? With us, the motions are numbered, so something went wrong. Could the Secretary of State also get numbered motions? That'll make it easier.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u447	Shall I now discuss the motion on VAT? That's the fourth, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u448	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u449	I think things are gonna work out okay with the numbers, Mr. Chairman. I somehow had a copy here with no numbers. I do not recommend Mrs Ouwehand's motion on VAT. This should not be surprising in the light of what has changed in the first term. Then there is the motion on the Council for the Environment, from Ouwehand et al., which calls on the government to adopt the opinion of the Council. My colleague Minister Schouten and I have given a comprehensive response to the Chamber, and that is our response. This shows which part of the recommendation we accept and which part we do not. I refer to that, and in that light I also advise against this fifth motion. Then I'm on my way to the seventh motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u450	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u451	And then I hope I'll just follow the songs, apologize for the confusion. The seventh motion is the motion in part No. 416 by Mrs Sazias, with a lot of signatories, on clinical treatment for smokers. That is a very sympathetic motion, on which I would like to leave the judgment to the Chamber. That's what we're gonna be in the moods. Then the motion to part No. 147 by Mrs Dik-Faber, on the Agreement on the Improvement of Product Composition which we are going to put together next year. It asks me to set an ambitious timetable and clear targets for a substantial number of products. That's a sympathetic motion. I'll leave the judgment to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 418 is about nitrous oxide. That bothers me a little bit because it's a strange duck in the bite and because we're about to have a drug debate. Moreover, the last part of the operative part contains a rather far-reaching statement, namely: with the aim of achieving a legal ban as soon as possible. I said in my term that we're putting different variants in the picture. I would ask Mrs Dik-Faber to hold the motion until the debate on the drugs policy that we have in October.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u452	I suspected something like that. The petitioners are prepared to hold the motion until after the AA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u453	At the request of Mrs Dik-Faber, I propose her motion (32793, No. 418). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u454	Then I come to the motion on part No. 419 members Renkema and Ploumen on Nutriscore. They ask me to hurry and point out that it is a tried and tested instrument. It's an understandable motion, but I want to handle this by the royal route. We have taken steps in this direction and consumer research is still ongoing. I promised I'd wait and see. It may only be the Nutriscore, but it can also be something else. I want to walk the royal route. I promise, of course, that I will inform you this autumn about the steps we are going to take. In that light, I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 420 is about healthy meals for all children. It's a sympathetic motion. There is only a very thick catch, because the coordination and funding are in the hands of VWS. That's gonna come with a lot of money. Moreover, there is a lot of knowledge about this matter. I would like to make the following proposal to Mr Renkema. Would it be possible for me to send a letter to the Chamber in response to this motion, which could possibly provide a handle for a discussion on this matter? If Mr Renkema says "nothing to do with it, I maintain my motion," then I advise against the motion. But my handshake is that I send a letter to the Chamber that we can use as a handle for a conversation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u455	And what about the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u456	I'm deceiving the motion as it is now. My offer to Mr Renkema is that he may consider withdrawing or holding the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u457	I want to hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u458	At the request of Mr Renkema, I propose his motion (32793, No. 420). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u459	Then the motion to part No. 421 members Renkema and Ploumen on VAT. I just said something about that on another motion. I advise against this motion. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group). 422. In the light of the first deadline and what we agreed in the Preventive Action Agreement, it should not be surprising that I also advise against this motion. I remain consistent, because I also advise against the motion in part No. 423 by Mrs Ploumen on additional measures to the Prevention Agreement. I think that's asking about it. I think there's a nice deal. We all have the idea that there may be some things left or right that are still needed, but it is going too far for me to record that already. So it's not advisable. The motion in part No. 424 is about a sugar tax. We have said a few things about this. This motion I must advise against. The Ploumen c.s. motion in piece No. 425 is about banning child marketing when it comes to unhealthy products, even with a fine attached to them. In the light of the Prevention Agreement, self-regulation has been chosen. The appointments are pretty sharp. We want to take good steps. I promised I'd talk to the CBL about that. Force it this way now I want to dissuade. The motion in part No. So I'd like to dissuade 425. Mrs Ploumen has also tabled a motion on the FCTC Convention. The cabinet is asked to investigate the tobacco lobby and its effects, and to inform the Chamber accordingly. I understand the request, but perhaps I should remind her that we are very reluctant in contacts with industry. If there are any contacts, they are only about implementing technical matters. I remind all the other ministries of that too. I have informed all ministries, municipalities and provinces about our interpretation of Article 5.3. In that light, I think it is a bit too much to ask to put all that back in the picture. You will therefore not be surprised that I have tabled the motion in part No. 426 detachment. Then I come to the motion on part No. 427 by Mrs Kuik, which talks about the number of points of sale. If this does not fall substantially, legal measures must be taken to ensure that tobacco products are only available for sale in specialist shops at the most. The supermarkets and the cabinet are called to take zero measurements. I'll say it in reverse order. It is partly a call to society or to the Chamber itself. As far as the cabinet is concerned, that's acceptable to me. As far as the cabinet has anything to do with this, the verdict is Chamber. The motion in part No. 428 is about nitrous oxide. In response to this, I would like to say the same thing as in response to Mrs Dik-Faber's motion: to hold on and otherwise I will have to discourage the motion, because I think it is premature.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u460	I can count, too. I'll keep it on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u461	Mr. Chairman. Since Mrs Kuik is standing there, I would like to propose the same thing to the motion for a resolution on item No. 429 and for the same reason. There's going to be a drug debate. This is an even more far-reaching motion on the whole drug policy. By the way, I am speaking in the letter sent to the Chamber at the beginning of this summer on combating standardisation. For the sake of care, I would like to include this in the debate on drugs, and I therefore request that the motion be retained.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u462	I see this as an encouragement for the next debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u463	Then the motions are on pieces Nos. 428 and. 429 by Mrs Kuik and Mrs Dik-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u464	Mrs Diertens has the motion in part No. 430.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u465	Oh, I see Mrs Kuik's motion in part No. 429 won't arrest. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u466	Will the motion be in part No. 429 not apprehended?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u467	No. And then what?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u468	Frankly, I find the motion, with all due respect and sympathy for its content, premature. Because we are going to have that debate, so I would rather advise against the motion than give it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u469	Good. Then proceed. Then the motion will be put to the vote and otherwise perhaps before Tuesday...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u470	That is purely for procedural reasons, because I agree with the content. Then the motion to part No. 430 by Mrs Diertens and Mrs Dik-Faber. That motion allows living labs in rural areas. That's a nice idea. As far as I'm concerned, that judgment gets Chamber. I am now at the motion in part No. 431 by Mr Van der Staaij. It is about compliance with alcohol consumption. I consider the requests that are made in them to be very reasonable. As far as I am concerned, the motion is given in part No. 431 Judgment Room. Mr Mulder has the motion in part No. 432. It invites the Government to implement packaging requirements only after evaluation of effectiveness. We just had a nice chat about that in the first term. I maintain my view that what we are doing, plain packaging, is one of the proven effective measures. That's why I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 433 is about suspending the ban on display. We have also devoted a lot of words to this. I would strongly advise against that motion. The same applies to the motion in part No. 434, actually for the same reasons. These are all wrong steps in the fight against smoking and in the pursuit of a smoke-free generation, so not recommended. In my view, I am now at the motion for a resolution on item No. 435 by Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen. It's about a plant disk of five next to the traditional Five Disk. I think that's gonna be a complicated story. I indicated in my first term that I consider the movement towards more plant-based that we are aiming for with the Five Disk to be very important. That's also a major task. If we put this disc next to it, I think we're gonna make ourselves happy with a dead sparrow and make it more complicated. In that light, I advise against this motion. In the motion in part No. 436 is proposed a prevention law instead of or in addition to the Prevention Agreement. As far as I'm concerned, we have a nice prevention agreement. It'll always be better, but I'm happy and proud of it. I can't say enough. But I don't need a law on prevention. I don't see any added value, so I advise against this. Then the motion to part No. 432.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u471	437.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u472	Sorry, in part No. 437. That motion is about significantly lowering. There was no agreement on that under the Prevention Agreement. I don't think there's any support for that either. I'm sure there's no basis for that. So I'd like to dissuade that motion. I would also like to say to Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen that we are doing research on the number of points. Finally, the motion in part No. 438 on alcohol advertising in professional sports. Alcohol advertising must be banned not only in amateur sport, but also in professional sport, at least, it must be removed. That is a step of the industry's own. In the Prevention Agreement, that movement was made right. We're gonna do it first move in amateur fields. I hope that movement follows other sports. For example, the conversation is ongoing, which is also stated in the Prevention Agreement on alcohol advertising at major events. The aim is therefore to reduce from all sides. But this has not been agreed and there is no support for it either. I would therefore also advise against this motion. That was my comment on the motions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u473	Mrs Ploumen, a short question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u474	I had a question about playgrounds and petting zoos, and the reason why the date is different.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u475	Yes, that's true!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u476	Mr President, we are not all going to be happy about that. It is true that the objectives for non-smoking child environments have been widely discussed at the table, looking at achievable objectives by sector. Children's farms, which were already active at this point, have a head start, even in time. That movement was already going on there. It's easier for them to talk, isn't it? A lot of preparations had already been made. They can and want to go faster. All 400 locations can be smoke-free by 2020. By the way, I think that's a hell of a job. I just indicated that the 150th was added today. So there are 250 more, but they have said: we are going to save that by 2020. The goal of the NUSO, the industry organisation for playgrounds, is that 75% of the playgrounds will be non-smoking in 2020. All they say is that it is too big a task for us to do all that by 2020. They've asked for 2025 to be written down. Let's agree that I'm gonna have an intrusive conversation with them and say, "If the petting zoos can do it, I'm sure you can do it a little harder." But the fact is that the Prevention Agreement 2025 states. I think we can make a call with each other: if the petting zoos can do it, can you do it a little harder?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u477	I appreciate the Secretary of State wanting to do that. Would he like to inform us about that? I can imagine they'd need an extra year, but nobody wants their kid playing in a playground where people smoke, right? A letter that it will be 2021 would be super nice. Especially for our children.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u478	That's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u479	Thank you. That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-09-03-tweedekamer-9.u480	We will vote on the motions tabled next Tuesday. I thank the MPs, the Secretary of State, the people of the Stenographic Service, the people in the public gallery; everyone in fact.
