ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u1	We are now going to have a debate on the social state of the Netherlands. The Minister for Social Affairs and Employment is the one with whom this debate will take place. We have nine spokesmen, I see on the list of speakers. The speaking time per spokesperson is four minutes. I am now the first to give the floor to Mr Gijs van Dijk of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u2	Mr. Chairman. I am warning you, because this debate is basically about everything. So four minutes is a little short, but we're gonna try. Mr. Chairman. "New, unprecedented possibilities for improving the quality of our all existence, as well as unimaginable risks of destruction and destruction: these are the two controlling characteristics of our time." According to Joop den Uyl in 1963. Den Uyl argues that the unprecedented private growth of production and consumption also entails an obligation: to combat poverty, to ensure that groups do not live below the minimum standard of living and to strengthen community services. All this serves to prevent the American phenomenon of private wealth and public poverty. I was reminded of this quote by Den Uyl when I was preparing this debate and read The social state of the Netherlands. Why? The Netherlands is doing well, on the one hand. We are happy, unemployment is falling, confidence is high and we are willing to help each other around. But underneath there's something slumbering. Because the key word for many people is uncertainty. That's what the Social and Cultural Planning Office says. There's uncertainty about the future, uncertainty about your children's future, uncertainty about your job. Because what's a job worth if you end up having to make ends meet at the end of the month and you're not protected if you fall off your bike and have bad luck? And what's a house worth if you have to pay $1,000 a month for it? What's education worth if there's a shortage of good teachers? On the one hand we are happy, but on the other hand we have never been so busy; burn-out is the biggest sicker in the Netherlands. We are prosperous, but at the same time one in nine children lives in poverty. We got a lot of people working after the crisis, but at the same time we also have many working poor, as we call it. So this time, like Joop den Uyl's time, is about the quality of life. This cabinet has the best starting position of the Cabinets in the 40 years before. Economic prosperity is coming towards all of us; there are enormous investment opportunities. And what does the Cabinet choose? For lowering the profit tax by 4 billion. Meanwhile, there is a high demand for affordable homes, a high demand for certain jobs, a high demand for reduction of own risk, a high workload for teachers, nurses and agents. They ask for support, including from the cabinet. So also this time is about private wealth and public poverty. Mr. Chairman. That is why I ask a number of questions to the cabinet. 'Cause what's it gonna take? Security and solid ground beneath people's feet. With solid ground under your feet you dare to take chances again, you dare to look forward again, you dare to take a lot out of your life, you dare to start a family again, you dare to buy a house. That starts with certainty. How does the Cabinet see this? If this time is about economic prosperity, but at the same time there are people living in uncertainty, what is the answer of the cabinet? How's it going to give that solid ground under people's feet? Mr. Chairman. I want to take three developments out of that. First of all, we live in a time of digital revolution. This means that work is changing, work is disappearing and work is getting back on track. Many people see this movement, but at the same time crave a certain basis. How's the cabinet gonna handle this? What are the risks of these developments for people and the secure basis? Secondly, is the Minister prepared to do so because this is just a four-minute debate to give a standard reaction to the social state of the Netherlands, and also to give a security monitor where you are actually going to look behind the figures? Because we often talk about figures here in The Hague, but we need to talk about people in particular. This concerns the quality of public services, work stress and people's satisfaction. Finally, the working poor. 'Cause what's a job worth if you have to make ends meet? Is the Minister prepared to get a better picture of these people and talk to municipalities to see how we can better help these people, with an extra eye for the self-employed? Because that's the largest group of the working poor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Van Weyenberg, D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. This debate was requested over a year ago. Unfortunately, it happens often that there is a lot of time in between. Sometimes that leads to really weird situations when you talk about things that are a long time ago. That is certainly not the case today, even if it is that the advantage of talking about the social state 2017, the report of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, at least today allows me to get involved in the 2018 report, because that is what we have in the meantime. I agree with Mr Gijs van Dijk's question as to whether we can even look a little more broadly at how we can embed this more in our regular conversations, because in four minutes talking about the whole social state of the Netherlands means that we all have to zoom in on a number of points. By definition, we are doing injustice to this important issue. Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is doing well. Mr Gijs van Dijk said the same thing. If you look at all the numbers, we're in the Happiness Index. How happy are we? "Sixth place in the world." We may have the best healthcare system in the whole of the European Union. Even since the crisis is over, you can see that in the labour market all signals are on the green. More and more people are getting jobs. The last year alone there were 268 000 additional jobs. You don't see that in the purchasing power figures. They're all families, all people who suddenly have an income and experience less uncertainty. That's very good news. Unemployment has not been so low since 2008. But behind these fine figures, reality is always hidden. I would even like to say that as things get better, it is all the more our responsibility to look at it precisely for the group that does not get it, the group that does not think it can go through. We have to take good care of that. I am thinking of people who are not out of debt, people who are worried about whether they will still have work tomorrow, people who will not find that work, however well they are, people who cannot buy their homes and people who are stuck in flexwork and cannot find the security they are looking for. Mr. Chairman. The cabinet is doing a lot to deal with this and is trying to use the post-crisis recovery, but there is still a lot of work to be done. We are talking next week, for example, about the Labour Market in Balance Act. And, yes, even when it comes to self-employed people, Mr Gijs van Dijk said that rightly so, it is a quest to give real self-employed people more space, but also to do something about vulnerable self-employed people. Therefore also a minimum rate under which you become an employee. Although European law seems to be complicated, we really must continue to talk about it. For example, there are many issues in the social state that we need to discuss. What can we do, for example, about this large group of people who are long-term in welfare and who are not getting out? This is not about tough, tighter, tighter. We must ensure that we do not forget this group, neglect it and perhaps leave it to its fate. There is also a debate on this in another room today. I really think that's a big responsibility. Mr. Chairman. I tabled a motion with Mr Wiersma on how to prepare for a new crisis. Things are going well now, but how is the preparation going when the weather is less, precisely because we know that some groups will be extra vulnerable? I think about older people losing their jobs or people with a migration background. In a crisis, the latter group simply appears to have increased unemployment rates much faster, and so it appears to be less likely to have a job. Could the Minister, in his note, consider how we can be ready for a next labour market crisis, specifically looking at groups that have always proved to be particularly vulnerable in the past? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I have two more research questions. Capital inequality is high in the Netherlands, but it would be average if you also looked at pension assets. Can the Minister tell us what the latest state of affairs is and how power inequality can continue in unequal opportunities? Equality of opportunity is always very important to my group. Mr. Chairman. In fact, income inequality is falling slightly again, according to the latest study of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, but in recent decades the difference in the primary income distribution, i.e. purely from work, has increased. In the US, this leads to very large growing inequality at the end. In the Netherlands, we often know that with a very complicated set of measures. But what really explains this underlying increasing primary income inequality, in which also the productivity of people with high education often seems to increase stronger than that of people with lower education. What can we do about it? Shouldn't the Minister take a closer look at that? We keep trying to straighten it out, but I'm curious about a deeper analysis of the causes. Thank you for your coulance, Chairman, for these 17 seconds extra.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u5	We are actually in a crazy situation: the economy is growing and the money is plotting against the plinths, but on the other hand we also see an increase in poverty, even in people who work and are in poverty; it is called "working poor." We've seen two intrusive Pauw broadcasts about people saying, "I just can't make ends meet." That number has increased considerably over the last 15 years, to as many as 320,000 working poor people. What measures would D66 want to take to help this group?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u6	For starters, you have a group of people in debt. You can see in practice that, for example, workers in debt are often not helped enough by their municipalities. I read again this morning about self-employed people who are actually excluded from municipal debt relief. In my view, therefore, there is a great task for the cabinet. I would like to use this extra speaking time to give this particular question to the Minister, especially for workers in poverty and in debt. In addition, you can see that you can help the groups that have the greatest chance of being working poor, on the one hand, by reducing taxes. I think that we really need to call our tax system into question, because you can see that it is very difficult to support those people, because they often do not pay taxes. That really is a search for the tax spokesmen in this Chamber, from left to right. There appear to be two specific groups. Firstly, there are people with very flexible work: call workers and small part-time jobs. I think that, when dealing with the Labour Market Act in balance, we need to talk about this properly in order to improve the perspective for those groups, too. Secondly, there is a large group of self-employed people. As I said in my own contribution, the cabinet has an approach to protect more false self-employed people and very vulnerable self-employed people at the bottom. That seems to be very complicated, but that task is considerable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u7	Mr. Van Dijk, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u8	You can lower taxes. You can also raise wages; I'll give you that. Another point that annoyed those people was the surcharge system. There was someone who said that if I work one month in a year, the supplement of a whole year will be recovered from me. Does Mr Van Weyenberg share the view that this surcharge system is complicated and sometimes demotivates people to work because of the poverty trap and that we need to see how this can be improved?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u9	Yes, more than that: together with a large number of spokesmen, including the tax spokesperson of the SP, I have asked the cabinet to look at this very specifically, because it is complicated. We'll do a few things there, by the way. Of some fees you lost a very large part in one go if you made €1 more. We're going to do that much more slowly now. In my view, this is partly also an answer to the concern that Mr Jasper van Dijk rightly points out, but I think that we should look more broadly in the tax system and in the surcharges how work is going to pay even more. We are already trying to do things for that, but there is still a great deal to do. I am pleased to find the SP on my side.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u10	I am pleased that Mr Van Weyenberg is calling for attention to be paid to the people at the bottom who work. I shall come back to that in my speech. We're worried about the low-income advantage. I wonder why we are subsidising employers to give people as low a income as possible and to keep that income that way, because that means that those employers continue to keep that subsidy. Couldn't we give that money much better to those workers?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u11	That low-income advantage was once conceived by Minister Asscher of the Labour Party. I thought that was a very good idea, because it seeks to ensure that employers also dare to employ people with less earning capacity. That sounds like a social thing to me. In effect, you only see that, if you're just on some of those boundaries, an employer doesn't pay to pay someone €1 more. I think that's wrong. I therefore welcome the principle that it is more attractive to offer jobs to people with less education. I am still in favour of that, and I actually think you are behind it. But if there are problems in the design of this, we really need to look at it, because you do not want to pay €1 more means that such an employer does not receive the entire income advantage and therefore does not give the one euro, €10 or €100 extra to the employee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u12	Finally, Mrs Van Brenk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u13	So you see: every advantage has its disadvantage. But here we see a lot of employers thinking: if I give them a step higher, I lose my grant. This is even €3,000 per year for young people. So it's very attractive to pay people as little as possible. That's a perverse incentive, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u14	Let me put it this way: I think it is very attractive for employers to offer them a job. The Youth LIV was a compromise when the minimum youth wage went up. I must say that my group did not have to do so. I was very happy that the minimum youth wage went up. This was apparently the compromise that employers, employees and the previous coalition had reached to make that possible. I liked that very much and then I only increased this on the buy, but I'm not a big fan of that. In general, making sure that the burden on labour also lowers for employers so that they dare to hire more people, I like, but the design that makes you with €1 more a whole part of the income... They are a kind of cohorts; now it becomes very technical. That is why I ask the Minister whether we should not even consider whether we can make it smarter in order to minimise the effect that Mrs Van Brenk describes, because I agree with her that this is undesirable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u15	Thank you, Mr. Van Weyenberg. Mr Smeulders van GroenLinks has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Netherlands is doing quite well; the previous speakers have already said this. The quality of life has really improved over the past 25 years, life expectancy has increased and we have read that we are going on holiday more and more. Of course, that's very nice. But the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau also concludes that the number of working poor has doubled since 1990, that there are still far too many children growing up in poverty and that the inequality of opportunity in education is not improving. Perhaps the main conclusion from the report is that things are generally improving, but that differences between the different population groups are increasing. Not only socio-economically, but also culturally, the gaps grow. For example, only 30% of the lower educated think that others can be trusted and 76% of the higher educated think so. Those are really huge differences. Mr. Chairman. So there is more prosperity and more well-being, but not for everyone. An increasing number of people are uncertain about their income. That nourishes unease and leads to polarization, distrust in politics and unrest. That is worrying, but it is positive that these analyses are widely shared in this Chamber. At least that's what I think. Kim Putters is a widely praised and quoted man. What I find worrying, though, is that so little happens to make those gaps really smaller, to bridge them. Apparently it lacks political courage, because the cabinet uses fine words, but it is a little non-binding. The cabinet wants to give people the opportunity to cross boundaries. That is actually the line of the Rutte Cabinets for almost ten years: take your chances and then it will be okay. The SCP shows us the consequences. In order to reverse the growing inequality in society, more is needed. As far as GroenLinks is concerned, we are committed to more certainty, like the PvdA, how often can you say "security" in four minutes? more control. I will start with that certainty, because with that the PvdA obviously has a point. That's just so important. We would like to see high-skilled and low-skilled, practically skilled and theoretically trained re-connected in a new social or social contract where everyone is making progress. More solidarity, more solidarity, but that can only be done if that basis is arranged. That is why we stand for universal social security. This means that the protection you are entitled to no longer depends on the type of contract you have. I am very curious to see how the Minister looks at this, also in relation to the committee on the future of the labour market he has put to work. Then there is the second point, which is often less attention to, namely the question of control. We have rigged all kinds of systems in the Netherlands with all good intentions, but we have to admit that these systems are increasingly working not only against the employees, but also against the users and that this really leads to despair, for example among executive professionals. That is because the public system we have is increasingly based on rules, on control and on mistrust. People feel less and less that they are still dealing with it themselves. This is due to the increasing scale and efficiency of the past decades. We really need to get back to human size, to smaller connections, to more participation and more control.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u17	Are you finishing up?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u18	I'm finishing up, Mr. Chairman. I also believe that many parties in the Chamber share that analysis and we all want it. That is why I really appeal to the cabinet to respond. Does the Minister really see the possibility of giving citizens of our country more control?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u19	Now four minutes is very short 'for everything', as Mr Van Dijk said. Several speakers have already said that. Mr Smeulders talks about control. You can also talk about ownership. But that control is an interesting theme. He asks that question to the cabinet, but could he explain what he is thinking?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u20	Thank you for this question, Mr Heerma, because that means extra speaking time in a debate with indeed four minutes' speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u21	An answer must be short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u22	Let's do it. You know that GroenLinks did the canteen tour last year. It's about discontent from many professionals, often in the public sector, including pay, but it's at least as often about the question: who is actually about their work and haven't we created too much bureaucracy together? So we are now considering this as a party: can we not give these people much more control, actually from the top of the organisation to the workplace? At the workplace it seems obvious, but can we not think, for example, about whether you have at least half of the people on the supervisory boards appointed by the employees and the users? Then the drivers are less far away and then the people who actually have to do the work and who have to use it get much more influence on the course of their own organisations. It's that kind of idea we're thinking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u23	I'm gonna take control too, because I think that's a nice thought. It's also a thought that can sometimes run counter to how we've organized it now: a lot from above, almost anonymous and mandatory. We'll throw it down from above. Cao's are sometimes an example of that. Do I hear Mr Smeulders say that he would also find it interesting to see how you can do even more justice in the workplace to the specific wishes that are there? If that means that the transcendent feeling that is there by throwing collective agreements and declaring it universally binding down is sometimes a little less big because you're giving a little more space on that work floor to fill that out, are those ideas you'd like to look at?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u24	Thank you to Mr Wiersma for his question. I know that I always have to be a little careful when Mr Wiersma asks this question, because there are often discussions about this between trade unions and employers. Then it may be clear that we will always represent the interests of the workers. What I do find interesting, and I would also like to think with you in the near future, is whether there are indeed innovative forms to be found. This could be a collective agreement, but it could also be something else, so that the control of these employees will grow without compromising security. Because those are the two points I would like to mention. As long as it's not at the expense of security, I'd really like to talk to you about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u25	Finally, Mr Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u26	We can face each other, but my intention is also to stand side by side. I come from the trade union movement, by the way, so have faith in that. In fact, I think that if we think of something beautiful and start practicing it, because I do not think you can do it very big right away, the support will be stronger for the part that we do put on top of it and on which we say that it is a basis that should always be in it. Then this is an opportunity, too. If we fly it from that capacity, we might be able to do some nice things in this area.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u27	Yeah, I'd love to. Then I would also find it interesting if the VVD wanted to consider how we could really strengthen that base for everyone. Because we also often have discussions aboutzzp'ers: what should we do for them, especially at the bottom, and what should we not? I hope the VVD is also willing to look at it with an open eye.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u28	Thank you, Mr. Smeulders. Let us now listen to Mr Jasper van Dijk of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 26 people own as much as the poorest half of the world's population. That's what Oxfam's research showed this week. This immense gap between rich and poor cannot be justified in any way. It should be the core business of this cabinet to tackle this crazy crooked growth. Do you share that opinion? In the Netherlands, too, we see distorted growth. The power inequality has been coming along for a while. So you can see that it's not that bad with the much-famous equality in our country. Look at the so-called labour income ratio, the aiq. This figure tells us more about the relationship between labour and capital. We can see that the labour factor has been significantly below that capital since 1977. In ordinary human language: profits grow like never before; wages remain behind. The Netherlands Bank concludes that it is falling aiq. is linked to the increased flexibility of the labour market. The number of people in permanent employment is falling. More and more money goes to capital owners and less to workers, because they are trapped in flex and pulp jobs. However, this minister is increasing the number of insecure jobs and wants to undermine the right of dismissal even further. The man in the street already knows it: the economy is growing, but we don't notice it. Wage developments in the Netherlands are very moderate and are lagging behind compared to other countries. Countless institutions, including again De Nederlandsche Bank, argue for a wage increase, because it is beneficial for the economy. The Prime Minister also calls for higher wages. But when is the government going to turn these empty words into action? Rabobank concludes that household disposable income has been virtually stationary for almost 40 years. For the 10% less earning households it is even worse. Their average purchasing power is now 14% lower than at the time. What happens when basic expenditure costs increase, but wages do not? Then a new category is created, the working poor. There are now around 320,000, 60% more than in 2001. They spoke in Pauw's broadcasts: people with jobs who can't make ends meet. That's called for action. They were also not happy with the surcharge system. For example, if you have worked for one month, you can refund the supplements of a whole year. What are you going to do about it? Are you also prepared to investigate how the poverty trap can be combated? I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. The SP has had the Nibud investigate whether families can live around the social minimum. The conclusion is staggering. Many families lack structural funds. A couple with two children with the minimum wage is €217 a month short. Especially one earners and large families are screwed. I'd like a response to this investigation, which I'd like to offer you. Mr. Chairman. In short, the money is messing with the skirts. It just doesn't end up with the workers. It's time for an attack plan fair distribution. Increase the minimum wage and benefits by 10%. This brings people out of poverty and can also trigger a wage surge. Should that take too long, talk to employers about higher wages and take a wage measure if necessary. Get the money where it is: increase the profits tax for companies and take the top salaries. The differences between top and workfloor shoot through the roof. Strengthen the role of employees in companies. Make flex jobs more expensive than permanent jobs and research into how to combat the poverty trap.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u30	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijk. Mr Kuzu van DENK has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u31	Thank you, Mr President. The Social Cultural Planning Agency came a long time ago, and now there's a new variant of ""with very good news: we live longer, we're healthier, we're happier, we're more educated and we're more prosperous." The average Dutchman gives his own life a 7.8. So the Dutch are doing well. But despite the fact that Dutch people give their own lives ample enough, many people in our country are also concerned about how we live together and about tensions in society. Dutch people are doing well, but Dutch people think that society is bad. A large majority of Dutch think that there are intense tensions between Muslims and non-Muslims, and between Dutch and Dutch without a migration background. So according to the view of a large majority, we have a society that would be on fire, but people do not judge that individually. And then you ask yourself, how is that possible? How can it be that an overwhelming majority of Dutch people are experiencing intense tensions, while only one in five of the same Dutch people claims to be experiencing these tensions in the immediate vicinity? So people have the feeling that groups of Dutch people are totally into each other's lives, whereas they don't really notice much of that in their own environment. The answer to the question of how to do that has a lot to do with imaging. And then we have to ask ourselves, where does this imaging come from? And then I come to the point: that has to do with politics itself, and with how we have operated in the Chamber over the last 20 to 25 years. It has to do with polarizing populists, who have been helped by a number of media in recent years. Since the rise of Fortuyn, this parliament has been demoted into a political hate club, into a distribution and ruler's association. The Second Chamber has become a kind of public gossip chamber where MPs and executives on the assembly line spit their guts on Muslims, Islam, Dutch people with a migration background and refugees. Everything for the polls and for a quote in De Telegraaf. Mr. Chairman. Politicians stir up the contradictions in society with, for example, the following statements. "I'd like to beat them all up myself; my hands itch." "I hate multicultural society." "There is no peaceful multicultural society." "I would like to close mosques and burn Korans." I do not really know what is worse: the VVD's elitist populism that we have seen in recent days and weeks with the test balloons, the racist populism of the PVV, or the fancy, eloquence racism of the Forum for Democracy. Mr. Chairman. I regret to conclude that in recent decades political parties on the left have also participated in this. There were PvdA people with, for example, the following statements. "Moroccans must be humiliated for their own group." "Moroccan youth have an ethnic monopoly on violence." "More than 80% of Turkish-Dutch and Moroccan-Dutch young people sympathize with IS." That is actually the way we know the PvdA in opposition and in campaign time: in mosques and in the street asking for the vote, but after the elections, when they are in power, the PvdA uses you as a target. We also know it from D66, which unfortunately under pressure from the VVD has opened the war on dual nationality, in exchange for power. Unfortunately, we also know it from GroenLinks. There is a Member of Parliament of GroenLinkshuize who compares Turkish-Dutch organisations with the NSB, who speaks shame when you are proud of your own country, and who gossips about groups of Dutch in the words: "A Turkish family speaks Turkish among themselves. They're watching Turkish channels." It's generalizing shit. Unfortunately, this is how it works in politics The Hague: people with a migration background are handed over to hide their own political failures. It's patsy politics. Society is divided with rhetoric to the bone, so that Henk, Ahmed, Ingrid and Fatima can above all not join forces against the alliance of the established political order and big business, which raises the risk of care, raises the energy bill and increases VAT.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u32	Thank you, Mr. Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u33	Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u34	Thank you very much. I call Mr Heerma of the CDA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u35	Mr. Chairman. How we stand in our country depends on more than a figure for economic growth or purchasing power can ever include. The social state of the SCP teaches us something about the people behind the figures, rather than the other way around, because debates here are also often about the figures behind the people. However, Mr. Van Dijk himself started this debate on the social state of 2017, while the social state of 2018 has already been published. In addition, there is far too much information and knowledge in the SCP's report to be able to exchange really well in a few minutes' debate. Mr Van Dijk and Mr Van Weyenberg have already hinted at it, but I also have that feeling: the social state deserves a better independent position in the annual debate and in the budgetary cycle. For broad prosperity there has been a committee in the past and broad prosperity now has a better position of its own, so that the debate is widened. As far as I am concerned, so should the social state. I would ask the Minister to reflect on that. Mr Smeulders has already mentioned it: if you read the social state, you will see that the Netherlands is doing well. We're doing better than we were 25 years ago. At the same time, that doesn't tell the whole story. Mr Smeulders already referred to the conclusions reached at the end of the social state. The final word remains the most important to me. It states that the high level of quality of life conceals structural differences between groups. Hard differences in areas such as loneliness, health, networks, income and social exclusion can grow into social divisions and social contradictions, and affect the quality of life. Through all the positive figures, this is the reality of people behind the figures, which the SCP also points out to us. The importance of this report is widely felt, from left to right, and this report deserves its place in the political debate. Whether it is about the rising numbers for burn-outs and hunting, or about the greater differences between higher and lower educated people and the risk of unemployment, which is very different, even in this economic tide: I see that Mr Smeulders was just there hitting a price that we pay with one another for our society. More and more applies: each for himself and the State for all of us. Individualism, which is based only on freedoms without involving responsibilities that go beyond laws can ever enforce, shows that dividing lines between winners and losers are getting sharper, especially if everything that is not explicitly prohibited by law is therefore allowed. The government's response to this is often growing distrust and a jungle of forms and checks, in which a lot of normal people get caught up again, resulting in despair and hopelessness. I see this as wrong of a thinker like John Rawls in practice, when you look at what happens in a society and how a government handles it. In addition to the social state, I also find the Citizens' Perspectives of December last year very interesting. They are about the flexible society. That's what's being looked at in a variety of ways. Many people want the benefits, but not the disadvantages of flexibility. There's ambiguity in that. The advantages and disadvantages of flexibility are divided differently. Those who have the advantage of flexibility are often not the ones who pay the price for it. There is a very interesting parallel with the labour market and the fluctuating flexibilisation, for which there is support from the left to the right to tackle it. That is why this debate, Mr Van Weyenberg, has already referred to it as an important advance and introduction to the debate that we are going to have in the coming week on the Labour Market Act in balance. More needs to be done to balance the advantages and disadvantages of flexibility, because there is now an unfair distribution between those who enjoy the benefits and those who pay the price. If we do that with each other, we have not solved all the problems identified by the SCP, but we are taking an important step in doing so. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u36	Thank you, Mr. Heerma. Then there are some interruptions. Mr. Smeulders of GroenLinks, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u37	He was the fastest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u38	I was the closest, too, so that was easy. Could you mention other measures, or do you actually think that the cabinet is doing enough to deal with the disturbing analysis you are making?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u39	He's a cyclist, isn't he?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u40	I share Mr Heerma's analysis. I think it's very similar to mine. In the end, he mentions the Labour Market Act in balance. That's what we're gonna talk about next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u41	I actually have three answers to that. Yes, I think the Cabinet does a lot for that and I think that the Labour Market Act is a very important step for us as labour market spokesmen, as spokesmen of social affairs. But we have just heard in the debate that more needs to be done. The WAB does not regulate how we can bring more balance to the bottom of thezzp market, but that's what the cabinet is working on right now. That's the first answer. The second answer is as follows. I would like to refer again to the small debate between Mr Van Weyenberg and Mrs Van Brenn. The government often intends to regulate things that may turn out to be very different in practice. Finally, the third answer: the government cannot do it alone. People say it's really bad that this happens and that the government lets it happen, but there's also a deeper societal analysis behind it. If the approach is "every man for himself and the State for all of us" and if, therefore, anything that is not prohibited by law, then whatever a government does, a new mockery will always be devised which the law does not yet see. My party also has Appèl's A in its name. There is also a piece of appèl, as I read the piece of the SCP. It is not just about what it says, it is also about the question: what is the moral in society that cannot only be enforced by law? I can see those three layers in here. But it starts with: yes, I think we are doing a lot, especially in the labour market, to take those steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u42	That is a good answer from Mr Heerma. He says: I think the cabinet does a lot. I said, do you think the cabinet is doing enough? Let me ask you something else. Suppose you could ask one more thing from the cabinet to reduce the gaps that are getting bigger. What would that be?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u43	Then you come to the hard effect of thezzp-measures. We're gonna discuss the WAB. I also know that there are elements that you are very enthusiastic about, about which you have even submitted own-initiative papers, and that there are elements that you are very critical about. We can have the debate on this with each other. As far as direction is concerned, I think there should be a similar line. But with thezzp measures there are also a lot of bumps. But if we really want to do something to bridge the gap between flex and solid, if we want to narrow the gap between winners and losers, something will have to happen there. I think that the concrete steps to actually achieve this are very important. At the WAB you have to deal with intention and effect; atzzp there will really have to be that effect next to the intention. To prevent waterbed effects, this cannot be pushed too far back.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u44	May I also ask Mr Heerma to reflect on the increase in the number of working poor? That's 320,000 by now. There's been a doubling. The people who spoke in Pauw's broadcast suffered a lot from the surcharges. We were just talking about it. You can totally trample that system, and I'm okay with reviewing that. But one guy said, "If I work for a month, I'll have to pay back all the fees for a year." Shouldn't you be trying to tackle this problem and see if you can pay out those supplements a month?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u45	Mr Van Dijk asks quite a lot, but he also asks quite a lot of important questions. I'm gonna try to do justice to all the parts of his question. If I don't do that right, he'll have to come back to that. In general terms, I think we see the problem of the working poor fairly widely in this committee. I would like to congratulate Mr Van Dijk. I think he was the first to table a motion on this matter following a report by the ESC. That motion didn't make it, partly because my party voted against it, because there were parts in it that I thought were: for me, this doesn't touch the heart of the report. It was not finished with that, however. Several groups have continued to think about it. They thought: we need something with this, because this is a growing problem. That is why my colleague Peters, together with Mrs Van Brenn, tabled a motion during the last discussion of the Social Affairs budget, which asked the cabinet to ask the ESC to investigate this further, alongside those stacking jobs, which already contain part of this problem. How is this possible and what else can we do about it? In addition, there is an initiative by your last name colleague Gijs van Dijk to organise a hearing in committee. There is also broad support for this. So yes, my party also sees this problem and steps have already been taken to do something about it. For the surcharges there was also a small debate on the question of the possibility of reducing these problems. We all know how complicated we have made the country and the government, that sometimes adapting something in itself is causing new problems. But this also applies to the problem of supplements, whether it pays to go to work. The word "security" must be given to GroenLinks and the PvdA. Isn't there going to be so much uncertainty going to work that you don't have to risk that? So that's what you see in the municipal execution experiments that are now being done to see if we can handle this smarter. Mr Peters is already very much in favour of looking along that line in discussions with the Secretary of State to see if these problems can be overcome. I'm forgetting the monthly apology. You did ask a lot of questions, didn't you? Frankly, I cannot see at the moment whether this is a solution and whether it is causing new problems. So I'd really like to leave that question to Mr Koolmees. I cannot at this time see from my position whether your suggestion is the one or a solution there and whether it is not, as I have just said, with government intentions and practice, which sometimes differ. I'm curious to hear the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u46	The Minister will have the floor later, but we will now listen to Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u47	I thought it was a good slip.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u48	With the Secretary of State are the debates on the Participation Act. If I have been unclear about this, Mr Van Dijk and my colleague Peters have many debates on the Participation Act and they are with the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u49	We are going to listen to Mr Van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u50	In my opinion, you need to distinguish between long-term measures and short-term measures, because these surcharges raise a lot of discussion. Mr Heerma rightly says: we are going to organise a hearing on this matter and so on. But I think you should also look at the short term. It has become very clear how painful it is at present for the working arms of this moment. They say that they currently suffer a lot from the surcharge system because they are only settled per year. Mr Heerma wishes to put that question to the Minister. I'd be fine with that. I think it would be very good if we, as a Chamber, could then see if we could put forward a proposal to deal with this problem in the short term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u51	Mr Heerma, a short comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u52	The task we have here is always very complicated because you want to give the long-term answers as soon as possible. That is the real dilemma of Mr Van Dijk. I think we have all tabled a motion or an amendment which we thought was 'here we are giving a short blow' and then, when the results came, we had to say that was not the intention. That's exactly what the discussion debate on LIV was about. So it is very good to think about what measures you are taking as soon as possible, not only in the short term but also in the long term, to have the effects you want to achieve.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u53	A word about the concern of Mr Heerma and the CDA that we share about the cement in society, that differences are becoming large, that it is being designed much more individually. Isn't that one of the solutions to work properly on the quality of life for everyone? Which allows you to look around you more, giving you more perspective?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u54	I think there is also a difference here between social democracy and a Christian Democrat party like the CDA, because that works on it. There was my reference to the apple just as much as I think it cannot come from the government alone. Because not only does it apply: if everything that is not explicitly prohibited by law, there are always constructions that the government is chasing after. So there must also be an ethical morality in acting alongside a legal morale, because every year we find three new guile structures, on the labour market alone, and then we can just do it according to the rules. So that's my first answer. So that must really come from society itself. Yeah, but the government can't do that alone. That's the second risk. If the government micromanages that, more people get entangled. They are often those people who were on that Pauw broadcast that Mr Van Dijk was just talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u55	I think I broadly agree with Mr Heerma, because ultimately it is about people having to do it themselves, and preferably with each other. We'd like them to look back at each other. But the moment you have an uncertain basis, that you don't know if you still have your money next month and you're in a sham construction yourself, you're looking for more quality of life, that base, so you can look around your neighborhood again. I think that's the essence. This has to come from people themselves, but it is a task of the government to have that basis on order.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u56	Yes. I do not entirely disagree with Mr Van Dijk. Mr Smeulders is more right in this respect than Mr Van Dijk, who says that the quality of life in the Netherlands is very high. It's increased considerably in 25 years. At the same time, we see growing gaps between high- and low-skilled people, between people with opportunities and people without opportunities, which the SCP also explicitly warns about. Then it's not about the haves and the portot, it's about the cans and the cannots. That is what Mr Putters is always talking about. Yeah, the government has a responsibility in that. That's why I just gave that The government needs to check whether there are too many opportunities to push people out of the workforce at the bottom, to reduce the risks and costs of flexibility for them and to enjoy the benefits as smart entrepreneurs themselves. But the government can't do that alone. We can find it a disgrace that this happens, but if we go to those companies when we need a meal or when a package has to be delivered, massively, all of them, then there will be a market for it. There are many examples of this. So besides that, there's a moral appeal to society. The government can't do it alone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u57	Thank you, Mr. Heerma. Then I invite Mrs Van Brenk from 50PLUS to come to the chair.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In addition to good news, the social state of the Netherlands contains a heartfelt warning to this cabinet. There are persistent differences between groups that can split society and undermine trust. Lower-educated people, lower-income people, elderly people with AOW and a small pension and people with a migration background are abandoned by this cabinet. Last Friday I spoke to many seniors in Veldhoven at the Seniors Expo. They felt betrayed by three successive Rutte Cabinets. They feel that every day in their wallet. It is remarkable that the social state of the Netherlands says so little about the plight of many elderly people. The government's reaction to the report also makes little sense to the significant purchasing power and indexing disadvantage of many pensioners. Once again, there is a risk of pension reductions for workers and pensioners, but there is virtually nothing to the contrary. Where are the actions of this cabinet? The Labour Market Balance Act, according to 50PLUS, will not increase the chances of full-time and well-paid work and livelihood security for people enough. Flex addiction - we heard the word just now - and competition on labour costs are not consistently broken. We want policies that focus more on the labour market position of people with a migration background and older people. I would like to hear the Minister's views on this. What 50PLUS really lacks in the cabinet's approach is fundamental attention to the question of whether social minimum income benefits still satisfy people's needs to function fully and keep them out of debt. I'd also like a reaction to that. 15% of the population suffers from a crippling accumulation of unemployment, income, health and social isolation problems. More and more people are facing insecure work, including hundreds of thousands of working poor; we have heard it on a regular basis. They represent a total of one third of the population. A third! How does the Cabinet ensure that they do not sink into the bottom? Part of this iszzp'er. They cannot afford disability insurance or pension, let alone save. What can this part of our population expect from this government? I'd like a response. And why not increase direct support for those working poor instead of subsidising entrepreneurs with the low-income advantage? Shouldn't we give them that money? Care has 50PLUS on the minimum employment protection for workers. The payroll, call, zero hours, contracting or whatever the flexibility is called, workers draw the short straw. One construction is even cheaper than the other because no pension or collective wage has to be paid. What's the government's answer? We take some hope from the fact that the Commission is going to look at the suggestion of the Council of State to create a single regime for all workers for which the legislator defines a hard minimum level of protection. To sum up and in the core: there are limits to throwing people back to self-reliance, whether it's work or care. 50PLUS believes it is high time that this cabinet was able to link the opportunities offered to people and the appeal to their own responsibility, however necessary, with a stronger social face and more attention for those who simply cannot come along. Only then will Dutch society really be able to become stronger, closer and more balanced.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u59	Thank you, Mrs Van Brenk. I call Mr Edgar Mulder of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u60	Mr. Chairman. There are people who need or use reports to find out what's going on in their own country. The PVV prefers to look at reality. I'll tell you what the social state of the Netherlands is. It's not good. A large group of working poor, households that can no longer live on one income, many families that no longer have savings, growing uncertainty about the future, no job security and more food banks. So this report is just a paper reality, because the real world looks very different. In 2017, the purchasing power of half the Dutch was reduced. 2018 was not much better and in 2019 we mainly have higher costs. We can already pay €290 more for energy this year and then the bills for the 600 climate action still have to come. In practice, ordinary Dutch people do not notice that things are going well. Today we heard that pensions are worth less and there are still discounts coming. What do you mean you're okay? Yesterday, the Central Statistical Office announced that consumer confidence has fallen for six months in a row. Quote: "In the first month of this year, there was the biggest drop in consumer confidence in more than seven years." The last time the Netherlands was so negative was at the bottom of the crisis. People aren't crazy. A large part of the Dutch population is in severe weather due to the disappointing purchasing power. And that as the economy spins like a tierelier and we have billions on the shelf of Rutte lying in surplus. But it prefers to give it to Africa and the multinationals. What do you mean you're okay? Then I haven't talked about the problems with Islam or all the problems of mass immigration. It is significant that in this report the word "Islamic" does not occur once. The Netherlands, 2019 and not once the word "islam." The social state of the Netherlands is not good. It's time for change and it's time for elections.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u61	Thank you, Mr. Mulder. I call Mr Wiersma of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u62	Mr. Chairman. "The Land that takes care of everyone. Not a dog who knows about a gutter. With nassiballs in the wall. And none who eats dry bread." It was my first CD: 15 million people. I guess I was nine years old and it's still one of those songs you say: maybe there isn't a better country to live in. I had to think about that in the preparation of this debate. A mega-wide debate: far too little time and no doubt impossible questions for the Minister. Question 1 has already been asked by several Members and it cannot be different from: how can we give this annual report a good place on the agenda of the Chamber? Mr. Chairman. The SCP shows three things. One. Just a positive image. The Netherlands is in good shape. We have overcome the crisis and the quality of life has improved in many areas for many people. Let us be honest: we have achieved this together, by putting our hands together, even in very difficult years. We should be really proud of that and also think about it. Two. And then, of course, we move on quickly: it's not finished. Even if you build on a good basis, there are hidden flaws. A group of 700,000 people experience a build-up of problems. They juggle between their families, between fixed burdens and the rat race of the labour market. Then life feels like a whirlpool, where you can't get any more solid ground under your feet. Three. As a result, we see dividing lines growing, between people who just manage to do it all and people for whom it is sometimes really spiced up. I am pleased that the cabinet is working on this so that everyone can participate and that important permanent job will be within reach again. The cabinet does this by taking care of low costs and by ensuring that work pays, that retraining to other jobs is available when it is inconvenient and that the personal guidance of the UWV is again possible. But there's really more to it than that. I would like to hear the Minister's approach on two main points. One. the tax burden on labour, at work, is high and poverty falls. A welfare mother with two children must earn more than a moral income to just keep a few tens. An installer earning €2,500 gross costs his employer €3,200, but gets €1,890. 41% just goes off. Even more hours of work hardly pays. In some cases, more than 50% of what's left goes off. Just when we need everyone on the labour market, this is the question we are asking: how do we make it financially attractive to work more? Two. Are we creative enough to help people get back to work? More than a million people are looking for more work. Does the Minister see room to seduce employers more to run faster for those people who are still on the sidelines? Can we use existing instruments smarter? We have no-risk policies and retraining money. Can we do that even more targeted than we do now? Mr. Chairman. I've saved my biggest concern for the end. The SCP also says that the differences between groups are widening, because people encounter each other less easily. We also live in bubbles. What I'm afraid of is that we've paid off our responsibility to grab people when it's upsetting and helping, through the anonymous government: "I paid for it, didn't I? Good luck with that." Our social system has this risk. Then the government becomes the solution for the society we don't want to be. What great challenges and opportunities does the Minister see for the coming years to break these bubbles? That's a big question, I realize. Mr President, I will come to the end, if I may.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u63	Yes, I'd like you to finish your speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u64	I'll end up with a quote. "In conclusion, we believe that the Netherlands has a good starting position, but that we also face major challenges. In order to respond positively to the future, we need to reform." Wise words from the then spokesperson of the D66 Group at the last debate we held in this Chamber on the social state. That was in 2011, and that was a long time ago. You can go a long way with it, prove this minister, but you can be wrong, I say right away. Because the last sentence was: "Unfortunately, this cabinet is taking a step backwards rather than forward." I challenge the Minister to make a lasting end of this last sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u65	Thank you. Mr Mulder has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u66	Could the VVD explain, if there are another million unemployed in the Netherlands as Mr Wiersma just said, why the VVD is in favour of bringing 100,000 new people to the Netherlands every year?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u67	Mr Mulder is now acting as if we are opposed to each other in this matter, while together we see the threat that exists if we want to deal with a lot of people here in the Netherlands. That has its limits, I think we agree. I believe that we are both the most vocal about this in this Chamber, and we are also trying to do everything we can to protect and improve everything we have built up here, precisely to help all those people who work hard here for their income, for their livelihoods. So I think he's trying to say something that we don't disagree about right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u68	There are limits and they have to be closed, but the problem is that the VVD doesn't. And then again the question: why are you in favour of bringing in 100,000 people a year if we ourselves still have so many problems in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u69	If Mr Mulder means to say "we're putting a fence around the Netherlands, we're going to a nextit and we're getting the same crazy states as the Brexit," we disagree with him. That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u70	Then we will listen to Mr Kuzu of DENK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u71	I would like to ask the spokesperson of the VVD what this threat by people is, those refugees who have to leave their homes, who are not safe in their own country, who are looking for a better future, who are being persecuted politically or persecuted because of their orientation. What's the threat from these people when they come here? 'Cause you were talking about threats from people coming here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u72	No, Mr. Chairman, let me get that straight. I am flying it from the social state, and I hope Mr Kuzu does not blame me. I'm not a spokesperson for integration, but I'm a spokesperson for the labour market. I see there's gonna be bigger gaps. That's what the SCP says. You are right: the gap between people with a migration background and people without a migration background. There we see a dividing line, but we also see people saying: I see more tension there. I think we should be honest with each other about the fact that there are tensions. Neighborhoods have sometimes become more diverse and that is good, but sometimes it has also led to neighborhoods being more unrecognizable and people feeling more unsafe there. Many different reasons play a role in this. It's called the SCP, too. That's what I'm worried about, and that's what I've been trying to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u73	Well, then I did misunderstand. I will therefore look back and read back in the Acts what the VVD spokesperson said in response to the PVV's question, namely that there are threats from outside. Anyway, he's backing out, and that's pretty good. We're talking about tensions in society. The statistics indicate that people are concerned about these tensions in society, while a lot of people do not experience that in their immediate environment. Only a small part of it experiences that in its immediate vicinity, to be precise 26%. I would like to ask the spokesperson of the VVD where these tensions come from, according to the VVD, and to reflect on the role of the VVD in the past few years when it comes to cabinet policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u74	I have been able to talk about this report and this question for a very long time, but this question makes that temptation even greater.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u75	For you too, the answers must be short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u76	Oh, is that so? Okay. That is why I am so pleased that we are having this debate on not one subject, but in a broad perspective, that the difference is widening between people where you see a accumulation of things, things that lead to less certainty. For example, when it comes to work, you see that the labour market is internationalising. That offers opportunities for some people, but other people cost their jobs. Technology is beautiful, of course, but it could cost you your job. If you have a lower education, you also have a less life expectancy, you run more health risks, you are often just in that flexible and sometimes uncertain contract, which adds up to more uncertainty. Just that group is sometimes happy that their own neighborhood gets more diverse, but sometimes they are also worried about that. And that's exactly the tension we're lifting together here. We say we're worried about that group. I also mention those 700,000 people who experience that accumulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u77	Thank you, Mr. Wiersma. Mr Gijs van Dijk also has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u78	Mr Wiersma rightly refers to this uncertainty for those hundreds of thousands of people, and he is also concerned about it. Worrying is one thing, but solving is two. How does Mr Wiersma see the solutions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u79	I just mentioned two solutions in the time we had. We believe that working makes you happy. I think we share that. Working gives social contacts. Working allows you to take care of yourself and your family. However, we still see too often that working does not pay enough and that more work does not pay. If we really do that, we can also make work attractive to the people who are still on the sidelines. In my opinion, that is the best basis for participation in society. More than a million people are now on the sidelines and, of course, we have a few more people who are on the sidelines and who are also on the sidelines, for whatever reason. And of course that's not enough. The second point I mentioned was: how can we better help the people who are having a hard time taking that step back to work and who are already failing? I am asking for new ways, creative ways, for example, to use existing instruments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u80	I think we should approach each other. But then Mr Wiersma also says in his contribution that this anonymous government is one of the problems, when I see that that government can change the political things that allow us to improve that basis for a lot of people. Does Mr Wiersma see that too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u81	Yeah, sure. In fact, we do. We see that the collective burden on workers is higher than, for example, they were before 2008. A VVD is not always proud of this, but we invest in this cabinet period, but also in the previous, very much in, for example, good education, more security, better care. You know that, too. In my opinion, these are investments made by the government, and we are also showing that that government has an important role to play. But I didn't warn you for nothing. I'm afraid if you leave everything to the government, we won't look back at each other and look away. Then you're sitting at home with your benefit behind a curtain and nobody cares, because society thinks: we bought it off through the government, good luck with it. The neighbor won't help you anymore. I can see that, too. And I want us to try to shape that movement, where we help each other together and we grab each other, again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u82	I hear a nice list of problems, but I do not hear any solutions at all. I'd like to continue on that migration. I am referring not so much to political refugees, but more to economic migrants, to labour migration. This is, of course, also a major phenomenon within Europe. There are now 400,000 migrant workers from Eastern Europe working in the Netherlands. Mr Wiersma now notes that there are tensions between population groups and that we may need to think more carefully about this. But what's he gonna do about it? Does he also see that all this labour migration is very nice for companies, because it can keep wages low, but that therefore works disruptively for society? What's he gonna do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u83	Mr. Van Dijk probably heard that I asked the minister if we could be more creative to actually ask employers to just look at our own people first. Because you can see, of course, that employers are also tempted to look across the border. I am also not blind to the fact that one in five entrepreneurs is already saying that they cannot manage their production because of the shortage of staff. So if you want companies to be able to function a bit here and get their production around, you can't get away from hiring migrant workers for that. But I also see that we have a lot of people standing by the side here. And that doesn't feel right. I want us to help these people, and I think we should do more. That is why, in recent years, we have also presented a great many measures to deal with labour shortages here. We also gave those plans to the Minister. And I'm asking him now whether we can't be a little more creative about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u84	I'll see an opening there. If you would ask the Minister to look more closely at the people who do not have a job here in the Netherlands, I very much agree with you. But if you're serious about that, you'll have to deliver butter to the fish. At the moment, there is simply free movement of workers within the European Union. There are therefore no limits to the import of migrant workers from Poland, for example. The SP says: that's what you should regulate. You should see where it's really necessary before you go into unlimited influx. Do you agree that we should look at regulating our labour market when it comes to labour migration?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u85	I think there are a lot of people at home now who have sometimes sent letters after letters. They're probably 500 letters away. Sometimes I even get e-mails from people who have sent 1,000 letters. They're incredibly frustrated that they can't get in between them. I want us to help them. I think it starts there, so with municipalities that may sometimes be able to do more. Sometimes training money is also needed. You also know that we have a proposal to make the WW more flexible so that you can bring forward some of that education and spend it on finding that job. If that work is there, I also think that there should not always be excuses for not accepting it. Are you willing to be sharp with me there, too? If there is a chance and an employer wants to offer someone who is in that prison with the municipality or the UWV, then we also have to make sure that they do so and can not easily say: this is not the case with me. It's in that equal movement. Then I can also say to employers: "You also have an effort obligation. Here's someone who wants to; come on, go for it. And yes, first take a look at our own people, please."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u86	Mr. Kuzu, a new point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u87	That's right, Mr. Chairman. I wanted to come back to the point of uncertainty and the point made by Mr Wiersma about working poor. I find it striking that the VVD sits here whining about working arms. I had asked him if he wanted to reflect on his own policies in recent years. Let me mention Rutte I: the VAT increase from 19% to 21%. How did that work out for those working arms? I call Rutte II: the social security which is further undressed, the pension agreement that has gone on the shovel and which it is not going to come from. Rutte III: the VAT increase on primary needs such as butter, cheese, eggs, bread from 6% to 9%. What is the VVD policy and how has it worked out for those working poor is my very specific question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u88	It's very broad and very concrete at the end, but I'm going to do my best to answer it. You also give me a great deal of credit for what we all have on our consciences, but I am going to do my best. With me, the thing about those workers is that eventually, if you work for it or work for it, you're gonna have something left in your wallet and that's gonna be more. I mentioned that installer in my contribution. It earns €2,500 gross. An employer is going to pay €3,200 for that and he ultimately has something of €2,400 left. What if that installer works a little bit more and gets a raise, $100? Then we see in the current situation that the employer pays €136. What does he end up getting on his tab? Approximately €50 net extra. So over 60% is that wedge, as it's called. The difference between gross and net is just very big. I think that a blockage for a lot of people to get motivated to do more and that we should do more with each other. I see the Cabinet does a lot. We're going to relieve billions of burdens. People are also gonna have more left in their wallets. And yes, the burdens on labor go down. We're very happy about that, but we're not there yet. These are examples of which we say: you need to put more gas on them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u89	Finally, Mr Kuzu.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u90	The spokesperson of the VVD simply needs a lot of words to hide where one's own failure is. On the one hand, the story of the VVD is: people need to earn more, we need to reduce that wedge and we need to make sure that people are left with more. But how can you make sure that people are going to have more left if you simply increase VAT and the groceries in the supermarket just become more expensive? It's a pocket pocket, I say to Mr Wiersma. If you make sure that that kind of primary business increases the tax, then you may need whole stories and very comprehensive answers to hide your own policy, while it's actually very simple: cancel the VAT increase and make sure that people have more left in the wallet. That's what people noticed right from January 1st, and not all those lovely stories you've been keeping here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u91	Mr. Wiersma, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u92	I tried to give a good answer to Mr Kuzu, but that is not entirely appreciated. I don't mind at all. If you also look at the recent figures on Friday they came out again.Of the 100 people you see on the street, just 96 are ahead of you. The average increase is really very large. A lot of people notice that in the wallet; you can also see that on your paycheck. Of course, things are getting more expensive. That's what you see when you're in the grocery store. But if you're in the supermarket now, compared to a year ago, there's more coming out of the ATM. I'm glad. I'm proud of that. Can things be better? Yes. Am I looking away from that? No. Do I radicalize and say that everything is wrong? No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u93	Thank you, Mr. Wiersma. Then we've come to the end of the first term. I ask the Minister if it will be enough if we suspend until 11.50 a.m. Can you get out of your way with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u94	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u95	Then that's what we'll do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u96	We are now going to listen to the Minister's response. I would like to ask the Minister if he can indicate in a moment how he will classify the reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I shall begin with a very brief general introduction. Then I'll go into the chapter for good work. In addition, I discuss the working poor. Then there is a block of wages, labour income ratio and income and wealth inequality. Then a block of chance of influence follows, and last but not least the other block. I will end with a response to a quote from myself from 2011, for Mr Wiersma. Mr. Chairman. The social state of the Netherlands is a very bulky and impressive report. I agree with all the speakers that this issue deserves particular attention. It is also of particular interest to me. It's about opportunities for all Dutch people. The risk of this debate, with four minutes' speaking time, is that your Chamber is asking a lot of questions. I can't possibly answer that. That's my warning in advance. But I'm still gonna do my best to do you all justice. I repeat what many speakers have said today: we have done well in the Netherlands. This is also the conclusion of the SCP in the investigation. Over the last 25 years we have improved in almost all respects in the Netherlands: life expectancy, health, we deserve more, crime is falling and our level of education is rising. The list goes on and on. We even go on vacation more often. So we have a lot to be proud of in the Netherlands, but that doesn't mean we're already there. You have actually said all this in your contribution to the first term. Because all the good news doesn't apply to everyone. They are averages in the Netherlands. There are certainly gaps and dividing lines in society. Major developments such as globalisation, technological progress and flexibilisation affect everyone, but they do not affect everyone in the same way. There are winners and there are losers. What makes the current situation special is what Mr Heerma said in his contribution is that these different developments often know the same winners and the same losers. They are, as it were, stacking the different developments together. This is best illustrated by what is happening on the extremes. At one extreme are those who benefit from an international job market, often the same people who can benefit from the opportunities of technology but also from higher life expectancy, higher income and less job insecurity. At the other extreme, people who lose their jobs because of technological progress or international trade, are predominantly the same people who are finding it harder to get a new fixed contract, who have greater health risks and who have fewer buffers to cope with setbacks. I mentioned this in my letter of summer "a sum of risks in some parts of society and a sum of opportunities in other parts of society." No wonder there are Dutch people who get angry with all those happy faces on TV. This cabinet wants a Netherlands in which everyone has a fair and real chance to make some of their lives, regardless of their gender, colour or religion. It is our responsibility to ensure that everyone in our society can continue to participate in that changing world. We also have plans for this, many plans: plans to invest in education, plans to bring good work back into everyone's reach, plans to direct more people about their own environment. I would like to talk about this, to also explain what those plans are for the cabinet. In my letter, I divided the answers into three kinds of opportunities. Firstly, that is the opportunity to develop yourself, secondly, the chance of a good job and thirdly, the chance of influencing your own environment, or control, as Mr Smeulders called it. I am also trying to keep that three-part in answering your questions. More generally, I think Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Gijs van Dijk have said: we are in a favourable situation, why is there no more investment? The figures show that the cabinet invests an additional EUR 14.5 billion in this cabinet period, indeed also in education, health care and defence. I would also like to mention the figures for the development of the burden of the coalition agreement. A distinction is often made between people and companies. 5.2 billion is being given relief for people and 1.2 billion on balance for businesses. These figures are often not mentioned. I therefore think it would be useful for me to bring them to the attention of the House again today. At the same time, we have a responsibility for sound public finances in the longer term. After the crisis of recent years, it is very wise to bring down our state debt, to be prepared for another crisis and to have buffers to deal with any setbacks. Mr President, this is an introduction. I'm trying very briefly to explore the opportunities to develop yourself. Why? Because that is mainly in the policy area of my colleagues. I shall therefore dwell longer on the labour market and the working poor and a little less on development. But I think it is very important to consider this in the context of the social state, because everyone should have the chance to get off to a good start. Everyone must also be given the opportunity to continue to develop during working life and, for example, to choose a different career if their job disappears, for example through technological development, and yet they still have to work for another 20 years. What instruments do we have to allow people to move from one sector to another? That is the approach of lifelong learning and developing yourself. Development is not only about work but also about other skills you need to make some of your life. That goes from health skills to low-literacy and from media wisdom to dealing with our country's culture. A great deal is happening on all these points. My colleagues in the cabinet, particularly those from Education, Mr Slob and Mrs Van Engelshoven, can tell you that there is a lot of investment in combating educational disadvantage, that it will be easier to flow through and stack within education, and that pre-school education will also be expanded. Colleagues from VWS, Mr Bruins and Mr De Jonge, are working on improving health skills. Mr Blokhuis, the Secretary of State, is talking about the prevention agreement: how do we reduce the difference in people's health? My own department, the Secretary of State, is also working very hard on the broad approach to debt. It is also about the debts of people and the working poor......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... We encourage lifelong development, including in the approach together with social partners. Another point is integration policy. There too, the situation has been too long that people had to wait a long time for them to have a chance to learn the language and participate actively in Dutch society. We need to take the steps there to give people who are new to the Netherlands opportunities to participate. This includes something that you expect people to commit themselves to, but you have to give people the opportunity to earn their position in society. Mr. Chairman. I now turn to the subject that most of the questions have been asked about in the debate: labour market and work. This also makes sense in a debate with the Social Affairs and Employment spokesmen. I'll start with a general line. The social state of the Netherlands shows that the labour market is in good shape. It attracts after the crisis, but anyone who looks beyond the economic cycle also sees real structural changes in the labour market. I think that is what Mr Smeulders said in his speech. We are talking about globalisation, technological progress and flexibilisation. Some groups benefit from this, as I said in my introduction, but others have negative consequences. I want everyone, despite the changes that are taking place in part worldwide and can't be stopped; you can't put a stop to it, you can't keep up with it, you can have a good job and you can make a living through work, including that of your children. As a cabinet, we are therefore focusing on more opportunities for security, on equal opportunities for Dutch people with and without migration backgrounds, Mrs Van Brenk and Mr Kuzu have asked a fair question about this and on equal opportunities for men and women. I would like to begin, very briefly, with the plans for restoring the balance of the labour market: the SAB. Next week, we'll have the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u98	A question from Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u99	The Minister rightly points to the development that we are in: robotisation and digitisation. That is what we are dealing with, but they have opportunities and threats. As a committee on Social Affairs, too, we are working on this ourselves and we would like to investigate it further ourselves. Is the Minister with the Cabinet able to see the opportunities and threats and better map them?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u100	Yeah, there are opportunities and threats. As I said in my introduction, they are also divided differently in Dutch society. They also lead to new questions. Think about the discussion about the platform economy. Recently, we sent a report from SEO about this to the Chamber, which states what these developments are. We have also asked the Economic and Social Committee, as I see it, to reflect on Mr Gijs van Dijk's motion. On the analytical side, we describe what is happening and where the risks and opportunities are at stake, but we are also working on the preventive side to think about how we are dealing with them as legislators. Think, for example, of thezzp dossier, on which we agreed in the government agreement that we want more protection for the bottom of thezzp market, the people with lower incomes, who are more vulnerable in the labour market. So both on the analytical side and on the preventive side, the cabinet comes up with measures in this regard. What I always think is important is that if we focus too much on the threats, there's a risk that you'll miss the odds. There are also many beautiful developments that can bring with them a lot of prosperity and well-being. We shouldn't throw away the baby with the bath water too soon.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u101	I think it's good to work on that base. We don't know exactly what's going to happen, but we do need a basis for action. I think it could be the government that sees jobs disappear in the banking sector, but that, for example, there are a lot of new jobs in the whole sustainable sector that is now being created. Sectors find it difficult to link that up. How does the Minister see this task?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u102	This is a very good example. Very specific. If you look at a lifetime of developing, that has been a long discussion within sectors. There are, for example, R&D funds, development funds that are filled at sectoral level by employers, who make a contribution to a training fund in the sector. You have recently seen that these R&D funds work much more together, especially in order to get sectors of mobility. Indeed, if you have a banking sector in which a lot of people lose their jobs because of digitisation or technological development, how do you ensure that you can retrain and train people and help them find a job in another sector? One of the best examples you have been dealing with here for a long time is the graphic media sector, as Mr Gijs van Dijk knows from his previous career as a trade unionist. There is a real commitment to preventive training to guide people to another sector. I think we are on the verge of a much broader development. This also fits in with government policy, for example, to set up such a digital learning account and to go more to individual training ads to give people more direction about their own career, but to use the knowledge and infrastructure of sectors to achieve this. 'Cause it takes a lot to start thinking like that. Mr Wiersma looks right, because we have recently had a lot of these debates with your colleague Mrs van den Hul on lifelong development. Many spokesmen have already said in the first term that we will soon be dealing with the Labour Market Act in balance. In doing so, as a cabinet, we want to restore the balance between fixed and flexible contracts. In her introduction, Mrs Van Brenk asked what the cabinet does, for example, in areas such as payroll, appeal and flex. It is precisely in the Labour Market Balance Act that concrete measures are proposed to increase this protection. There is a very separate piece of legislation on payroll to give people who are in a payroll the same terms of employment as people who work in the company and who are also entitled to a pension. In the Labour Market Act in balance there is also additional protection for people who depend on call contracts. This concerns both short-term predictability and the obligation for the employer to make a job offer after 12 months. The premium differentiation between fixed and flex contracts included in the Labour Market Act is, of course, a financial incentive for employers to offer more fixed contracts. So I was a little surprised that Mrs Van Brenk asked these questions, whereas these points will be so prominent in the Labour Market Act next week. I have also looked closely at, for example, the initiative paper of the SP, GroenLinks and the Labour Party on premium differentiation, but also at the initiative law on payroll. They are also incorporated into the Labour Market in Balance Act, which is really meant to give flexibility greater security. A very important part of this is also the transition fee from day one. Now people only get a two-year job, so if they have a two-year contract, they are entitled to a dismissal allowance, which is now called "transition allowance." Now, with this law, we're gonna make sure that happens from day one. People who depend on a flex contract then build up that fee from day one. These are all elements which respond to Mrs Van Brenk's questions and which can be dealt with next week in the legal process. I look forward to discussing it with you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u103	I am also looking forward to next week, because then I have at least 20 minutes to talk about it properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u104	Yeah, exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u105	It was about security and uncertainty. In particular, I have indicated all these points in order to show that employers are trying to do it as cheaply as possible. My question was therefore whether we could give those LIV funds to employees. But the essence for 50PLUS was that there are certain proposals but that the uncertainty lies with the people. If you now state that the employer will have to make an offer on the call force, why not make it easier by saying that this should simply be done automatically? Because now the question is whether the employer is going to do this and whether the employee is so strong that he can demand it. 'Cause a call force hasn't just been called up anymore either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u106	I understand this question. I think it is also really a search for what effective measures are in terms of the balance between fixed and flex, which is really far apart in the Netherlands. "Fast" is relatively well protected and is also linked to many obligations on the employers' side, e.g. two years' pay for illness. This leads to employers becoming increasingly reluctant to offer fixed contracts. It is precisely on these fixed contracts that there are all kinds of securities, not only labour security, but also, for example, the possibility of obtaining a mortgage, as someone indicated in the first term. At the same time, you can see that the flex side has much less protection and is much cheaper. With this law, we try to narrow the gap between fixed and flex, bring them closer together, but there is always a trade-out, including in the labour market. One of the reasons why we have low unemployment and such high participation in the Netherlands is that we also give many people the opportunity to join the labour market. People have a stepping stone to a permanent job through flexwork. In the past temporary work was known for this role, that people were first hired temporarily and then got a permanent job. This dividing line on the labour market has become much tougher in recent years, perhaps over the last ten years. With this law, we are trying to straighten that out and make that dividing line less harsh in order to bring that fixed contract back into reach. But Mrs Van Brenk is right, it is constantly searching for measure and for what is effective. We have, of course, had a lot of debates on this and we will do so again next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u107	There is one concern, which I think we are going to discuss in greater detail next week, namely that more and more people are being pushed away. They are pushed towards compulsory false self-employment/zzp and we see that a very large proportion of the poor fall into that category ofzzp, the people who are not insured, do not build up pensions and so on. That's the category of the poor of the future. Does the Minister see that problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u108	I have two comments to make on this question from Mrs Van Brenn. The first is that thezzp'er doesn't exist. This is one of the discussions we need to have better in this house. Mrs Van Brenk is right to say that some of thezzp'ers work particularly at the bottom of the monopsonist labour market with a few questions and little negotiating power, where some false self-employment also emerges. At the same time, there is also a very large group of self-employed people who can take good care of themselves and are very happy with the freedom they have. In any case, it will help this debate if we introduce this layering into thezzp debate. That's one. Two. I fully acknowledge that there is a part ofzzp-side that I am concerned about, because there are indeed people not insured and working unprotected. Sometimes they do this voluntarily because it is also quite free, but sometimes forced. In the coalition agreement, we have taken measures to provide more protection and security at the bottom of thezzp market. I sent a letter in November on how this was going to work; it is very complicated. I will come back to that later. I am very motivated to do so and thereby to do justice to the concerns that Mrs Van Brenk rightly raises here. So next week the Labour Market Act in balance and that fits perfectly with this theme of the social state. In addition, I am happy to have reached agreement with the employers on the payment of wages in the event of illness. It's a bit runaway in the violence of the period before Christmas, but this is an important step. On the contrary, you hear from a lot of employers that this uncertainty about the obligation to pay wages means that they do not offer fixed contracts. The combination of the measures, both the Labour Market Act in balance and the payment of wages in case of sickness and the plans for thezzp, are all aimed at the same goal to restore that balance on the labour market in the Netherlands. Together with the colleagues from Education, Emancipation and Finance, Mrs Van Engelshoven and Finance, I also focus on equal employment opportunities for men and women as described in the Emancipation Note sent to your Chamber last spring. One of the measures I would like to mention, for example, is the extension of maternity leave. On 2 January I was allowed to hand out a romper to the first-born child in 2019 in the Maasstad hospital because the father is now on partner's leave. However, I also mention the increase in the childcare allowance as of 1 January 2019 and the fiscal attractiveness of working more hours; I will come back to that in a moment. The Minister of Emancipation, the SZW Secretary of State and myself recently informed the Chamber about the differences between groups of women and the approach for these groups. We do this, among other things, by supporting municipalities to achieve more groups from a distance to the labour market. In addition, this spring we expect the interdepartmental policy research Part-time work. This applies not only to men and women, but also to the working poor from the point of view of: how should we look at the lower working hours of women in the Netherlands in particular, and what policy instruments do we have for this? In other words, I outline a lot of policies, plans and laws that are in the making and which we discuss with your Chamber at various times, but on all these issues the cabinet is taking steps in the right direction. Mr Wiersma asked whether we were creative enough to encourage employers to hire staff. This is also about the unused human resources and the question of whether we can do more. We are, of course, working very hard in the field of the untapped workforce. Secretary of State Van Ark wants to actively guide people at the bottom of the labour market, for example those who are dependent on a benefit from the municipality or the UWV, through a broad offensive to the labour market to increase the chances of a job. We have the LIV and we have measures for specific groups. There are several routes to bring the people who are still in the card boxes of the UWV and the municipalities to the attention of the employers. Mr Wiersma has also drawn attention to this: how do we ensure that job seekers become more visible to employers? From January 1st this year we will invest 35 million in matching at work to bring them together. All in all, there are many policy paths that all aim to activate the people who are still on the side. At the same time, I say to employers, when I am in the country and I speak with them, that they cannot expect the sheep with the five legs to be still in the card boxes of the UWV and that they will also have to invest as an employer in training, retraining or a BBL course, a vocational guidance learning pathway, in order to make people fit for work. I see employers are making that turn slowly. Harrie van de Kraats van AWVN last Saturday in De Telegraaf maybe also sees that employers need to invest much more in lifelong development, in employability and in training to reach other groups and fill the vacancies. Mr Wiersma is ready to make an interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u109	I was just checking to see if this was it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u110	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u111	Then I'd like to give him the opportunity to say a little more about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u112	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u113	Of course, there's a lot going on. It isn't, but I think we have the feeling right now of "how can it be that there are a lot of vacancies and that a lot of people can't get in between?" Can't we be sharper too? I hope the Minister agrees with us. Shouldn't we be doing more when people really want to? That was my question. I would like to mention, for example, the no-risk policies we have. Can we look at these criteria so that we might be able to help other groups? Could we perhaps focus retraining money more on that? If you really want to and you need more, could we do that? I'm just looking for a little more creativity. It is not even a very political question, but really a substantive question. Because it feels really weird that so many people are on the sidelines, when we see the first signs that it might be less. And then it didn't succeed in getting that group, almost a million people, in between. So we don't have to do any more? That was actually the search, and I mentioned some instruments. On the other hand, there are people who don't want to. Shouldn't we be sharper there? In doing so, the Minister referred to what the Secretary of State does. That is good and we should do more, but my question to this minister specifically was: how can we perhaps use the existing instruments more creatively?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u114	That's a fair question. There is also a continuous search within my department: what are new instruments? But also: how effective are the instruments? Indeed, the no-risk policy, the retraining money and the money made available through your Chamber, the 30 million for education, to the UWV. We also see that it is not always used and that it remains in practice. Of course, that cannot be the intention. We are certainly constantly looking for new creative solutions to be able to use it effectively. Soon I will come back to a question from Mr Van Weyenberg, who does not pay attention to the UWV's package leaflet on how to compensate for the costs and subsidies that employers can get if they hire people who are remote from the labour market. These, too, are tools to make the labour market more transparent, in order to better achieve the matching between employer and employee. I am very open to looking at any new creative idea and to test it for effectiveness. That's the challenge we're in right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u115	It is good that the Minister is open to creative ideas. We have also delivered them to the Minister. They haven't all been executed yet. Maybe almost all of them aren't. So there's another chance. I also look forward to the Minister's creativity. I'd give him a chance to do that, but I'd like to challenge him, too. I'm telling you the truth. We have had a state of affairs in the budget on the labour market. I want the Minister to write another update on this and also see what works well and what doesn't. What does he see as his challenges for the coming time? Can he promise to give an update in the spring on the shortage in the labour market? We didn't agree on that very clearly. Then it feels a little "freischwebend" and that doesn't really give comfort. So I am looking for a moment when we are thinking about what we are doing now, where the Chamber also has the opportunity to do a little bit on top of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u116	I'd like to do that. I don't know if spring is the best time. We sent the letter with an update on what has been done during the budgetary procedure. Then it doesn't make much sense to give a new update shortly afterwards. You also need to see what works in practice. Can we come to a comparison, namely that I'm going to think about it before the summer? Is that okay? Mr Wiersma is very active, but we will have more to discuss in the near future: the labour market in balance, thezzp, pensions, integration policy. But Mr Wiersma is right: it is an important subject. You can also see that employers are concerned about job vacancies that cannot be filled. That also has consequences for production. So it's justified. We must learn from the instruments we use. What does work and what doesn't work? That is the risk in this area, not only when it comes to matching, but at all about the effectiveness of labour market instruments. Actually, we don't know enough about that. We must learn from that too. We'll get back to you. Mrs Van Brenk has asked a few specific questions about flex constructions. I've already answered part of it, regarding the payroll and the call. In November, in response to Mr Heerma's questions, I also sent a letter on contracting. There is, of course, a constant risk to the labour market if you make legislation somewhere. Elsewhere, there are new developments in the labour market, because of the creativity of entrepreneurs Mr Wiersma talked about. They find another loophole in the legislation. We also pay attention to this. We have asked the Inspection SZW to look into it and to investigate the phenomena in that area. This question is therefore quite justified. This is partly addressed in the Labour Market Act in balance and partly in enforcement. Fortunately, in the coalition agreement we received EUR 50 million extra for the inspection SZW. 30 million of these go to the theme of fair work and sham constructions. I am proud of that too, because those are really subjects that make people angry about. Mrs Van Brenk and Mr Van Weyenberg have asked specific questions about people with a migration background. We're working on it. This too is a complicated theme. I'm glad you're okay. Unemployment is falling sharply. Employment opportunities for people with a migration background are greatly increasing. You can also see in the figures that things are going really well. The figures on the level of education also show that this is progressing with leaps and bounds. At the same time, it remains a vulnerable group. I think Mr Van Weyenberg said it in his introduction. It is also a group which is often the first to become unemployed when the economic situation changes. We are working on the further integration programme in the labour market, VIA, precisely to identify what works and what does not. In the budget debate, I also showed the progress of this and showed what projects are under way to improve the employment rate and labour market position of Dutch people with a migration background, precisely in order to prevent them from being the first to be on the sidelines at a future downturn. That remains a real risk. A major challenge here is to shape the pilots we do as experimentally as possible, to see what works, and then to do the broader roll-out so that you can also apply it more widely to the labour market. And what I'm very happy about is that the spirit to join is very big. The urgency is also felt by many partners involved. That gives me hope that we can come up with good effective instruments to give this really structural shape. Because if we do not, part of the Netherlands will remain in a vulnerable position, not only in terms of labour market position but also in terms of social status. This also has implications for integration, exclusion and such topics. Mr. Chairman. Then I want to continue with the theme working poor...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u117	But first there is a question from Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u118	I'm really glad we're finally doing this. I have been asking the minister's predecessor and this minister on this issue for a few years now for more information and real action to ensure that people who apply can immediately indicate what such an employer is entitled to. I think that will increase people's chances at work again. My question was about the "ready for the crisis" note the Minister is making. I understand very well that you are thinking much more widely about vulnerable groups in the labour market. Fortunately, there is also a lot going on, for example when it comes to the level of education of people with a migration background. My question was specifically to zoom in on a few groups which, unfortunately, were often the first in the previous crises, in the wrong way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u119	Mrs. Van Brenk said the same thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u120	Here's what I'd like. I understand what the Minister is doing more generally. That is also important and fortunately a lot is going well, but I would have liked to have promised that specific searchlight on that note.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u121	That's what I'm telling you. More generally, we are of course thinking about the service side and about the personal services, for example about the UWV, about the training money and about the support for the training. I'll put the searchlight on those vulnerable groups. Mrs. Van Brenk said it, too. I think it is good to give this explicit consideration, for example to the elderly and people with a migration background. I don't see any furious looks from the benches, so that's gonna work out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u122	The minister needs his next block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u123	Yeah, the working arms. Almost all spokesmen this morning addressed the issue of working poverty. The fact that not everyone benefits from the economic backwind is also reflected in the SCP report on the working poor, which is also on the agenda for this debate. That report shows that work, or actually more hours of work, is the main cause of poverty. That is of course good, but at the same time the report shows that not everyone with a job has an income above the poverty line, and you certainly don't have that if you have a job with few hours. That is why, as a cabinet, we deliberately reduced taxes for people who work and have low incomes on 1 January. So people just have more left in their wallet, so it pays more to work. A broader discussion will also emerge from this. Mr Kuzu said this also in an interruption debate with Mr Wiersma. We must, of course, continue to finance education, care and infrastructure. That means you have a different mix in your taxes. The cabinet has therefore chosen to increase taxes on consumption and energy consumption, and then use that money to reduce the burden on labour and on work, precisely so that you have more left in your wallet when you go to work. On balance, 96% of the Dutch have a positive purchasing power picture for 2019. This is not only according to my own budget figures, but also according to last Friday's Nibud figures. And yes, there are things that are becoming more expensive: the care premium, the energy bill and the VAT. On the other hand, however, there is a very substantial reduction in the burden on work: a higher labour cut, a higher general tax cut and a lower rate in the first disc. They are also aimed at making work pay more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u124	In order to help the working poor, it is indeed necessary to relieve the burden on labour. But instead of increasing the burden on consumption and energy, could it also be an idea, for example, to increase the burden on large capital rather than reduce it, what is the choice of the cabinet at the moment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u125	I have already said something about this in my introduction. I believe that there is not enough attention to this in the public debate. In the coalition agreement, we made a conscious choice when it comes to reducing taxes: the bulk of the burden relief falls on people. There is €5.2 billion of relief for people and there is €1.2 billion overall relief for businesses. This is a sum of various measures, of increases in charges and reductions in charges. Indeed, corporate tax is being reduced, but on the other hand, the corporate tax base is being considerably widened, for example by tackling tax evasion. For the lover: think of ATAD, the Anti-Tax Avoidance Directive. That's what I'm saying from my old role as financial spokesman. It is precisely in order to tackle tax avoidance that the basis is widened, which gives us more tax revenues. This is largely financed by the Vpb's tariff reduction, not only for large companies, but also for SMEs. It goes to 15%. Why? Because those are the jobs for the Dutch economy. These are the companies that create jobs, jobs and added value. But on balance, there is a balance in the coalition agreement. Again, 5.2 billion relief for people and 1.2 billion relief for businesses. It has therefore really chosen the emphasis to do more about purchasing power, about reducing the burden at work, precisely to support people after these difficult years of crisis. Does that bring the Postcode lottery to every household? No, of course not. That's also a completely wrong picture. Yes, we choose that a large part of the Netherlands will improve in the coming year. Again, that's 96%. That is not about hundreds of euros, it is a few tens, but it is positive: everyone is getting better in purchasing power after those difficult years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u126	That there is a need to find a balance, I totally understand. I think no one here in the Chamber is opposed to seeking a balance. At the same time, we have had a discussion on working poor for years. If the Minister is convinced that the balance has now been found, can we talk about, for example, six months from now, that there are no more problems with working poor people? Is that what the emphasis is on? I see the Minister shaking his head, so why isn't the emphasis on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u127	Now Mr Kuzu is making a caricature of what I have just said. I said that the coalition agreement sought a balance and that, when it comes to people and businesses, people were chosen. We are talking about 5.2 billion versus 1.2 billion, but we are in balance, because we also want the Netherlands to remain an attractive country to undertake and we also want to create jobs. Underneath, there is indeed a justified question from Mr Kuzu: how do we ensure that the number of working poor does not increase, but decreases? What tools do we have to reach that group? I just mentioned one of them. That is the tax reduction that is regulated for 2019 but also for 2020 through the State Secretary's Tax Plan Snel. It's already covered by legislation. But it is also about part-time work, about less hours of work, because that is the main cause of in-work poverty. I just said we're in the middle of an interdepartmental policy investigation Part-time work. How can we make more people work more hours? This is not only good for income, but also good for eliminating deficits in education and health care, where job vacancies are not filled. However, the problems lie not only in legislation and regulation, but also in perceptions and social attitudes. There are blockades and removing them could help to solve these problems. In addition, we have discussions with the municipalities of the State Secretary, the first quarter of 2019, with the municipalities of the municipality of the Netherlands, in order to inform them more about the working poor, because municipalities often have eyes on people in the assistance or debt relief, but not on the workers. This is really a point of interest that Secretary of State Van Ark brings to the attention of the municipalities. If Mr Kuzu asks if it is enough, I say no. The cabinet is in the process of doing this and will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u128	Another possible solution to the problem of the working poor is, of course, the increase in the minimum wage. I made a proposal to that effect. I've offered a report that indicates what the situation is for those people right now. They often suffer from shortages. Did the Cabinet consider that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u129	For the minimum youth wage, but not for the generic minimum wage, I will come back in a moment in my reply to the response to the Nibud report, because there is also a delicate balance between employment and income. We do have the minimum wage, but of course we also have a system of allowances, which Mr Jasper van Dijk has also asked questions about. You have to look at the total. The risk of increasing the minimum wage is that a vulnerable part of the labour market does not come to work. You have to feel that balance. I see Mr Jasper van Dijk now looking surprised, but it cannot be surprising that if you raise the minimum wage, which also risks increasing unemployment at the bottom of the labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u130	We have looked at that, and that is not so bad. In America this battle is taking place, there is an increase in the minimum wage. This is also happening in other countries. It is not so bad for the reduction in employment which the Minister points out. Then I would like to go back to the core problem: the problem of the working poor and the point that the social minimum is too low in the Netherlands. This has been said, for example, by the Economic and Social Council. Is it not a question of civilisation to say: we will also raise the minimum wage, because we see that it has advantages? I mention more people out of poverty, more purchasing power, and it has no effect on employment. I'd say study our proposal well. Because that can bring many points to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u131	At the SP? That's good. Just a layered reaction. The first reaction is that I recognize the debate on the WMM and its impact on employment. I also know the analysis of Card and Krueger on New York and New Jersey ten years ago. I am also aware of the recent analysis from Germany on the impact of an increase in the unemployment rate. It's going all over the place. With Card and Krueger, so in America, there are examples of positive effects on employment, precisely because you have more consumption in the economy. In Germany, there are examples of negative effects on employment, as production costs increase. So you can't say something generic about it. My second answer is that at the same time I agree with Mr Jasper van Dijk that this should be our focus. Hence indeed an increase in bonuses, a reduction in the burden on labour but also specific attention to debts, for reaching that group by municipalities. The point is that the working poor should also be able to rely on the facilities that are indeed available at municipal level, but which are now not very attentive, and which need to be given more attention. It is not just about the working poor and the number of hours, but also thezzp'ers are a vulnerable group. That is another point that is also raised in the SCP investigation. I have just indicated to Mrs Van Brenk and Mrs Gijs van Dijk that we want to increase protection for that group through the minimum rate. That's what the coalition agreement says. That is very complicated and we are also working hard to give an answer to this. So we share the goal, not the instrument.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u132	Mr. Van Dijk, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u133	Then let me add an argument that can tempt even the right-wing parties to join our fantastic proposal. The moment you raise wages, you can also lower the fees. In fact, that seems to me to be a much fairer way of distributing the scarce resources in our society. So higher wages, and then eventually you can also look at an adjustment of the surcharges, which is now a huge bureaucratic circus.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u134	If you will allow me, I will come back to this in detail in a very separate block of 'wages, labour income quotes and supplements'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u135	I also raised the question of whether the social minimum is sufficient in the Netherlands. I would like to speak in favour of one group, because I have not yet heard it and because the Minister is hardly talking about it. So I challenge him. I've received a response from a client supporter. He says that here in Southeast Brabant 19% of the population must live alone from AOW. In the countryside near Gemert-Bakel... I didn't even know where that was.... it's 27%. He shows what that does to the elderly, because they are often forced to move to an apartment in this area, where they can continue to mean permanently. That move is a huge increase in costs. He'll show you what fees there are. He shows that you shouldn't have saved too much to pay for your funeral, because if you have more than €1,700, you don't get a number of supplements. The standard cost of living, the 100% standard used by municipalities, is €1,201. I assume the minister knows what the AOW is. That's $1,213. His question is: how can this, how can these people ever live? My question and my concern is: isn't that minimum just too low in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u136	A layered reaction to this too. When you look at the overall distribution of poverty in the Netherlands, the group of older people in particular is the smallest group with a risk of poverty. That's point one. Two. With that I do not deny that there is a group, especially if you are only dependent on the AOW, for which it is very tight, because you only have AOW. In addition to the AOW, of course, there are all kinds of supplements in the Netherlands: rent supplement, health care supplement and income supplements, just to raise incomes. One of the problems we see in this is also the non-use, that people do not know what they are entitled to or that they do not request it. This is also a point of interest to the Secretary of State for Finance. Mrs Van Brenn also has a point about the accumulation of costs. Especially when you are older, chronically ill and have a stacking of your own risk, but also the own contribution that is in the Wmo, i.e. in the district care or in the municipal scheme, that is a concern. We also do something about this as a cabinet. As of 1 January, its own risk has been frozen. In addition, we have made our own contribution a subscription system to prevent any accumulation of costs. We have also abolished the capital income adjustment, which was also a thorn in the eye of many older people. So in all these areas there have been real steps taken to reduce this accumulation of costs on 1 January. We can't take it all away, we just have to be honest about that. But the cabinet has a great deal of eye for this. Colleagues De Jonge and Bruins have just taken these steps on these two subjects, their own contribution and the capital income adjustment. So it's a layered reality, where you have to see every time what you can do to solve the problems that really exist for people.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u137	I told you, this is a client supporter. He has sent beautiful attachments that contain all the supplements that can be requested. And yet he comes out that people can't actually make ends meet, can't live. This often concerns single widows. Is there any other way I can forward this information to the Minister? Because I find this so distressing, something really has to be done about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u138	Mrs. Van Brenk can certainly forward it to me. Mr Gijs van Dijk had the specific question about self-employed workers. I have already answered this in a generic sense, namely that we are, of course, trying to protect the bottom and also set minimum rates with thezzp-plans. A lot of research has recently been done on working poor people. Following the Peters/Van Brenn motion, Mr Heerma said that even though we are going to ask the ESC to explore the identification of working poor. In addition, the Secretary of State talks with municipalities to draw attention to the working poor, which also includes thosezzp'ers. This morning I saw a piece, I thought in the Volkskrant, which also brings this point to the attention. That's a valid point, so we're going to talk about it with municipalities. By the way, you can see that reality is complicated again, because if you are self-employed and you have a partner, then for municipal regulations a partner is often a power test. This applies to workers, but also tozzp'ers. There too, I think it pays to make the possibilities more transparent. That is what we are talking about with the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u139	A quick question. Indeed, we are more often talking about the protection of self-employed people, especially self-employed people who earn very little. That's the minimum hourly rate. A few changes have already been made here that it is probably not going to work. So then a bit of a question comes to mind: what is plan B? We can't wait very long.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u140	In the letter I sent to your Chamber in November, I explained in detail why it is complicated to introduce a generic minimum rate. At the same time, I mentioned in that letter that we are working on alternatives to achieve the goal. The core of the problem is that you make self-employed workers compulsory. The introduction of a minimum rate was actually in the coalition agreement, but there are legal loopholes. The aim is, of course, to protect self-employed people better at the bottom. There are opportunities for that, but we have to work it out very well and neatly. It's complex, but I'm very motivated to do this and to take it further. I don't know exactly what the timing is, but somewhere in this spring the next step will come, not just for the bottom but also for the web module and for the top of thezzp market. I am very motivated to achieve the objective, because I really see that there is a potential problem for the Dutch labour market.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u141	In the meantime, it has been agreed that we will maintain with the Tax Administration and the inspection at companies that are unwilling and that we clearly see...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u142	You mean the obvious evildoers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u143	Yeah, obviously evil people. Thank you. Is that a bit more of a picture now? Because I'm still not getting much image and sound that triggers deterrent reactions from companies that continue on the road that we wouldn't want.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u144	Honestly, I don't remember this. I remember that on 6 December the Finance Commission discussed this with Secretary of State Snel, but I do not know the latest state of affairs. In the suspension I can ask what is the last stand, what was shared in the Chamber and what was shared with the tax spokesmen in the AO of 6 December. By the way, your Chamber also asked for a letter on the deliveryoo ruling. We are, of course, working on that and will send that letter to your Chamber. It is, of course, striking that in a few months' time a canton judge actually makes two different judgments in the same case. That already indicates how complicated this legal situation is. But I'll come back to that later. Mr Wiersma asked: how do we make work financially more attractive, how do we promote it and how do we combat poverty? I would also like to refer to Mr Jasper van Dijk's questions on the poverty trap. As of January 1st, we will have lower labour costs. It makes work pay more. But what we do specifically, for example, is this. In fact, there was a very hard break-off point in the rent payment. So if you made €1 more, there was the risk that you lost €150 per month at once. We have adapted this phasing-out path in the Tax Plan, precisely to reduce the poverty trap and also to reduce marginal pressure. The step towards lower rates in the first disk and the step towards less tax disks also reduce marginal pressure for that group and that therefore pays more. In addition, we have increased the working discount in the income path between the minimum wage and the modal income, to have the incentive to have more left at that level if you start working more or earn more. The same applies to the child-related budget. I believe that's on the agenda tonight in your room. The same applies to this, taking into account the marginal pressures and the poverty trap. In other words, there are a lot of routes at the same time where we are really trying to reduce taxes on labour and make it more attractive to work or to work more, I say in the direction of Mr Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u145	That's very good. I was complimenting you for that, too. The only question is: is that ever done or should we continue to do so? We must, of course, continue to do so. I mentioned the example of the installer who is going to work a little more. It is precisely now that we need it. Of those million people who are on the sidelines, 450,000 are already working but want to work more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u146	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u147	This quest is about the question: how do we get the employer to offer it and that the employee sees that this is working? The installer I mentioned earns €100 more. Then it costs the employer €136 and leaves the installer €50 net. What opportunities does the Minister see for doing something more for this group besides what we are already doing?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u148	That is a complicated question, also given the financial commitments made in the coalition agreement. If you want to reduce the burden on labour further, you're gonna have to get it from somewhere else. Under the 2019 Tax Plan, Secretary of State Snel has already taken very big steps by 2020 with the two-disc system, reducing the marginal pressure and increasing the childcare allowance and the child-related budget, but it remains a search to make the difference between super-gross, the wage costs of the employer, and the employee's net wage smaller and clearer. However, I cannot just say here: I will do an extra billion. This is not in line with the agreements we made in the coalition agreement. What's on the agenda, that's the ibo Part Time. In this context, specific consideration will be given to the instruments that could be used to tackle this problem. I would just like to make a link to Mr Jasper van Dijk's question, because there is also the ibo Supplements on the agenda. This is about how to ensure that you can provide targeted income support, yet it works well for the labour market. The cabinet is working on both subjects with the aim of better mapping them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u149	It is not a simple question, but it cannot be done in this debate. Maybe the Minister can take that search question into account in what I just asked, an update of the cut-off plan. Maybe he can do that before the summer, I hope even a little sooner. Twice a year would be nice, but that aside. In it, the Minister can show whether we can do it, whether we can actually get people to work more hours or whether other measures are needed. We have to see what they must be, but I hope we can get a step further, so that we also know what does and what doesn't work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u150	I don't know exactly what the timeline of the two ibos is. I will come back to that in second place if Mr Wiersma agrees. Then the block of wages, labour income ratio and income and wealth inequality. The economy is going well. This is also reflected in the labour market. A lot of people have found jobs. Unemployment has fallen dramatically in recent years. The number of jobs has increased dramatically. Also people who were discouraged, and no longer even applied, have found a position, a place on the labour market. That leads, certainly recently, to higher wages. I agree with Mr Jasper van Dijk and Mr Gijs van Dijk that wage growth was very long behind what you would expect in an up-and-coming economic situation and the labour market situation. That has also surprised us for some time. That is why we asked the CPB last year in the budget debate. I believe that, following a question by Mr Wiersma.... to investigate wage developments. In this research it has been made clear that this is probably mainly due to labour productivity growth lagging behind. Fortunately, we saw in the third quarter of 2018 that wages were rising, then by 2.1%. That was the highest wage growth since 2009. In the collective agreements concluded this year, 2019, wage growth is currently 2.5%. Those are numbers from the AWVN. So you can see that the rise in wages is in line with the tightness of the labour market. The upward trend seems to be continuing, even though it is provisional figures and is a limited number of collective agreements. It is, however, an indication that labour shortages translate into higher wages. On the labour income ratio, I sent a letter to the Chamber in June stating that it shows a limited decline. The increase in the labour income ratio this year and next, the tax measures, and the revision of the CBS figures, have made the picture much more positive than it was then. As far as I am concerned, the complexity of this discussion is related to the natural level of the labour income ratio. Mr. Gijs van Dijk started with a quote by Joop den Uyl from 1973. It is true that the labour income ratio was much higher then, but that was a prelude to the nasty 1980s with high unemployment and a policy of wage moderation following the Wassenaar Agreement of 1982, aimed at restoring competitiveness and thus reducing the labour income ratio. There is therefore no natural level of the labour income ratio. What you see now, and that makes sense in the current economic situation with a better position of work, is that the labour income ratio is rising again and moving towards the long-term average. The reduction since 1995 is, according to the Central Planning Bureau, very limited and no longer statistically significant. About as much as almost 25 years ago of the now much discussed cake goes to workers. All in all, I sincerely wonder if this is the right indicator to conduct this debate, especially since you do not have a natural level of that labour income ratio. Mr Van Weyenberg asked a question about the lack of capacity. This is also a subject that is often in the spotlight. The Netherlands always comes a little strange from international statistics and figures. That has to do with our pension assets. Many other countries have a pay as you go system, i.e. a pay-as-you-go pension scheme. They have private savings for the pension, in the house or on the savings bank. In the Netherlands, of course, we have these savings in our pension funds, EUR 1,500 billion. This is not included in the capital statistics, because it is part of the pension funds, which creates a distorted picture. If you did take it, the power inequality in the Netherlands is more in line with that in the neighbouring countries: Germany, Austria. There is no question at all of a strange situation, nor of a situation that it becomes much more uneven over the years. The same applies to income inequality. I thought it was Mr Van Dijk who asked a question about this. It has also been stable in the Netherlands for 20 years. In fact, the government agreement reduces the gini coefficient by 2.7%, because we have an eye for income inequality. That also brings me to Mr Van Weyenberg's question on this point. He asked what explains the increasing primary income inequality. That's an interesting question. The feeling that there is a bit here is that the underlying primary income is getting further and further apart. In part, this is a statistical reality. It has to do with the fact that pension income and AOW are not included in the primary income. Since we are ageing in the Netherlands and there are increasing numbers of pensioners, I say EUR 3.4 million from my mind, part of that income is not included in the primary income sources. It's statisticalally distorting the image. That's one part of the explanation. The other part of the explanation is that there seems to be a skill-biased technological growth, in which highly educated people get an increasing share of the cake. That has to do with my introduction, which is to stack opportunities, I'll say. Mr Van Weyenberg rightly said that you need to redistribute more and more to keep income inequality constant. This also leads to grumpy, because it leads to higher burdens, but also to greater dependence on income support. So I think it's a very interesting and rightful question. Mr Van Weyenberg asked me to map this in an analysis. I would like to do that because I myself am very interested in the answer to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u151	Thank you for that commitment; that also saves motions. For all kinds of reasons, I'm okay with that. I asked if the Minister could comment on the following. There is a lot of different material, but I still lack a bit of the unambiguous analysis and perhaps also the conclusion that we should draw from it, including politically. Can the Minister tell us when he thinks he can send this to the Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u152	I'll come back to that in second term, if you don't mind. The reason why I am reluctant to do things very quickly is that we have now run a lot at once within the department: the Labour Market Act in balance and thezzp process, but also the integration policy and pensions. We must be careful that our officials do not go after the facts, let me put it this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u153	I fully understand that, and I also know that there is a lot on the part. That's a good thing. It is mainly about bringing a lot together and carrying out an analysis on it. I am not asking for a three-year external investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u154	Clear. I think a lot is already available, also in international, but I also want to protect my people a little bit. So I'll come back to it in second term. The last block in my letter about the social state was about the chance of influence. This is indeed about the debate on integration, the tensions in society, the prevention of excesses. Mr Kuzu rightly noted in his contribution that a lot of people in the Netherlands are concerned about dividing lines, for example between religions or between people with a non-Dutch or non-western background and people with a well-Dutch background. Mr Kuzu is also right when he says that the distinction becomes smaller when people really have to deal with each other, so that these statistics also give a very mixed and layered picture of reality. What I found interesting about Mr Kuzu's input is that he blames everyone here for polarisation, while Mr Kuzu's input itself cannot be seen separately from any polarisation, but completely aside. As a cabinet, we are working on various routes, in all nuances, to tackle the tensions that exist. On the one hand, that means preventing excesses. In particular, we are talking about combating radicalisation and extremism. We also discussed this with your Chamber just before the summer. It's about dealing with problematic behavior. How are we going to support municipalities? How can they be given more scope for action in the neighbourhoods so that, if there are signs of radicalisation, they can actually intervene? The mayor and the aldermen must be given tools to get to work on this. On the positive side, it is also about promoting citizenship. One of the subjects of Minister Slob is the promotion of citizenship transfer in education. A consultation on a law has just begun, which is precisely aimed at getting attention and paying attention to it in education. On the question of integration, too, reality is layered. There are a lot of things very good, I said that in my introduction. With training and participation, but also with the participation of people with a non-Western background, things are really moving in the right direction. At the same time, I also see the tensions and fears associated, for example, with radicalisation and exclusion. There is, in my view, no clear solution to this. These are all separate problems, separate concerns, which we are working on as a cabinet, for example through the law integration labour market, for example through the integration system, for example by combating radicalisation and extremism. A wide range of issues in which the cabinet cooperates widely: Minister Grapperhaus, Minister Dekker, Minister Blok when it comes to foreign funding, for example. There is therefore a broader perspective and the tensions that exist in society deserve our continued attention. But I would also be very pleased if we could now and then put the positive things in the window a little more in line with Mr Kuzu's somewhat polarizing language. A lot of things are going well, too. Mr Smeulders spoke in an interrupting debate with Mr Heerma about the possibility of influence, the possibility of control. Mr. Heerma had "the chance of ownership." Those are indeed legitimate questions. The government is, of course, also seen as a semi-conductor of rules and of mistrust. Look at what happens in healthcare, for example. Hugo de Jonge is in the process of scraping, just to make that mistrust a place for trust. Control is more to me than that. Control is also about directing your own life. It is also about the chance of a good education, the chance of a good job. We have a lot of plans for that. I have just stated in detail that we want to put these opportunities more in the window, give them more chance. This is also about the possibility of influence, of control over career, health, but also about your immediate environment. There is a report from Mr Remkes's state committee, which we will shortly be presenting with a cabinet response. I'm not sure what the timing of that is. That's on the table with my colleague Ollongren. Then we will certainly have a debate on how to better regulate control, ownership, influence in the Netherlands. Because the feeling of distance between government and people is there, and we really need to do something with that, also in relation to the outlined complexity of, for example, the surcharges. This is a point which is quite rightly addressed. We do not have a magic wand, but there is a broad indication that this is a point that we must also continue to shape. Perhaps it is because we spent seven months in the same room, that I very much agree with Mr Heerma when he says that we should also appeal to people themselves. It's not just government, just get legislation to make things better. It also means that you have a social responsibility as an employer, as an employee, as a human being, as a consumer, as an investor. I'd like to leave it at that, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u155	That last one just triggered me. The Minister said that the responsibility lies with people themselves. I agree with him. As far as I am concerned, therefore, you should give them more room, for example, in setting up their pensions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u156	Oh, dear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u157	People are different, so give them more chances. My question is another one. Mr Heerma also triggered me with the remark that we cannot all complain about the position of deliveryers, and at the same time all think: hey, free delivery, I order another book without delivery costs from the cheapest site. That's like saying it's too bad the neighborhood store is gone, but at the same time sneaking into the supermarket two villages away because it's three cents cheaper there. So that's where I think we all have a problem as customers. But I also see this task for employers. I would like to mention one case which also leads to a great deal of discontent. It concerns the rewards of top executives in this country. That's not what politics is about; I get that. That's what the shareholders are about. But it can't be explained if in 2015 the boss of a large multinational will receive just as much as 10 million in his pension after his appointment? And there too, political standards have a role to play in expressing their views. But above all, these leaders of our Dutch industry also have a responsibility to show for themselves that they are part of this society.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u158	I agree with this argument. But then there is always the question: what are you going to do about legislation to get this done? That always complicates this discussion in this field. And this question must also occasionally be answered fairly: it cannot be done through legislation. As Mr Van Weyenberg may know, I have been a financial spokesman for seven years, and for seven years I have been struggling with the discussion on bonuses in the financial sector. The Dutch legislation on bonuses in the financial sector is one of the strictest, and that is positive. At the same time, you have also seen the debate on avoidance and the question of how far the legal power goes to enforce it. I think there is also a moral aspect to it for the whole of society. I agree with Mr Heerma on this point. It is not just the government that needs to be looked at. So I think Mr Van Weyenberg and I agree.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u159	Well, um...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u160	That would be a coincidence, wouldn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u161	That would be a coincidence. I fully agree with the Minister that you should also look at the role of people as customers, as consumers. But certainly you also have to look at companies in their responsibility as part of this society. I see the differences between the rewards for the top of companies and those for the employees. Those differences have been a lot in the news. In America, it's a lot more crazy than it is with us. Politics cannot always solve this by means of legislation, but I also think it is particularly important that politics should be heard on this point. This cabinet has shown itself when it felt that wages could rise in this country. I thought that was very sensible. I hope that we also belong to this kind of extortion of remuneration not only the Chamber, but also the Cabinet. Because this really is a source of discontent. I'm gonna have to do it with a couple of tens. I'm happy about that, but in the paper I read about bonuses of millions in some companies, sometimes even after all sorts of settlements with the Public Prosecutor's Office. That also nourishes mistrust, it also nourishes discomfort, and I understand that. And I am also counting on this cabinet to express itself morally on this issue, regardless of legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u162	We are. Let me give you two examples. First of all, look at the recent attitude of Mr Hoekstra, the Minister of Finance, in the public debate when it came to rewards. A second example is not so much about rewards, but about social responsibility, as a person, as a consumer, but also as an investor. For example, I am proud that, just before the recess, Mrs Kaag, Mr Hoekstra and I signed a covenant with 80 pension funds on socially sustainable investment. There is also broad attention to labour exploitation, to the environment, but indeed to inequality of pay. The largest funds in the Netherlands, including the ABPs and PFZWs, have also signed up to this. Those funds really have a big influence because they invest a lot of money worldwide. 90% of these 1,500 billion pension assets are invested outside the Netherlands. And so we have a responsibility for that, too. I very much agree with that. Last block, Chairman: Other. Mr Gijs van Dijk asked: is the cabinet prepared to set up a security monitor? I am going to take this question together with Mr Heerma and Mr Wiersma's appeal: how are we going to deal with this debate? Because there is a lot of information; thick, beautiful books with really nice figures. Mr Van Dijk is served at his beck and call, because the SCP will be working with the follow-up study on Difference in the Netherlands in the coming years. In that 2014 study, the SCP made it clear how resources are distributed among the groups. It is not just about economic capacity, but also cultural, social and personal capacity. Mr Heerma, as a former member of the Brede Welvaart committee, can also discuss this in detail. I was on that committee, too. I think it is very positive and a good step to map that out. These are all resources that determine the choices that a person has in life, the opportunities and the risks. The SCP continues with this and therefore also keeps a finger on the wrist at these points. Which brings me to the point when in the year we do this. We now have a debate one and a half years after this publication has been published. It's about 2017. It is about figures from 2014 and 2015 in many cases. How can we better anchor this in the policy process? That's what it's really about. At the committee Brede Welvaart we have chosen to discuss the Monitor Brede Welvaart at the financial annual report of the Reich. I don't know what's going on, I'm telling you the truth. I do not know how the SCP's research programme works and how dependent they are on the CBS. Mr Heerma also knows that, of course, the CBS has a fixed timetable for producing statistics. But I do agree with the Chamber that the social state is an important report on which a good debate needs to be held. Of course, I always come to the Chamber when you call me, but I would like to discuss with the SCP what is possible to publish it earlier in the year and then have the debate about it with your Chamber. If that does justice to Mr Heerma's question, I would be happy to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u163	Mr Van Weyenberg has just indicated that he, and all of us, may have been spared a motion. I'm considering filing a motion. Several spokesmen are also fond of this, because there is a feeling that this is so important that we should not discuss this in a four-minute debate. But I would like a somewhat more solid story from the Minister on this, because I have been stuck with 'I'm not sure I can do it'. I would like the Minister to promise that he will deal with the SCP and that he will discuss the broad shared wish from the Chamber there. Then there are timing, design, but also how seriously the cabinet reacts quickly, where, as far as I am concerned, the Minister's intention must be: then we, as a cabinet, will also react firmly to it, so that we can hold the debate on the people behind the figures structuralally every year. If you want to commit to this, and if we hear about the possibilities and the impossibilities for the summer of 2019, then I do not need to make a motion at this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u164	In any case, I would like to assure you that before the summer I will inform you of all the questions you have just asked: timing, cabinet response. But I have two uncertainties, I'm just saying very open. One is: what can the SCP deliver in the timing of the research programme, but also in view of the figures that come from the CBS and do I not ask for anything impossible? So that's disclaimer one. Disclaimer two is that I also want to map out what we already have in the financial report of the Empire when it comes to the Monitor Brede Welvaart, for which the SCP of course also provides a lot of input. If you have all kinds of doubles, it doesn't make any sense either. But with these two disclaimers in mind, I would like to answer Mr Heerma's question before the summer. Mr Jasper van Dijk asked another question about the Nibud report. Written questions have also been tabled by the SP Group. An extensive response to this will follow; then we will simply map your questions nicely. Of course, the assistance is not a comprehensive scheme, it is not a broad income provision. Of course, this also has to do with the difference between benefits and work, but a nuance to the report is that support for minimums does not end with assistance and with the allowances, only with the national schemes. Municipalities also often offer tailor-made services, not only in the case of poverty and debt policies, but also in the case of municipal income policies or through, for example, city passes and other allowances for people on low incomes. So the analysis of adequacy should always be seen in that broader context of the national instruments and municipal policies. The tricky thing is, of course, that there are differences between the municipalities. That makes the analysis difficult. But my final reaction, in response to Mr Jasper van Dijk's written set, will be sent to your Chamber shortly. There was an interesting question from Mr Smeulders. In his speech he talked about a new social contract. He also talked about universal social security and how you value it. How does the Minister see that, so was the literal question. I think this is a very valid question. It is also one of the backgrounds to my request to the Borstlap Committee, the Committee on the Regulation of Work, to give a broader picture of what they see as the future of labour law, social security and taxation when it comes to regulating work. We see that the labour market is becoming more pluralistic or heterogeneous. Just look at the discussion about zzp, call contracts, flex workers, people with fixed contracts, and contracting. We also need to look for the future at how to ensure that workers are protected in a certain way. This is reflected in the order given to the Borstlap Committee. One of the answers to this is universal social security. Other answers are, for example, mini-systems or the re-evaluation of the system of public insurance and employee insurance. I asked the Borstlap Committee to analyse this and give an opinion on it. So you can philosophize about that, but let me be sensible and wait for that advice. The question is quite right. In the coming years, and also for this committee, it is a search to provide an answer, given that the world is changing, that the labour market is changing and that people's preferences are changing. Some people also do not want to work in employment anymore and simply want to have more freedom. However, it calls for a fundamental review of our social security structure, which was created in the 1950s on the basis of enterprise-by-business production. But Mr Smeulders certainly has a theme to address.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u165	A brief reaction. I understand we're gonna talk about that in the fall. I very much agreed with the analysis that the Minister started with: on globalisation, on changes and on the fact that the higher education staff are mainly taking advantage of them and that the more vulnerable people, often the less educated, are particularly affected. Has the Minister informed the committee that a solution must also be found, so that not one half of society benefits only more and the other half is more and more the goat?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u166	Implicitly, of course, it's in this question. Step one is: is your analysis correct? This is also in response to Mr Van Weyenberg's question: what explains the primary income inequality? What kind of developments are underneath? Question two is: is it just about work or are there other social developments that lead to different relationships? I think that is also true; that there are other preferences of people, that people deal differently with work and care and otherwise want to organise their lives. Part of this is also the question of what level of protection you offer, to which level and to whom. Your question is therefore implicitly hidden in the committee's question. I do not think that the committee is going to answer the question of how we can reduce the difference between high and low-skilled people at global level. They don't, but of course it's about the outcome. I shall now turn to Mr Heerma's question, as a result of the interruption by Mr Jasper van Dijk on the monthly supplements. I have already said that the ibo, the inter-departmental policy research Increases, is now being carried out. It's under thorough review. We all see the complexity. We see that the surcharges are a very efficient way to provide income support, but also lead to complexity in implementation and uncertainty and post-payment. This is particularly true in the case of the somewhat larger surcharges: the rent and the childcare allowance. I certainly think it's a nice thought. Unfortunately, there are several implementation reasons which make this very difficult in practice. If you would like to pay supplements per month, you would also want to have incomes per month. However, we want to join with the real situation of people, so that if they become unemployed they will receive a supplement as soon as possible; otherwise, for example, they will not be able to pay their rent. If you want to do that every month, you need so much administrative burden, so much income exchange, and by the way, so much input from citizens themselves, who have to keep track of what their income has been, that this is not in line with expectations. There is, of course, discussion about predictability and signaling when things go wrong or a situation changes. If my child gets out of child care and goes to school, it's gonna have consequences for my fees, which the IRS doesn't automatically see. So you can go and see how that can be done better. But I do not think it is real for the feasibility of a month.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u167	But what does the minister do against the poverty trap, which makes people think: I'm not going to work this month, because if I do, I'm going to get just above that income line and have to pay back the supplements for the whole year?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u168	I have just tried to argue that we are trying to make this marginal pressure.... that is on tax rates but also on the reduction of surcharges... much more gradual......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The most concrete example is the rent allowance. That's where the hardest distinction is. In the case of an increase in income from €22,000 to €22,001, this supplement went down by about €1,000 per year at once. By making that difference much smaller and much more gradual, this risk becomes much smaller. That is, of course, complicated, because if someone makes a lot of money in one month, it is possible, of course, if someone has a good job and makes a lot of money with it, you will quickly be shooting above the level of income that people are entitled to pay. Those big results are always very difficult for the system to catch. But more generally, we are just trying to push down that marginal pressure and reduce the spikes, the results.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u169	I remain of the opinion that we should have a fundamental debate on the surcharges. Anyway, the minister says the cabinet is in the process of changing the system. When are we gonna get word about that? And what ministry does that come under? 'Cause I'd like to stay involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u170	It's under the Ministry of Finance. The partial report is available mid-2019 and the final report at the end of 2019. I know that the tax spokesmen discussed this extensively in the Committee on Finance following a motion by Mr Omtzigt, I believe. I'm looking at tax spokesman Van Weyenberg, who confirms that. In response to Mr Wiersma's question about the other ibo, ibo Parttime: this is in the Chamber in the autumn, so just after the summer the report is available. That still doesn't mean I'm going back on my commitment to take it your way before the summer, but that does mean that these instruments will only be available after the summer. I may have forgotten questions, but I hope that I have done a great deal of justice to the questions from your Chamber. Finally, I would like to respond to the 2011 quote that Mr Wiersma mentioned, which is important reform. I still very much agree with that. I would like to point out to Mr Wiersma that 2011 was the time of the Rutte I cabinet. It was precisely the D66 group that had put the reforminis in the window at the time: nothing happened in areas such as the AOW, the labour market, the mortgage interest deduction. Fortunately that was restored afterwards, and that is why we are much better placed after the crisis. But the latter is purely personal, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u171	Short, Mr. Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u172	That is true, except perhaps for pensions: the situation has not changed that much. I therefore encourage the Minister to continue to do so in particular.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u173	I'm very motivated by pensions. Mr Wiersma knows that. I certainly am after messages from this morning in De Telegraaf. The new figures on the levels of cover for pensions are also coming out soon. This remains an urgent problem, and I am very motivated to address it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u174	Thank you for your answer in the first term. Then we can proceed immediately to the second term of office. You all have a speaking time of 1 minute and 20 seconds. I will only allow clarifying questions about motions. I call Mr Gijs van Dijk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the Minister for the comprehensive reply. I said at the beginning of this debate that this debate is about so many things that matter, that it is a good thing that the Minister, after several questions from the Chamber, is going to see how we can do this fundamentally every year. We often talk about figures, but not about the people behind them, the quality of public services and the uncertainties and certainties of people. I think it is a good thing that we are doing that and that the Minister is working on it. I have also specifically asked for the situation of the many working people who have to live in poverty. Can the Minister talk to the Secretary of State with municipalities in addition to the CDA's motion and 50PLUS in the budget last year to see with municipalities what we can already do for those people. I had a motion in preparation, but it is not necessary because the Minister has promised. I would like to hear from the Minister that before the summer recess he will let us know what that conversation will bring. That's it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u176	Thank you very much. I call Mr Van Weyenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u177	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you to the Minister for the comprehensive answer in a debate that can never do justice to the breadth of the issues and their importance. It doesn't require a motion, but I'm glad we're going to find a way to embed this in our regular work as well. Because, yes, the figures from the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau really add something to the scope of the debate on many issues: not only social affairs and employment, but also living, how you deal with the democracy of the future and much wider. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Minister for the commitment he made in his action plan on whether we are ready for the crisis to look at groups that were always particularly vulnerable in the past when the economy was against. He will also inform the Chamber in a note about the increasing inequality in the primary income distribution thus before the government redistributes. He'll owe us when he gets here. Mr. Chairman. We're gonna talk a lot about this. We start next week with the Labour Market Act in balance. But there is still a great deal of work to be done when it comes to assistance. As far as I am concerned, the debate is mainly an incentive not to limit it to such a one-off debate with four minutes of speaking time per speaker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u178	Thank you, Mr. Van Weyenberg. I call Mr Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u179	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank the Minister for his reply. I was not entirely happy with the answer on the issue of control, because this was very much drawn to the state committee parliamentary system. It is very much about democracy, but the theme is wider. To demonstrate this, a quote from the CDA's election programme that shows this beautifully: "We want people to have more influence not only within the formal democratic institutions, but also in other semi-public organisations. Wherever important decisions are taken that affect people's lives, they need to be able to participate and participate: parents and pupils at school, patients and nurses in care, tenants in their housing corporations and participants in their pension funds. More control increases engagement, but also ensures checks-and-balances, which are often badly needed." This is my wonderful argument for the motion I am about to table, so I am counting on Mr Heerma's support. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that efficiency thinking and scaling-up in the public sector have increasingly less and less control over their work and that users often no longer see the forest because of the trees;]] [[believes that users and professionals should be more influential;]] [[calls on the Government to come forward with concrete initiatives to achieve this and to inform the Court of Justice of this for the consideration of the 2020 budget,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Smeulders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24515-458]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u180	Mr. Chairman. Many anointing words from the Minister when it comes to the growing gap between high and low incomes, higher burdens, lower wages and more working poor. That is the harsh reality, and the cabinet should be working on it. Mr. Chairman. I have a motion on the poverty trap. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas people are in debt because they have earned "too much" and therefore have to repay high amounts of surcharges;]] [[Whereas this means that people, just before reaching the income bonus limit, stop working in the last months of the year in order to avoid having to pay back allowances;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibilities of resolving these problems, for example by basing supplements on monthly income;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24515-459]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u181	I have one final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas there are some 320,000 people who work, but do not have enough income to make ends meet (the working poor);]] [[Whereas people who go to work or work more hours do not always improve and sometimes even decline;]] [[calls on the government to come forward with proposals to resolve the poverty trap and pay (more) jobs, without reducing income groups;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Jasper van Dijk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24515-460]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u182	Mr. Chairman. I, too, would like to thank the Minister most warmly for the answers he has given in the first term. I am very pleased that he shares the analysis of the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, which is in line with the analysis of DENK on the tensions in society. There is a growing gap between people with and without migration backgrounds. This is also demonstrated by successive reports from the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau. But I was less satisfied with the Minister's participation in the flow of polarization. Then I say very clearly that in the last 20 years there has been enough polarisation in this Chamber. If there's one consequence of that polarization, that's the origin of DENK. So the cause of polarization is twenty years of division here in the Chamber by rhetoric. Then there is a consequence and that is DENK. I wonder if the Minister is also prepared to look further at the underlying causes of this gap in society. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the CBS notes that 68% of the Dutch claim that there are tensions between people with and without migration background;]] [[noting that the CBS notes that only 26% of the Dutch actually experience these tensions in their immediate surroundings;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out a detailed study of the origin of these images in order to take concrete measures to counter these images,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Kuzu. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24515-461]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u183	Who wonders how many times has it happened to Mr Koolmees that his contribution has been experienced as polarizing, because that is not the style I usually find with him. But that aside. I am glad that we are having this debate and that, on the initiative of Mr Gijs van Dijk, we are therefore starting to really discuss the social state here, in this Parliament, because the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau gives a look at people behind the figures. The form in which that happens needs to be improved. It should be more structural, with a serious cabinet response, actually standard every year or every two years, depending on how often the report appears. I therefore welcome the Minister's commitment. I had a pretty broad signed concept motion. I'm going to hold on to that because I want to give the Minister the chance to make serious work of this with his two disclaimers. I hope to hear more about this before the summer, and I hope that we will have this debate more often. My concern is that in this debate too there was a tendency to talk about aiq's and gini's. Those are just numbers, too. I know that the Minister is very fond of figures, but the deeper problem of the gaps that arise between, for example, high- and low-skilled people can be hidden, also behind a gini and an aiq. which show a good trend on paper. Then the cabinet can say that it is doing well, but those gaps are not solved. So let us really have this debate about the reality behind those figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u184	Thank you, Mr. Heerma. Mrs Van Brenk has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u185	Mr. Chairman. I have three motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, according to the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau, almost 1 million people in the Netherlands are poor;]] [[Whereas according to the ESC, the minimum wage and the social minimum did not rise in proportion to the increase in fixed charges which could put households at a disadvantage;]] [[calls on the Government to take appropriate measures to further reduce working and non-working poverty and to report to Princess Day on its progress;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the number of working poor is higher than the number of beneficiaries below the poverty line;]] [[calls on the government, together with municipalities, to pay more attention to this group of workers within the framework of poverty and debt policies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas 80% of the self-employed do not have disability insurance and a higher level of self-employed insurance is desirable;]] [[calls on the Committee on Labour Law, Social Security and Taxation to include in its opinion the possibility and desirability of collective disability insurance for all workers,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24515-462]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24515-463]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-24515-464]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u186	Mr. Chairman. I would like to keep the Minister's promise, and I would also like to thank him for answering the client supporter because people who only have to make ends meet with AOW are really in trouble if they are forced to move to a more expensive apartment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u187	Thank you, Mrs Van Brink. Then we will listen to Mr Wiersma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u188	Mr President, thank you. Thank you to the Minister, also for all the commitments already mentioned by a number of colleagues. We are pleased with that. It is good that we are having this debate. Still, you'll just sit at home, send a letter after a letter, maybe hundreds of letters, and don't get in the way yet. Then you'll have some time to watch this debate and you'll think, "What's in it for me?" It is still our job to really change that. That goes beyond numbers and fine rankings. I mentioned my concerns. They are about us seeing more and more only the people who are like themselves and that we live in our own bubbles. I asked the Minister for creativity in solutions, new ways of getting people back in the way. I think this could go together. I call upon the Minister to do so. I was at De Broekriem last Monday, a very nice foundation that helps young people to work. They started a few years ago, organized dozens of training sessions a month and really help not only young people, but also more and more elderly people to work there. For example, there are still many beautiful examples of real doers who have a lot of meaning in society, who do not immediately look at the government but have done it themselves. I would ask the Minister to invite all these people through an open invitation. Go brainstorming with them about what beautiful things we all see there and invite us to do so. We may be able to help to increase these positive initiatives and learn from them to improve policy here in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u189	Seven motions have been tabled. The minister has received them by now, but he's requesting a five-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u190	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks also to the members of your Chamber for the second term. Mr Gijs van Dijk spoke about working people living in poverty and about the conversation with the municipality that takes place in the first quarter. I would like to assure you that I will inform your summer recess room of the results of this conversation. Mr Van Weyenberg asks when there will be a possible exploration of the primary income distribution. In the spring. Quite a lot of information is available about this and we can put it together. And indeed, next week we are going to deal extensively with the Labour Market Act in balance. I'm looking forward to it right now. Mr Smeulders made a comment about control, a quote from the CDA election programme. Good. It could also come from other party programs. Beautiful. I very much agree. Students in schools and pension fund participants: the latter is my area. I can say something about that, namely that Mr Blok and Mrs Koşer Kaya have tabled a legislative proposal on controlling pensioners. Very much so. On the other hand, in the recitals in the motion some words are used that can be more nuanced and in the operative part "the government requests concrete initiatives'. That gives me a bit of a sense of'search for something', which, frankly, I do not think does justice to this discussion. That we should have the discussion about control, about ownership, about participation: yes. That we will have a broader discussion on the occasion of the State Commission: yes as well. That it is a continuous search for representation... I have been talking yesterday, for example, to representatives of elderly organisations, not the trade unions, but the elderly organisations. They also ask for a place at the table when it comes to pensions. I understand. So the search for that is a fair one, but the motion in part no. 458, I think it's a little too noncommittal. That's why I have to dissuade her. This is without prejudice to my agreement with Mr Smeulders: how we are going to tackle this is a point of attention for all of us. But I think this motion is a little too noncommittal, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u192	I'm not surprised the motion's being dissuaded. I find it extremely regrettable, because you can see that the subject is actually being taken up in a very fragmented manner. The motion is basically a call to look at it more from an overarching point of view. But if the cabinet does not need to do so, then we as a party may take initiatives of our own.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u193	Of course, the latter is always good. I encourage that. Then the first. We have, of course, received a very thorough report from the Remkes Committee. This is indeed also about influence and control in the wider sense. I think that Mr Smeulders is right to say that ownership, or the addition of Mr Heerma, is also an interesting point on which there is still a debate to be held and on which there should be a cabinet response. So exactly this subject is on the table and is on the agenda. This gives all the scope for the different political parties to give their views on this. I just want to encourage that. But that is different from asking the cabinet to come up with concrete initiatives, with all due respect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u194	Finally, Mr Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u195	One final comment. The Remkes Committee: fine. It's mostly about the government itself. This is about the public sector in a broad sense. I absolutely believe that several ministries have good intentions for this and also take initiative, but it is important to take a good look at this: what can we do about it fundamentally? Everyone in the Chamber actually agrees that something must be done. That seems very important to us, but we shall do so as a party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u196	In my opinion, the introduction and analysis of the Remkes Committee raises a broader question, about the gaps, about the feeling of distrust rather than trust, about the feeling of not being part of society. It is precisely these questions that are reflected in the introduction and analysis of the Remkes Committee. The first hundred pages, I'll say. That is a very fundamental analysis. I simply do not agree with Mr Smeulders on this. I think that this debate really needs to be held. Mr Jasper van Dijk's motion for a resolution 459 is about checking on the monthly income. I have already given an extensive response to this in my first term. I do not expect this to work, given the administrative burden and implementation technique. In addition, I have already said that there is an ibo on surcharges at the moment. It looks at how to make it less complex and streamlined. That's why I don't recommend the motion. She's partly redundant and partly I disagree.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u197	Mr President, I shall then take this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u198	At the request of Mr Jasper van Dijk, I propose his motion (24515, No. 459). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u199	In the motion in part No. 460 states: calls on the government to come forward with proposals to resolve the poverty trap. I used the word 'philosophical' once against Mr Van Rooijen. That still bothers me, but I have a philosophical problem with this. I agree that we need to reduce the poverty trap, that we need to reduce the marginal pressure. But the point is that in income-dependent schemes, you always have a reduction path and a poverty trap. So we can never solve it unless we decide not to provide income support, but nobody in this room wants that. So we can't solve it, but we can reduce it. We have taken a big step in the 2019 Tax Plan when it comes to the rent surcharge. In the ibo on surcharges, this has the attention of the cabinet, especially when it comes to the income path between the wml and modal, where this marginal pressure can now be very high. However, I do not think it is possible to resolve the matter, which is why I do not recommend the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u200	I can imagine. Then I propose that the word "solved" be replaced by the word "reduced."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u201	If that is the motion, Minister, what is your verdict?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u202	Then I have a second point. "Without income groups going backwards" is, in fact, philosophically impossible in any other way. The cabinet's really working on it. I am also seriously convinced that we still need to take steps in the coming period. Then it's about asking if how we make work pay more and that, if you go to work, you don't get a cut off again because you get less bonuses. This has a role in ibo part-time, in ibo supplements and in the discussion on the Tax Plan. But solving it without anyone getting any worse isn't gonna work. Because every time we adjust the fees, there are winners and losers, unless there's a really big bowl of money coming in. But it's not in this motion either. I think that Mr Jasper van Dijk and I agree, but I can only discourage this motion in this form.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u203	The motion continues to dissuade.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u204	My comment towards Mr Kuzu focused on the dual message. On the one hand, I understand his call to ensure that tensions in society do not increase but decrease. I think that we should pay enormous attention to this and we should also communicate layered about where things are going well with integration and with the position of people with a non-Western background in the labour market and in education. Nor should we close our eyes to things that go wrong, to the tensions that exist. The figures from the SCP show that it is about fears and images. That's right. We should not close our eyes to that either. Because those images are there, and those fears are there. Let's have the talk about that. Let's make it clear. Let's try to work this out. Then I don't believe in an all-overview vision. I believe in going to work step by step to make things better, whether it is about integration policy, the labour market or combating radicalisation. This is also how I fill in my ministerial duties in this area. In all these policy areas, we make things better step by step. That said, I would like this motion, in part No. 461, dissuade. There is already an enormous amount of research available on these images, on the views of different population groups about each other. A new investigation doesn't add anything to that. I would like to say that I find the tone of Mr Kuzu himself polarizing. That's what I said in the first term. But he's not here right now, so I can't have a nice debate about that anymore. Mr Heerma asks for a serious response to the treatment of the social state. I promised to come with a reaction before the summer, including the two disclaimers associated with it. I also understand his point that it is again about AIQ and gini's, that it is again about numbers before the people, rather than about the people behind the numbers. I very much agree with that. In my introduction I also said it: the Netherlands is doing very well, but that is about averages. There are, after all, major dividing lines. You can feel it every day in the public debate, as well as in the political debate. In all these areas, we also have a political responsibility to come up with solutions. The cabinet is also working on this in all these areas, fully aware that we cannot do it alone. Mr Heerma did not have any motions, but Mrs Van Brenn did. Mrs Van Brenk will send me the information on the client supporter and I will respond to that. The motion in part No. Ms Van Brenk's 462 calls on the government to take appropriate measures to further reduce poverty among workers and non-employed persons and to report to Princess Day on its progress. I think this motion is superfluous, because I have already indicated in my first term that we are taking action in various areas when it comes to taxes, surcharges and talks with the municipalities about access for working poor andzzp'ers. I have just said to Mr Gijs van Dijk that I want to inform the Chamber about the steps that have been taken before the summer. In my view, that would make the motion superfluous. I am therefore considering withdrawing it, because what I have been asked to do, I have actually promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u205	I'm willing to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u206	Since the Van Brenn motion (No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u207	Thank you. The motion in part No. Mrs Van Brenk's 463 calls on the government, together with the municipalities, to pay greater attention to the relevant group of workers within the framework of poverty and debt policy. I already promised. I have promised that I will inform the Chamber for the summer and that the Secretary of State will have an appointment with the municipalities in the first quarter of 2019 on precisely this issue with regard to both workers andzzp'ers. So this motion is also redundant.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u208	In this case, I want to see first and then believe. That's why I'm holding the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u209	I understand. I think that's fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u210	At the request of Mrs Van Brenn, I propose her motion (24515, No. 463). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u211	The Minister's assessment of the motion is not quite clear to me. Does that mean he's deceiving the motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u212	I can dissuade them because I've actually already promised. Then I come to the motion on part No. 464. I feel that this is a repetition of a debate we have had recently in the budget, in which I have already promised it. In fact, I brought to the attention of the chairman of the committee, Mr Hans Borstlap, that this is part of the analysis. This is also very obvious when you look at the question, namely how we deal with the risks of illness and disability for different groups of workers. So this motion has actually already been carried out. Mrs Van Brenk is therefore extremely effective.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u213	I can't believe I'm just gonna pull this off. Is the question really raised about a collective disability insurance scheme? Because that is the essence of this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u214	The question has been raised as to how to deal with ensuring the risks of sickness, disability and unemployment in the modern labour market, based on labour law, social security and taxation. As Mr Smeulders rightly said, the labour market is changing. That is what this is all about, and that includes a collective variant. There can also be a private variant. In any case, it has been left open and I have brought it to the attention of the chairman of the committee, Hans Borstlap. That committee is independent. It therefore seems undesirable to me that I should give all kinds of indications, precisely because we want an independent committee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u215	Then I'll take this motion on, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u216	That's good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u217	At the request of Mrs Van Brenk, I propose her motions (24515, Nos. 462 and 464). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u218	I would like to ask the Minister what his opinion is on this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u219	The motion has already been carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u220	Yeah, but I want...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u221	Then dissuade it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u222	Then you'll advise against the motion. Agreed. Then, I think, we came to the end of the Minister's speech in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u223	Sorry, sorry, Mr. Wiersma is still entitled to a response. He didn't have a motion, but he's not supposed to be skipped. I agree with Mr Wiersma on the example of De Broekriem and the example of Saints, where I recently visited with the Prime Minister. It is not just about helping ex-convicts to work, but also about the Craft Academy, on which Mr Heerma and Mr Wiersma tabled a motion for a resolution during the budget debate. I also see examples where the UWV appears on job days of political parties, which I then have to give permission for and what I like to do. So brainstorming, sure. Make it invisible, yeah. Actually, we do it all the time. If Mr Wiersma himself, as a Member of Parliament, has good ideas for a working visit, I would like to hear it from him and then we can get to work on it. That's how the Academy of Crafts started. That's great. That's how I do it myself with my work visits. That's great. Let's go through with that. Let's look for that creativity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u224	I'm not gonna brag about my good ideas, but there are a lot of good ideas in the country. My only appeal was that these ideas sometimes deserve a pat on the back. The minister can't all visit the places where these ideas are worked out, but maybe it's a nice idea if he just organises an open day and invites all those initiators to hear from them what they can do. I ask this because there are many more initiatives than the Minister has mentioned here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u225	This is a very sympathetic request from Mr Wiersma, but I am going to ask him a counter question: does Mr Wiersma have a list of interesting ideas which he would like to bring to my attention? Then I'm gonna take a serious look at that. I really like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u226	Sure. I think a lot of MPs have those ideas, too. It's, I think, quite nice to make the creativity that exists all over the country, all those people who do good things, even more visible. For the examples mentioned by the Minister have often been visited a thousand times by several Members of Parliament, by all of us. Sometimes we miss the beautiful gems that we have not yet discovered. My call is: Discover it!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u227	Mr Heerma rightly made the point: you don't know what you don't know. From that point of view, I think it's a very interesting idea. That's what I'm happy to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u228	Then we have come to the end of the debate. I would like to thank Members for their input and the Minister for their reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-01-23-tweedekamer-3.u229	The votes on the motions will take place next Tuesday.
