ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u1	The next item is the debate on the Proposal for a Law of Members Nijboer and Alkaya amending the Registration Act 1970 in connection with the establishment of a Central Shareholders' Register. Mr Nijboer and Mr Alkaya are present in what we call 'vaak-K', but also the Minister for Legal Protection and the Secretary of State for Finance. I would like to welcome both of you. Also a warm welcome to Mr Dirk Slieker, Ton Langenhuijzen, Rob Mollink and Hans Erkamp. They will support the initiators in answering the questions later. Many thanks for the supportive work.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u2	The questions are asked by the members of the House of Representatives. First, Mr Van der Linde will speak on behalf of the VVD Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u3	Mr. Chairman. I was somewhat surprised that this extensive work was picked up by the Secretary of State for Finance, but it was explained to me. At that time the Secretary of State for Finance, Mr Grapperhaus, signed the Registration Act in 1970. That is why we are discussing it with the Secretary of State today. Of course, I would have expected the current Minister of Justice to draw that honour, because what is more beautiful than treating a law of your own father? But I guess that's different. Mr. Chairman. Whoever reads the bill before us might think that this is a misreading of stock transactions in a blank or neglected notebook. I think the problem is bigger. We have of course recently been woken up again by the cowardly attack on a lawyer in Amsterdam. This underlines how much crime has infiltrated our daily lives. This also applies to the abuse of legal persons' rights. This means that we must work together on all fronts to combat crime, and that is also true of this point. In that respect, this law is actually very important. I have three questions for the initiators. The first is about the coincidence with the UBO register. This concerns a law dealing with the ultimate interested party of legal persons. That law will eventually be dealt with almost simultaneously with the current law. If I put these two laws side by side, I see a few overlaps, or actually I see a lot of overlaps. But I also see differences. That UBO register doesn't start until you have a 25% stake in a company, but that register brings with it foreign companies. I would ask the initiators to go into this overlap again, especially since we have important questions at the moment regarding the privacy aspects of the UBO register. I'm very curious to see how that works with this shareholder register. The second question concerns the role of the notary. I understand the frustration of notaries when they do get such a big deal again and see that in recent years there has been hardly any record of stock transactions, that it is all wrong and so on. But how am I supposed to see this role of the notary, especially in the light of the directive that EZ is now working on? This is about the digital creation of companies, where the notary will be largely out of the picture. I'd like to hear another response to that. A third point concerns the administrative burden associated with this legislative proposal. There is 2 million at once and then €700,000 a year. But, yes, those are the costs for the notary. This is not yet a question of the administrative burden on all companies that are going to have to make notifications and who, of course, will have to pay the notary again. I would like to suggest to the initiators that they should carry out an SME test on this. Mr. Chairman. A good bill is like a banana pudding. It's really nice to be working on it, but two banana puddings is a bit much. I am therefore very much insistent with the combination of this bill with the UBO register. I very much appreciate the initiators. If we didn't have the UBO register, I would probably have expressed my warm support for the bill in advance, but that's tricky now. I must also say that my appreciation extends to the reply in the note to the report, which was of very high quality. Nevertheless, I would like to suggest to the initiators that this bill should be retained for some time, and then to look at the UBO register to see if that UBO register is covering and whether any additions to this bill can be used. However, nevertheless: very much appreciation for the work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u4	An interruption by Mrs Leijten.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u5	It's always nice when colleagues take the initiative for a law. That's often a sign that the government's not doing anything. If you look at the history of this, that's pretty obvious. It was in 2010 that the Labour Party came up with an initiative paper, which took over the government, that there should be a central shareholder register. In 2014, an initiative paper from the SP was needed to encourage this. In 2015, the signal came from the Ministry of Justice that it all stopped for a while. Then the Labour Party and the SP said: yes, but then we're going to make it ourselves. Given that background I actually have a bit of a problem with the VVD's question to wait for a while. How exactly does the VVD view that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u6	Firstly, praise for the initiative, and also praise for the fact that the parties, perhaps against the current, have taken this initiative, with the warm support of the notaries, I know. That's really good. At the same time, this UBO register follows directly from a European directive against money laundering. We have to do it. That's why it's hard. You have a good bill in itself, one banana pudding, I'll say, and at the same time there's a bill coming from Europe that has to be implemented, and that almost overlaps. You've got to do something with that. At the same time, two overlapping laws do not seem to benefit the quality of legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u7	We have clearly asked in the written preparation of this law what the similarities and differences are between the register stating who the ultimate interested party is of money and possession, and this shareholder register. As you said, there are important similarities, but there are also important differences. In one case, the register of stakeholders goes a little further, in the case of foundations and foreign assets, but the central register of shareholders actually goes on when it is not about that 25%: if you own it, it says so. Wouldn't it be best, instead of asking for a moment to wait with this law, to say: let's pass this law, as a first step, and then use it as a driver for the government to implement that UBO registry, with this? That's gonna be one system. I think the notaries are pleased; the lawyers when it comes to company law are pleased. They all say: come up with this legislation, we want it. That could be a nice step towards that register, which we have been waiting for for three years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u8	I think it's a long way with Mrs Leijten. If we can try to cover the system by putting together something of this bill and something of the UBO register so that it gets better, that's fine. Just that UBO register has to run in January 2020 if I understand correctly. The bill's ready. Is it then very illogical to say: let's stop this for a moment, let's deal with the UBO register and let's see it in conjunction?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u9	Another question from Mr Snels... Faster. Sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u10	I'm not your group mate. Not yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u11	No, no. Faster.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u12	The question I have to Mr Van der Linde, Van der Linde, right? It's how it works if you want to get the system covered. One sits with the Chamber of Commerce and the other with the notary. Mr Van der Linde makes a gesture as if they could be integrated. How does he see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u13	That's part of the questions I'm asking right now. The notary has been given a role here. That should be the stock register. At the same time, we know that there is a directive on the digital creation of companies. So you have to ask yourself how logical the role of the notaries is. I like that answer, by the way. That the role of the notary in general is to increase quality, we quickly agree on that. But yeah, well... That is why I raised the question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u14	I believe that the search is broader in the Chamber, but Mr Van der Linde himself has ideas about it. Does he see, for example, the possibility of adjusting the UBO register?That law we are going to deal with so that it becomes more covering and it ends up in one place?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u15	I am very open to suggestions on that point. My idea would be to use the UBO register, which is prescribed, as a starting point, of course. By the way, I really do have some nuts to crack in there about the privacy of, for example, entrepreneurs. Because at the moment it is really not contained in the bill on the UBO register that I have seen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u16	Thank you for your answers and your input. Mr Ronnes has the floor on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, I would like to thank the initiators for all the work they have put into this initiative proposal. I can only say that this is a sound proposal which has dealt seriously with questions from this Chamber, including questions from my party. Must have been a lot of work in there. Let me say first of all that the initiators find me on their side when they talk about combating financial and economic crime. Transparency is increasingly important both in the prevention and in the fight against such crime. We are seeing similar developments internationally, for example in rules in the recent Anti-Money Laundering Directive. Much is happening in this area. Transparency in companies is moving a lot. There is a potential for a build-up of measures with undesirable effects. That is why I still have a few questions for the initiators about their bill. Mr. Chairman. Some of my questions concern the usefulness of the legislative proposal in relation to the existing registration system and the UBO register to be introduced. The initiators outline that the reason for this bill is that the self-registration of companies, if I may call it that, is currently inadequate. They receive that signal from notaries. That raises the question of why the initiators are not proposing to do something about it. In the explanatory memorandum, the initiators do address the question of how this bill relates to company shareholders' registers, but in my opinion there is no discussion of the scenario of tighter enforcement of company shareholders' registers. If we do that, we won't reinvent the wheel. There is therefore no question of a central register, because it can then be arranged on a decentralised basis. I'd like to get a reaction from the initiators. Why isn't this an option for them? Mr. Chairman. I am also curious about the reaction of the initiators to the advice of the cabinet. After reading the Minister's response, I must say that I do appreciate the advice of first looking at how the UBO register is going to work. In many respects, the UBO register extends further and will impose all kinds of new obligations on practice. Do the initiators share that it is wiser not to allow this route to run parallel to it? If not, I would like to hear why not, not least because, in addition to the risk of regulatory overlap, there is a risk that additional costs will be incurred. As a result, the question arises how the initiators can see the developments surrounding the creation of companies online. A European directive requires people to be able to set up online businesses. It is not clear whether this will go through the notary. If this does not go through the notary, this will also cause problems in the proposed establishment of the shareholder register, because it depends on the role of the notary. Can the initiators indicate how they see their bill in relation to these developments? Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask the authors to go into something more specific about those who will have access to the register and, in particular, the Wwft institutions. Another question about the accessibility of the register is how to keep track of who is looking in the register. How is it handled? Will there be a system that logs who checked the system? There are a few questions of a more diverse nature, starting with a question about funding. In the written round, my party had some reservations about the level of the costs outlined. This is reflected in the cabinet's opinion on the bill. Are the initiators, also in view of the cabinet advice, prepared to go into more detail about the exact cost of the bill? On what basis is the EUR 2 million mentioned by the proposers? The initiators indicate that the information should not be shared simply with the investigation services and other jurisdictions. How am I supposed to explain this? It is well known that information from the UBO register may be used in a European context, subject to certain conditions. Are the initiators thinking of such an option in this case too? Finally, I come to the monitoring of the register. Do I understand correctly that the initiators want the Financial Supervision Office to have the task of checking the proper functioning of the shareholder register? Have the initiators entered into consultation with the BFT? What impact will this have on the tasks of the FTT, as it will be a task extension? So much for my first term, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u18	Thank you very much. There is another interruption by Mrs Leijten, so if you will stand still.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u19	Unlike the VVD, who felt a bit about the proposal, but who didn't like the combination, I see that the CDA doesn't really want the proposal. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u20	No, that's not the essence. There are certainly good aspects in the proposal, but we are concerned about the accumulation of the systems that we create alongside each other, namely this one and later that of the UBO register. We would like to look again at how these overlaps overlap. With that I kind of agree with what my predecessor of the VVD said. Shouldn't you be looking more closely at the moment you implement the mandatory part, namely the UBO register, which you still miss when it comes to this register?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u21	But you can turn that around, can't you? You can say: this is a step after that? The history of this bill is that until this bill was passed in 2017, something was promised for seven years, but not done. How does Mr Ronnes look at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u22	That would be the case when the UBO register was still something very far away, but the implementation date of the UBO register is close. The consultation's over. So we are curious when the Minister will finally come to the Chamber with the proposal. But the fact that it has to be done is a fact. There is no point in adopting this proposal at the moment and then finding out for a few weeks afterwards that the UBO register is there, because that would be the doubling and parallel flows.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u23	Thank you for your answers and input. Mr Mulder has the floor on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u24	Mr. Chairman. Firstly, I would like to thank my two colleagues for the work they have put into this proposal and to congratulate my group on exercising their rights as co-legislator. Mr. Chairman. There is a lot going on in the Netherlands in recent days in the areas of financial fraud, drug crime, care fraud, VAT carousel fraud and the mixing of the underworld and the upperworld. Then, of course, we also have 'normal' bankruptcy fraud. That sounds very common between all these other concepts, but for a lot of SME entrepreneurs this has been a huge problem for a long time. Strangely enough, these cases often have to do with the lack of information on changes in ownership of shares. According to the PVV, this proposal provides valuable information in the context of the fight against fraud. Mr. Chairman. The simple fact that the Netherlands is also setting up a UBO register makes no difference to the PVV in the assessment of this proposal. In fact, we see it as an advantage. The UBO register has a number of weaknesses, for example that the information comes from entrepreneurs and shareholders themselves and that minority shareholders remain invisible. This register complements things nicely. I would like to conclude with a few questions. Excuse me, some of them are already set. I'll try to filter it out. They mainly concern the safety of shareholders. As a starting point, we continue to use the fact that this shareholder register is not of a public nature. Question 1 is then: how can criminals and action groups be prevented from taking advantage of the information contained in this register? An example of this is that you have shares in an oil company, after which a few silly ones come screaming in front of your house. How can we prevent that? Question 2 follows on from this: how can we prevent so many groups from accessing the register that it actually becomes a kind of public register? We can start with a number of groups, but if we, as legislators, decide that every second-hand car salesman will have to report sales transactions, we will go a long way. So how do the initiators narrow down the number of institutions, even towards the future? Part of it was already asked by the CDA how it is possible to register something. I think it is technical to see who is asking when, so that this can be looked back afterwards and it can be proven whether someone has handled that information properly. Finally, we would like to support the statement that this register provides money rather than costs money. Mr. Chairman. We are, of course, waiting for the further debate and the answers, but we are careful to say that it seems that this register can help to protect our rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u25	Thank you. Mr Snels, on behalf of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I know how much fun it is to make initiative laws and how much fun it is to be in V-K. At the same time, I know it's incredibly much work to do. I would like to express my appreciation to the initiators and the staff. I think it's a nice picture that MPs and employees are in trade-K and the cabinet is in a more modest place on the side of trade-K. A number of Members have already said that we have homework to do to see how we can increase the effectiveness of crime and financial crime. From the point of view of effectiveness and efficiency, the Centraal Shareholders Register Initiative Act cannot of course be separated from the UBO register that will enter into force in 2020. A number of Members have already mentioned this. Looks like it's wringing. Isn't it a double job? My group believes that this is a little too simple. I would like to mention three points on which the initiative law could complement the UBO. Firstly, the question is how reliable the UBO information is going to be, because the ultimate beneficial owners themselves have to indicate what their ultimate economic interest is. The initiative law seems to address this by relying on notarial acts. Secondly, GroenLinks wonders whether the UBO register is not going to overlook a significant part of the crime, as it only focuses on natural persons with an interest greater than 25%. In the absence of a minimum interest, the initiative law also seems to address this gap. Thirdly, it snows quite often that the initiative law can not only help the fight against crime but also help notaries greatly in their daily work. As the notaries themselves wrote to the Chamber in an organised context, legal acts of unlisted nvs and e.g. are often unnecessarily time-consuming, simply because pieces appear to be missing. Mr President, from these considerations I have a number of questions to the cabinet and a number of questions to the initiators. First of all, the questions to the cabinet. Firstly, I do not read in the cabinet letter about the added value that the shareholder register will have for notaries. At the same time, this cabinet is proud of its commitment to policy-making with sectors. So why is it now the advice of the notaries in the wind? I'd like a response. Secondly, the cabinet is opposed to the shareholders' register because the system should be in the Chamber of Commerce, not with notaries but with the Trade Register. The shareholders' register would therefore create additional burdens. How does the cabinet view the red tape argument when it is taken into account that the Royal Notarial Professional Organisation already has the digital infrastructure, where the shareholder register can be rolled on top of it quite efficiently? Thirdly, the cabinet also states that we must wait with the shareholders' register because the process of establishing companies will soon be digitally and thus easier to regulate. My question to the cabinet is how this undermines the desirability of the shareholders' register. The notaries, whether digital or not, are still simply the gatekeeper of legal acts? Mr President, a few questions to the initiators. In their explanatory statement, the initiators state that it is "sometimes difficult to find out who is behind these structures or structures" for public services engaged in control, supervision, enforcement and detection. Can the initiators indicate exactly how big this problem of "sometimes difficult" is? Is there any record of that? How could the shareholders' register improve in this respect? I am also curious how the initiators themselves look at the possible integration of the shareholders' register and the UBO. A number of questions have already been asked about this. I am very interested in the response of the initiators themselves. Finally, I wonder if the initiators can support the cost picture. As a financial spokesman, I'm always interested in that. Can they say whether it is about one-off investments or fixed costs? I'm curious to hear the answers. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u27	Thank you for your input. Mrs Leijten has the floor on behalf of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u28	Mr. Chairman. We live in special times. On 18 September last, the Financial Times, which we know as a capitalist newspaper, headlined on the front page: Capitalism, time for reset. In good Dutch: it is time to reinvent capitalism, it is time for something else. This summer, the Business Roundtable met. Those are the hyper-rich of the US, you know, the 0.1% of the population who owns more than half of the United States' property and who said that it should actually go a different way with the economy. It should no longer be just about shareholder value. Consideration should be given to how employees and the environment can benefit from the profits, which are actually only in the pocket of a few. Here in the House of Representatives we saw during the General Reviews we were told with our mouths that there is still the end of neoliberalism. I've heard that different here in the Chamber. How many times have I heard in recent years that we saw it all wrong? There was no other solution than all power to the market. If you do your best, you'll always be rich. And tax avoidance is absolutely necessary for our locational environment. Every time we pointed out that these same tax avoidance arrangements were used for crime, money laundering and bankruptcy fraud, they were somewhat removed. After the Panama Papers, we have no choice. A lot of lawyers, fiscalists, notaries and actually the whole polluting industry on the Zuidas already knew that you can build constructions that can cover up all your possessions and do the craziest things. You can rob money away from the tax authorities through these constructions, but you can also finance crime, money laundering or terrorism. We are now convinced, including in this Chamber, that we must do something about this. The VVD finds it difficult and the CDA takes a very careful step, but the rest of the Chamber is actually over. Even the PVV says it is in favour of measures to tackle tax avoidance, if Europe does not. Then let us make sure that we do it ourselves, or do it worldwide. The fact that we live in special times also shows this bill. I would like to congratulate the authors of the bill on their work and commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u29	You will be interrupted by Mr Van der Linde.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u30	I think Mrs Leijten would be disappointed if I did not interrupt on this point. I appreciate her attempt to put aside the free market economy, a superior system, right away, but I do not see what this has to do with it. The Business Roundtable is about large listed companies, while we are talking here about the patties of e.g. and small unlisted public limited companies. I don't quite see the connection.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u31	I can see the connection very clearly. The fact that you do not see it shows that you may not have arrived at the point where the CDA, the Christian Union and perhaps also the PVV have arrived: that the idea that money and possession in the hands of some will lead to prosperity for all is not true Friedman's famous trickle-down model. That's what the world is waking up to right now. I also want Mr Van der Linde to wake up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u32	I sometimes have conversations with colleagues from the Christian Union or the SGP about faith. They'll be about the same lines. At some point, you have to wake up to see certain things. However, my question was what this argument and the registering of stock transactions, whether or not in a notebook, have to do with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u33	The moment you know who owns what and how property is handled, you can also see what happens to it. The VVD never thought that was so important. Everything was about locational climate and making businesses look good. If a few are rich, then this benefits the economy and thus everyone. Mr Van der Linde still has to say goodbye to this neoliberal idea. We do not need to do that, because we have always seen the black side of it. In this initiative towards the shareholders' register, we see an exciting role for the MPs of the Labour Party and the SP to wake up the government that is not yet fully awake.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u34	It's gonna be a good night anyway. Something was discussed at the SP sometime at the end of last week or at the beginning of this week, because at the General Financial Reviews we first got a very general story, which was just not concluded with "the International" and "socialism overcame," but the whole structure of the story looked very similar. This story is actually the same again. Just for the three viewers who are still watching: as PVV we would like to make the mistakes out of the current system. We want to improve a great deal, but we certainly do not want a dogmatic socialist policy. You'll still be alone in that. To complete the trio: yesterday we also had a debate here on insurance and consultation in the Health Insurance Act. That's where your colleague came up with the story: connect now, because it doesn't work! Nationalize the whole thing! No, we're not for that. We are looking at the Health Insurance Act and we want to make the mistakes out of it, we want to improve it, but we do not want to nationalise it. We want to make the mistakes of the current system, and that is why we want this shareholder register, because we believe that we can improve a number of things, but we do not want to change the whole society. You knew that, but that's what I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u35	I'm so glad I heard that again. We have never believed in the idea that at the moment when a few do everything or the market does everything, the general interest is served, because profit maximization is at the forefront and it goes to a few and not to everyone. We have been consistently right about this. You may not be in favour of the final solution of the SP........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ I like that. But actually, I had arrived at my appreciation of the bill. I congratulated my colleagues on picking up something that the government has left behind. In 2010, Mr. De Groot wrote an own-initiative paper to a former colleague sitting in the back. He said that there should be a central shareholder register to tackle, among other things, bankruptcy fraud. The government promised to do that, but it stayed quiet. In 2014, my former colleague, Mrs Gesthuizen, took the initiative of an initiative note, also against criminal money laundering, by adding access to the shareholders' register in the Financial Transactions Act. The cabinet said again: no, wait a minute, we're coming. A year later, that was gone again. How does the Minister of Justice look back on that? Is the Ministry of Justice proud of how that has been put off in recent years? Why did that happen? The honourable Member of the VVD rightly pointed out that this is also an instrument in the hands of the investigation services to deal with organised drug crime and to investigate these flows. Why did you look away from that now? Today Corps Chief Akerboom said it was zigzag policy. The minister's colleague didn't want to take it over at the same ministry. He said there hasn't been enough attention to organized drug crime. I think it would be a good thing to say: in the Cabinet, but not in the Chamber. Well, there was a lot of attention to that. In the time between this initiative and the legislative proposal, a lot of things have changed. We want to know much more about who owns the property. Bearer shares, where it is not at all clear who they are, are prohibited in the Netherlands. The government is now seriously working on a register of stakeholders. That has been tabled, I would say to Mr Ronnes, but the treatment is completely silent because everyone disagrees on how to proceed. I think you should say that this shareholder registry is a first step. I would also like to ask the authors how they see that first step. Do they see opportunities for where there are differences, for where it is now invested and for how it is registered? Is it an obstacle, for example, if successive laws on digitisation do not involve the notary and come to the Chamber of Commerce? I don't think that's an obstacle. You can take care of that. It has now been administered by the notaries, and that could also be done by the Chamber of Commerce. Perhaps you could turn that around with the UBO register again, but it is no reason not to do so now. That is why I ask the government to respond to this. We must have implemented the UBO register by 2020, but that is not going to happen. This bill may be in force by 2020 or at least have been adopted in this Chamber. Why can't the government see this as a stepping stone? Why is it considered another obstacle? I am in politics long enough to know that if one doesn't want something, there are always legal things or things in time being sought as obstacles to doing something not. I'm really sorry about that. That is why I am not asking the initiators to stop doing so. I wish them every success in replying to the first term of office. But I really hope that the government can see this as an incentive to nine years of nine years of nine years! After a commitment to finally do something. Embrace this proposal of two opposition parties in this case, but if I understood the VVD correctly, they could have been wrong about this, even though it is now a bit difficult in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u36	I think Mrs Leijten is walking around here long enough to know that this performance is a little more complex than saying: you put it somewhere and if it doesn't work, you put it somewhere else. So I wonder how she would see it exactly if we were to introduce it as quickly as possible and then the other thing next to it. How does it work in person?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u37	Let's look at how there has been a response in the field by those involved, such as the notaries and the Order of Lawyers. In fact, everyone has responded joyfully. They have also all said that they would like to think about the layout of this register. In that sense, it also comes a bit from the bottom up. I think you can say very well: please bear in mind that your digitalisation could add to that. You could also say that this could also be carried out by another party in the future. I think you can do that very well, as long as you don't make it too complicated. And you know, I think this is a proposal that you see when the initiativers started working on it, the field said: we know a good way to do it. That's taken over. That is perhaps a more practical way than how it usually happens in ministries.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u38	Mrs Leijten is better at this matter than I am. Part of the argument is correct: put it with the notary, because they already have something to do with it. But if we digitize it first, is it not so easy to separate it from the notary where it is deposited?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u39	I meant by "digitalize" the following. Several questions have been asked about that. They asked: there will soon be a digital shareholdership; does this not hinder each other? You have to bear in mind that that's coming and needs to fit in. I think that makes sense. If the information is now with the notaries, then that's the reasoning to do it there, then that's a very logical step. There may be an overlap with the UBO register. It's coming from the Chamber of Commerce. The government says: that makes sense, because there is already most information. That's what I'm wondering, by the way. I wonder, but well, I've changed that with the Secretary of State before. But if there's any overlap with that UBO registry, then you can see how that could become a combined system? That can be taken into account, can't it? I don't see why you're putting that up as an obstacle, when you say that this is an addition to what we have now, because we want to tackle this organized drug crime, because we want to tackle this bankruptcy fraud and because we want to make the structures that are being built to keep money out of the sight of the tax authorities, the FIOD and the investigation services finally visible. If that's what you want, there's a way out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u40	Thank you for your input. It is now time for Mrs Kuik, who will speak on behalf of the Labour Party. Sorry, excuse me! I'm going to fix it, because it's Mr. Sneller's turn. I was too fast. That gives Mrs. Kuik some extra time. Mr. Sneller.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u41	Saved by the delayed helpline. Mr. Chairman. Perhaps then I may receive from Mrs Leijten the other version of the explanatory statement, because all the considerations about how this meant the end of capitalism have not been entirely taken out of the answer so far. But my compliments to the initiators, the supporters and the predecessors present; I saw that the bill has a long history.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u42	That was a little entrapment. Mrs. Leijten, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u43	I was excited about the dawn of times when the idea that the economy will be in the hands of a few prosperity for all is really coming to an end. I understand that my enthusiasm that this is acknowledged is interpreted by others as if I would think capitalism is now at an end. No, it takes a lot of fighting to do that. And I will certainly fight that battle, but at least we live in a special time. I just wanted to sketch that out. After that, I gave a clear answer to the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u44	Special times they are. It is particularly nice to see Mr Langenhuijzen, with whom I have been able to sit in the back benches on an initiative proposal. Mr Alkaya and Mr Nijboer also have an important theme. It's already been sketched out. Money laundering, terrorist financing, tax avoidance and other forms of financial and economic crime have been on the agenda again in recent weeks and months. Perhaps the initiators had a bit of a forward-looking view, because they already asked a lot of attention in 2010 and 2014. This week there was one of the largest finds of cash in the Netherlands. This bill is not necessarily going to do something about it, but it does show how big the problem is and that there is a broader need to know who the stakeholders behind legal entities are. At least that's in the air. I fully understand the desire of the initiators and the parties that have contributed to this, to keep it in the air as a means of pressure, especially in view of the delay and what has been forecast in the past but has not come. However, I would like to ask the initiators to take a more specific approach to complementarity. They describe it theoretically well, but I would like to know, for example, on the basis of a number of cases in which it is really useful that this exists next to it. Broad comments have been made on how these two can complement each other, but it has also been said that the overlap is unfortunate and that it is also unfortunate to accommodate different implementation organisations, if I may put it that way. Can there not be an attempt to see with the people who are now present as advisors how we can achieve that reach, that coverage, in a different way? I actually ask the cabinet that question. I also expected the Minister of Finance to sign the UBO, but he is not here. Also not present is the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs, who does sign it. Fortunately, there are two other directors present, but they do not sign the UBO. In any case, it gives us a difficult understanding of the coordination. How does the cabinet see the complementarity? The written response we have received does not necessarily address the added value, which could be there. That's what I like to hear. The UBO must be operational 10 January 2020. Suddenly that is very specific if it is not by the House of Representatives. I ask the cabinet if it is indeed ready to enter into force. When do they foresee that we can deal with it here? What added value do they see?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u45	I have already asked the other coalition parties: shouldn't you see it as a first step? I also asked the government and the proposers how you could make this happen later in an UBO or at least make it complementary. Why am I asking? We have already expressed our opinion on the UBO register on 29 May. 29 June, 29 July, 29 August, 29 September: we have been waiting four months for what the cabinet will do. And now we must ask the initiators of the Chamber, who have been working on it for nine years, to wait for the Cabinet? That's kind of weird, isn't it? Doesn't D66 agree?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u46	It concerns me, the initiators and the cabinet for the final result. I think that is also true of Mrs Leijten. The point is that there will be as much coverage as possible. We can pass this bill. We can send it to the First Chamber. But it has not been introduced, when it is said about the UBO that it should be operational 10 January 2020. So I assume that all the preparatory actions have also been carried out and then actually have them. And as I was just saying to Mrs Leijten by interrupting, I think she is thinking a little too easily about the implementation. I think she thinks we'll be able to figure out how to bring it together later. Let's think about that now. Hence my request to the initiators and the cabinet to respond to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u47	I am very surprised that my colleague from D66 here says that a system is already being created, so it will be in the air on 10 January 2020. That hasn't even been discussed here. That would happen when we haven't even received answers to all the questions, and before this House of Representatives and the Upper House have spoken. If, apparently, a system is already being created by the government, if that is going on, then I find it completely crazy to ask the initiative-legislators to wait.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u48	I have received the same written reply from the cabinet as Mrs Leijten. I take it from that that it should be in effect on 10 January next year. If a law is passed here and it then takes a very long time for implementation to be truly operational, then our reproach is to the cabinet: why did you not take preparatory action before, so that it could actually enter into force quickly? But if I'm wrong, if nothing's happened yet, I'd like to hear it from the cabinet. Then I would almost say, Mrs Leijten: let us encourage them to at least make sure that something is prepared. Then there's the cost. I don't think we should want to do it cheaply on the one hand. It's about privacy-sensitive information. The cabinet is right to ask the initiators to give a little more clarity about the design and use they see for themselves, in order to make that cost assessment. Maybe they could go into that more closely? At the same time, and that is what Mr Ronnes outlined in his speech, I ask how much money is involved in this. I also ask the cabinet, which makes a big point of these costs, how this relates to the extent of the financial economic crime we are talking about here. Whether it's 7 tons or 1.1 million, so to speak? If in one week 12.4 million is found in cash and there are so many millions/billions in it? Then one final question about privacy. How exactly do the initiators see access to the privacy sensitive information? They want this to be determined by general measure of governance, but perhaps they have some more concrete ideas themselves. Then it is not just about which organisations, but also about which people in them. Because we are going to re-establish a register that is sensitive to that. And indeed the questions that I have already asked by interruption and which have already been asked by others: can the initiators further justify why exactly they have chosen the Royal Notarial Professional Organisation? And how easy do they think it would be for them to move that back to another place as it would be for uniting and bringing it together in one place?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u49	Thank you very much. I see that there is one last interruption by Mrs Leijten. So you're gonna have to stand still for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u50	With my limited insight: what answer does Mr Sneller take to ensure that it is operational 10 January 2020? According to my records, asking our questions is the last thing we've done. That was May 29th.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u51	As part of this legislative proposal, a letter has recently been issued saying that there is also a UBO register that must be operational 10 January 2020. I think that'must have entered into force' is the literal wording. That was also the letter I referred to, which was signed by, among other things, the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u52	Okay. I for a moment overlooked the fact that it was in that letter. But then my question to D66 still stands. Then it's weird that we don't have an answer after four months. There has not yet been a parliamentary majority here, nor in the First Chamber, which has said: go ahead with the UBO register. But they're building it. At the same time, we say to two legislators of initiative: wait a minute. That's weird, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u53	What I find strange is that, if something is a European obligation that has been there for so long, we will only have parliamentary treatment so late, when the implementation deadline is so close. But that's what I just outlined. What I do not find strange is that in the meantime preparatory actions are being taken at technical level to ensure that it can be introduced when it is legally there. Especially since it is a European obligation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u54	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u55	This European obligation does not state that it should be invested in the Chamber of Commerce. So let's say that we would say here as a Chamber: we are adopting this bill and we are instructing the government to have the UBO register attached to it. Well, then you can, can't you? Then that's our parliamentary right, isn't it? Now we're waiting for a system that we don't know what it's going to look like, with an answer somewhere in the air or between ministries or between coalition parties, and then we tell the initiators to wait. That's weird, isn't it? We could now also give the order here: if you wait, it will all go as Mr Nijboer and Mr Alkaya point out. The central shareholder register will then also determine the size of the UBO register.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u56	I didn't ask the initiators to wait. I asked the initiators: is it still possible to go into consultation with the cabinet, so that we could arrange this properly at the front?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u57	Thank you. Finally, Mrs Kuik has the floor on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u58	Mr. Chairman. I too would like to begin by congratulating the authors of the initiative proposal, as well as the officials of the Legislative Bureau, as well as, of course, all the external advisers and our staff. It's always a lot of work and it's always grateful to do. But you've got to get this far. It has a long history. Mr Groot is in the Chamber. I asked him very specifically: it is indeed eight years since he took the first steps towards this initiative. It's nice that it's gotten into this now. The fact that it started eight years ago does not mean that it is less topical, because financial fraud really is a huge problem. Nowhere does the underground and the upper world come together as in the financial fraud and also as in the Netherlands. The author of the book Gomorra, who has been researching the Mafia practices in Naples for many years, therefore said not without reason: your biggest problem is the fact that the Netherlands is so financially attractive to commit all kinds of things that the outside world cannot actually tolerate, but it is increasingly touching the outside world and the upper world. That makes this a very up-to-date bill. It is extremely important to help fight this fraud. It shall accurately identify who is a shareholder and which company is a shareholder. This way evil people can no longer hide. It accelerates detection and I would therefore hope that it will be introduced quickly. The cabinet considers the UBO register sufficient, but only looks at the top of the business Christmas tree, while there are so many fragmented interests that you should look at the whole sector. Not a market over safety, but actually doing what has been constantly being preached in recent weeks. You cannot say: we want to act effectively for safety, but always consider the market interest more important. You can't put all kinds of other interests, from the Chamber of Commerce or all that's complicated, every time above the importance of security. This bill will help with that. In addition: is it logical to say that you are allowed to register as a criminal or criminal? Isn't that what independent supervision is all about? I think that this bill is well intertwined. That's why I'm starting questions to the cabinet as an advisor on this bill. My first question to the cabinet: why does the cabinet not take this bill with both hands? It doesn't bite the UBO register and it can reinforce each other. Precisely because we see that the fight against financial fraud and organised crime needs an extra fist, I think this can be a welcome addition. In my opinion, it is not a call that comes out of the mind of a brilliant man, but a call that comes out of the sector itself. Notaries indicated that they couldn't control properly, knowing things weren't right. Lawyers are asking for it. The security world is asking for it, because they see it's necessary. That is my first question to the cabinet: take this with both hands and, if not, why not? My question to the cabinet is also whether the cabinet thinks it is logical that we should take the principle of 'the butcher approves his own meat'. That's what actually happens. You're facilitating a criminal to register himself. That doesn't make any sense at all, does it? Wouldn't it be much more independent and practical if an independent notary did? I'd like a response from the cabinet. As I said, I think this bill could be a valuable addition to the UBO register. Of course, I also have a number of questions for the authors. A few legitimate questions have been asked. Privacy is brought forward very much by the VVD, while that usually goes a bit differently. So that's great! But these are fair questions, because who exactly gets access to the register and how is the balance between functionality and privacy monitored? How are we to prevent this from happening? That is my second question: is the register being evaded? My third question is: the register is filled after each transaction; so it takes a while before it is complete. Can the proposers indicate how this process can be done more quickly, so that it can be completed more quickly? My final question is supplementary, because Mrs Leijten has already said it very expressively. Lawyers and notaries clearly state that it is necessary, but I am very curious to see what the public prosecutor thinks of this proposal. I haven't heard that yet. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. Again, my compliments. In recent weeks, more than ever, it has been shown that it is actually five past twelve when it comes to the fight against organised crime and the fight against financial crime. They are not white criminals who carry out these kinds of practices, they are serious criminals, heavy criminals, who use our loopholes in legislation. The Netherlands is attractive, because we can act well, but also attractive because we offer so many financial facilities. In some countries around us, we are not only seen as a country with great drug freedom, because this too is a very important element. Let us learn from that and from the past few weeks and take this bill with both hands! It seems very valuable to me. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u59	One quick question. Mrs Kuik said at one point: how can this register be avoided? So what's she thinking about herself, and what else would we have to do to close that hole?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u60	Well... I think it's conclusive, but you should never forget that where laws or registers are made, there are always opportunities for gaps. That's just what I want to know. I think that is a very logical question when a new legislative proposal is tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u61	Me too. I think it's a very good question, too. Mrs Kuik is the first to ask him, but perhaps she already has something in mind that we can think about ourselves for the next treatment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u62	Well, I find it odd that I ask him, because it would have been one of my questions to the proposers. When you make a bill, it's always critical. Have you thought about this? Have you thought about that? I'm thinking, well, let's say it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u63	Nice dualism within the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u64	Sure. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Chicken. This brings us to the end of the first term of the Chamber of the treatment of the Central Shareholder Register Act. That is why we have also voted on this law for today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-03-tweedekamer-11.u66	At a later date, we will continue the debate on this law. I thank the authors, their support, the rulers and the Chamber for their input. I'm closing the meeting.
