ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-34.u1	The next item is the Amendment to the Media Act 2008 extending the current concession and recognition of the national public media service by one year, known under Chamber number 35268.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-34.u2	From the Chamber's side, one speaker initially spoke with speaking time. A second speaker may be added. I am the first to give the floor to Mr Bosma, who has registered for 15 minutes, so we are going to listen to you. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-34.u3	Yes, but it could be longer, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for being so kind to sit in front of this, despite this almost midnight hour. Thank you for letting the previous debate run out a little bit, so that people could first take a look at Ajax's game and that millions of people can now engage in this crucial debate. I appreciate that very much. It is a happy fact: it is the first time that Minister Slob has sent something to the Chamber in the field of media. I wasn't gonna let that pass. He didn't just send anything to the Chamber. We've had some letters from him, but now it's really something substantial, a real change of law. Greetings, I'd say. The farewell reception of the minister is almost in sight, but he still comes up with a real change of law, with an explanation of no less than four pages. A fine yield of two and a half years of ministry, I'd say. Go ahead, Arie, I hope you didn't overwork; after all, a burnout just got like that. Shocking that there is so little interest on the part of the Chamber. I am glad that Mr El Yassini is carrying out his constitutional duties today. A deep bow in his direction, Mr. Chairman. It is a budget of EUR 850 million and it is the task of the House of Representatives to monitor its use and control the government. Then, for the first time, we get something from this cabinet, a piece of legislation, and then no one is there, again except Mr El Yassini. Only the PVV and the VVD seem to want to control the government, the rest is probably in a talk program at the state broadcasting shining and licking the presenter. The essence of this legislative amendment concerns the reduction of the minimum number of members for a broadcaster. That goes from 150,000 to 50,000. That is in line with clearing the distinction between the A, B and C broadcasters we used to have. Once you had to have 400,000 members to become an A broadcast, now the limit for the big broadcasters has already been reduced to a lousy 300,000 and the bar goes lower and lower and lower. I think that's weird. I've been allowed to be media spokesperson for my party for 13 years now. Minister Slob is my fourth minister. Plasterk, Van Bijsterveldt and Sander Dekker preceded him. And all these ministers started all their debates with the same gray record: about the great legitimacy of the broadcasting system. And what does that tell us? This is evident from the number of members of these broadcasters. That was millions of people together, and that proved to be the basis for the broadcasting system. Is that still the Minister's opinion? If so, why should the threshold be lower and lower? Members disappear by tens of thousands at a time. Does the Minister also know the investigation that revealed that 10% of the members are dead on further investigation? Would the Minister care to pull the dust comb through all those claims of members? Just ring the doorbell to the next of kin. The second identification of all these broadcasters would be their contribution to diversity. They would reflect Dutch society; so the ancient pillars. But ten years ago I asked CDA media spokesperson Joop Atsma if he could give an example of the Catholic of the KRO. He couldn't. I get that. There is also nothing Catholic about the KRO and then they are also merged with the descendants of Maarten Luther. Then what's your identity? These merger broadcasters are now profiling themselves with words such as curious and groundbreaking, or whatever texts their marketing agency provided on that day. They're all organizations looking for a reason for existence, for a reason for subsidy. Then there's another network. Can the Minister explain to me, for example, what BNNVARA stands for? Socialists merging with young people or something? Insofar as the programmes still had some identity, they are all flattered by the NPO's station coordinators and genre coordinators who make it a great politically correct unitary sausage with a lot of talk about the climate, that there is a lot of racism, that there are 278 genders and that Trump is a second Hitler. In short, a bit of the ideas of D66. And then Peter R. de Vries added. We're gonna have to take the money anyway. And what exactly do all these broadcasters add? That question is important, because with this change of law the Minister proves that he wants to continue with these broadcasting associations instead of saying: it has been beautiful, you are almost 100 years old, time for a piece of involuntary euthanasia. In fact, the Minister wants to give these clubs more power in the new concession law. Is my impression correct that the media ideas of this minister can be summarized in two letters, the letter E and the letter O? The whole thing with the broadcasting organizations is costing taxpayers money. It is terribly cumbersome and leads to infinite office politics, meetings, coordination, coordination, even more meetings, even more coordination, and even more coordination. You can't give it to your worst enemy, the snake pit of the Media Park. There is therefore no transparency whatsoever. No one really knows where the money is, except in the pockets of a few handy guys who are committed to connection and inclusion, who enjoy their left-wing privileges in their Porsches and Maserati's. It's a bizarre construction. Broadcasting associations are private organisations operating within the public domain. These associations together have reserves of more than EUR 200 million. That money belongs to them. No one can do that, but they've earned that money in an environment funded by taxpayers' money. It's weird. And take a look around Hilversum. It's full of expensive, colossal villas. The associations were able to buy these thanks to the taxpayer, but the taxpayer has nothing to say about it at all. And how does all that work in practice? The Court of Auditors was so kind as to present a report today that I am right to prove more than I could have imagined for the past 13 years. It's a disenchanting report. A few examples. Floorie Dessing, who spends the whole year in an airplane for a better climate, creates a program for BNNVARA and shows her how she works on her flight shame. And then she thought, "You know what, I'm just gonna put that program in my own production, for instance." Of course, she paid particular attention to the importance of the environment and polar bears. After all, she's a real idealist. But suddenly the programme had become 40% more expensive than before. Graaisham doesn't know the left man. But no problem, the taxpayer does draw the wallet, or rather, Minister Slob draws the taxpayer's wallet, or rather, he rolls it, because the NPO just gets 40 million. Especially at the VARA, the PvdA network, they know how to find the way to the cash register. VARA stands for Association Workers Radio Amateurs. And there Matthijs van Nieuwkerk uses a similar trick. When he took over the program College Tour from Twan Huys, he demanded that the production be transferred to Medialane, a company owned by a friend of his. The cost immediately exploded with 42.7%. The world's on its way! Twan Huys also demanded a fairy because, he said, the format of College Tour is his. Strange, because he had developed it while he was on the payroll of a state broadcaster. Meanwhile, he has already left for RTL where he touches a million euros a year. The same Huys was first a public service idealist who likes to turn away people who oppose mass immigration as Nazis. And that's how we see it everywhere at the NPO. Watchers are taken the measure. They're populists. It is all gray that needs to be raised to be worshippers of climate religion and good subjects of diversity. But these morally superior types turn out to be flat-footed grabbers in practice. And the situation is alarming. The NPO has no control over it. The Minister also has no control over it and that is why the Chamber has no control over it. The horse is completely out of control and the room is looking the other way. Several motions in favour of transparency at programme level did not reach a majority. We didn't seem to want it as a Lower House either. Fine, but now we see what's going to happen. Mr. Chairman. Why did this situation develop at the NPO? Why did things get so crazy? The Minister has a watchdog called the Media Commissioner, doesn't he? That must have been a pit bull on the bell, right? But why the hell does it have to be the Court of Auditors tearing up the cesspool at the Media Park? Well, that's simple: the president of the NPO is from D66. We read that she is very close to Minister Ollongren of D66. We also have the lady who has been in charge of the Media Commissioner for many years, Mrs De Cock Buning. She was also from D66. She tells the newspaper that she likes to have a beer with Minister Ollongren of D66. She also felt that Ms Ollongren should be the next Prime Minister of the Netherlands. Mrs Ollongren then asked this woman to lead EUvsDisinfo, a sort of secret service that should be tracking fake news. Both ladies, both the chairman of the NPO and the chairman of the Commissariat, sit on the couch with Mrs Ollongren, who is married again to a TV producer, who delivers again to the NPO, including the Lubach programme. Meanwhile, the highest media official of the ministry is also a D66 lady, someone who tells Trouw in daily Trouw to aspire to a political career, via D66. In short, President: a D66 official controls state broadcasting, a D66 official is the highest media official on state broadcasting, a D66 official controls state broadcasting and together they all sit on the bank at D66 Minister Ollongren. There was more political diversity in the GDR summit. Do we find it strange that the matter has gone so far, as the Court of Auditors' report showed today? Do we think it's weird that things have gone from bad to worse? Do we think it is strange that the Court of Auditors is harsh about the lack of transparency in state broadcasting? Do we think it's weird that the Boston Consulting Group wrote earlier: sorry, we can't look beyond the current system? In other words, we also suspect bodies in the closet. No, we don't think that's crazy. That D66 lady, who has now left the commissioner, where she has made a huge mess of it, with an incredible turnover among the employees without even one critical remark going towards the NPO, now deserves a nice penny at Netflix. And as it turns out, the Commissioner is also megacritical about the lack of transparency of the NPO. We have recently received a report on this subject. Looks like a D66 guy out means the quality up. I don't want to have a relationship with that party's nitrous point of view right away, but it does stand out. D66 is also absent tonight, instead of doing what parliamentarians are paid for, namely controlling the government. D66 prefers to keep it all quiet. Yeah, I get that. Isn't the NPO way out of line by influencing the programmes of all these broadcasters? Isn't that contrary to the Constitution? For example, the Council of State should keep an eye on that, but, yes, who is the head of the Council of State? An unelected D66'er, Thom de Graaf, again appointed by another unelected D66'er, Minister Ollongren. And who made sure that the NPO suddenly gets an extra 40 million a year, free money? That happens on the basis of the Pechtold motion. I'm gonna have to figure out which party it belongs to. Mr. Chairman. Please don't let us believe in conspiracy and conspiracy theories. There's no need for that. By the way, that shocking report about the NPO has been kept quiet all day by that same NPO. Nowhere have I encountered it, while they have hundreds of websites, radio and television channels. Probably spent the whole day working on Trump, because he's Hitler after all. Mr. Chairman. What's to be done? Tomorrow, we will stop broadcasting, because you see, Minister, where that leads: no transparency and a lot of self-enrichment. So why the measure you're threatening to take? Keep it simple and simply stop with all these broadcasting organizations. They're welcome to survive. Let them cook in their soup, but just send them an app: per present we no longer use your services. It's as simple as that. It saves taxpayers a lot of money and all the excesses that we see today in that deafening report are immediately a thing of the past. Mr President, I would like to conclude by saying the following. The D66 lady who is the chairman of the NPO is also going to behave more and more like a D66'er. Actually, I find that indecent. According to the Media Act, state broadcasting is for everyone, but this lady thinks she's mostly there on behalf of her party. She's about to take action against fake news, she told us last week as media spokesmen, because fake news, she says, has led to Brexit and Trump, and she thinks it's stupid. It wasn't like she could back that up, but she must have picked that up somewhere, probably at the NPO. But the whole story about fake news has long been destroyed, also in a report by her party colleague Ollongren, who hung her entire ministry from this schism. The only fake news turned out to be the Minister himself: none of it was true at all. The president of the NPO is just like the Japanese soldier who came out of the jungle in 1974. He thought World War II was still going on. No one told him anything. Shula Rijxman thinks the war on fake news is still going on: no one told her anything. The question to the Minister is: under what article of the Media Act will the President of the NPO organise a conference against what these D66s call "fake news"? I'd like to hear the exact article. Or should we be honest and say that this lady is way out of line? So what's this minister gonna do? I'm assuming nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-34.u4	Thank you. Is there an interruption? No? Okay, then we're done with the side of the room. Oh, Mr El Yassini wants to make another contribution. That's totally fine. Then I give the floor to Mr El Yassini of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-34.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Full bucket, I see, so let's get to work! I'll be very brief. In any case, I would like to thank the Minister for sending the bill, especially for extending it for a year. We received the vision letter for the summer. We've established it after the summer. We're gonna take those steps now, and it's gonna take a year. I just wanted to make a brief request to the Minister. We have, of course, received the report from the General Court today. That's where we're headed. We will soon be asking for a debate to look into this in greater depth. I would like to ask the Minister if the cabinet can come forward with a letter in response to the specific report so that we can take it with us. In the end, we can also plan a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-34.u6	We know Mr El Yassini as a keen Member of Parliament.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-34.u7	Well, thank you!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-34.u8	That's why he's here tonight, the only one except myself. He took note of that debate. We have had an extensive technical briefing today from the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-34.u9	You mean we've taken note of the report?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-34.u10	From the report, yes. What impression did Mr El Yassini give of that report? What does he think that politics, for example this minister, should do with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-34.u11	The interesting thing about that report is that it deals with the controllability or non-controllability of the effectiveness of the NPO and public service broadcasting. We really want a debate on this, not only with the Minister, but also with the rest of the Chamber. So I think it is a good thing that we should go into this further. And the VVD has always been very clear about what it wants: more openness. That is what we are going to bring into the debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-34.u12	That seems reasonable to me. But I'm putting my finger on the sore spot, which is the fact that we have all these broadcasters. We saw it today. The Court of Auditors says that we are talking to the NPO, but we cannot go deeper into those layers, because then you will get to those broadcasters. The Court of Auditors also complains about this. My idea is that there is really only one way to achieve that transparency and really break it open. That's... that's... that's... that's... that's... that's... that's... that's... that's... that's... that's... that's... Back in the day, the VVD felt the same way. Let's just go to one national network. If we do have a state service, let's just do it very simply. Is that something the VVD might agree with?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-34.u13	I am very curious to see how Mr Bosma is looking at this: if the Minister listened to Mr Bosma and sent an app to all the broadcasters tomorrow, what effect would that have on a broadcaster who would like to join the order? That's Unheard of Holland. So that would actually mean that Mr Bosma, who really is a big supporter of the future unheard Netherlands, would actually turn his back on that channel in advance. I don't think that's very good, just for pluralism.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-34.u14	Well, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-34.u15	If you also think it would not be good for pluralism, I'll add you to the fans of Ongehoord Nederland. I don't know if De Telegraaf has already been printed, but it seems to me that you will definitely get page 3 of De Telegraaf tomorrow. I hope that the Minister will send that app to BNNVARA, KRO-NCRV and whatever they are all called, but something in me says, and I've been here for a while saying that the Minister is not going to do that. So there is a good chance, especially since this minister is very keen to serve the Evangelical Broadcast, that these broadcasting organizations simply remain at the heart of the public system. If there is, I would like to see an Unheard Holland. That seems to me to be a very legitimate position.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-34.u16	I am particularly fond of the fact that we in the Netherlands have a system whereby a group of people, a number of initiators, who feel they have not yet been heard in the public service broadcasting system, can come up with their own initiative. I'm a fan of that. Of course, we will soon be looking with great interest at the submission of the various initiatives of the various broadcasters. At least that was my contribution. I am very curious to see if the Minister can promise that a letter on the report will come our way so that we can debate it later, at the beginning of next year. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-34.u17	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the parliamentary term. I see that the Minister can respond immediately and I am happy to give him the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-34.u18	Thank you, Mr President, and in particular thank you to Mr Bosma for creating this moment. With such an empty Chamber there was one speaker; no, a second speaker has been added, I must say that I have to speak about this law, which has been in the Chamber for some time, as you know. I had missed Mr Bosma's written contribution, so I am very pleased that it has now been spoken orally in my direction, in the direction of the cabinet. I thank him for that. When it comes to missing things: I had missed Mr Bosma's written contribution, but perhaps Mr Bosma has missed that another bill on media has already passed this Chamber and also the Upper House. So this is the second law, and I'm sure you'll take it into account: there's two more coming. Then you have 13 years of experience in this cabinet period four laws on the subject of "media." I think that's unprecedented. Anyway, we're not there yet. We will, of course, do our best to get these laws through both the Second and the First Chamber. Mr. Chairman. Mr Bosma indicated: keep it simple. That is indeed true of this bill. It's a very simple bill. It actually contains only one article, an article that allows us to extend the concession period by one year. You have also seen that the Council of State has submitted a blank report on this, because, of course, we have gone the right way, as is the case with legislative proposals. So it is a very simple law, but it is an important law, because before the summer the Chamber has indeed received from me the letter in which we indicate what we intend to do for the media in the coming years. That's a lot. In that letter we have already indicated that we want to take a little more time for careful elaboration, but also for allowing parts of this vision letter to be made available already in a subsequent concession period. We're gonna need this extra time for that. So it was already announced, but that must of course also be legally carefully and neatly secured. This means that the concession period, which has happened more often in the past, will be one year longer, and that the time provisions associated with the orderly course of work towards a new concession period, will all be extended for one year. This also means, for example, that the reference date which is always used for potential prospective broadcasters will also be extended for one year, until 31 December 2020. That has not yet officially come out, because I myself have waited a while for this bill to be dealt with, but you will understand that, also in view of the time, we have to take this decision now. That is an autonomous competence that I have under the Media Act. That decision will therefore be published this week. I can inform the Chamber, with two persons and the President present, that some eleven potential prospective broadcasters have already made themselves known directly or indirectly to us, to the Ministry, or have shown interest in other ways. Unheard Holland has indeed received a lot of media attention, but in the legislative consultation I have already indicated to you that Muslim24 is also a potential broadcaster that has come forward. The same goes for Omroep Groen and LoveTV. In short, there are several initiatives. That is not new either, because every time there is a new concession period, a lot of initiatives often come forward. The big question is, of course, which ones remain and can meet the criteria laid down by law. Mr. Chairman. When it comes to the questions put by Mr Bosma, I note that it was not a lot of questions but a lot of judgments. Sometimes they were even judgments that I find a bit on the edge. For example, I am here as a ruler and I am responsible for the entire media field. Also looking at my media letter and the response from Hilversum, it is not that only one broadcast will take precedence in everything. No, that is also a judgment of Mr Bosma that I really distance myself from. We are indeed making choices, including with regard to the broad field of broadcasting, which can be considered differently from a political point of view. Of course, that space is always there. We discussed the vision letter in detail in a general consultation in September, in which Mr Bosma was also present. The Chamber has also had the opportunity to correct the views I had expressed by means of statements of Parliament. I note that there was majority support in the Chamber for what I have presented. During the legislative consultation held on 25 November, we discussed the further effects of this in detail again. I have also provided the Chamber with an accurate booklet of the moments when parts of the vision letter come back. An example of an issue to which Mr Bosma now devotes many words is the legitimacy of the broadcasters and the way in which you should give broadcasters access to the order. Is that supposed to be just membership-based? The cabinet has said that we believe that this should be extended. It was also about how to judge that. The vision letter also contains views on how we want to deal with governance. That too comes back at appropriate times. I see Mr Bosma's remarks this evening as a kind of prelude to the debates that we will then have on the basis of substantive proposals. I am also looking forward to that, including Mr Bosma's contribution, because he is always able to bring the necessary depth to the debate. Mr. Chairman. The specific questions that have been asked are actually about two things. First of all, they were about the right of people who have a role in the media to organise conferences and talk about topics. You know that there is.. it's even in the name of your party or movement.. freedom in the country to talk about topics you're dealing with in your work, to talk to others that happens in all kinds of areas. It's nice that that freedom also exists in a country like this. Anyone can also interfere in that debate. The second question concerned in particular the report of the Court of Auditors, from which the fumes are still rising, because it did not come out until today. In particular, Mr El Yassini asked if the cabinet would come forward with a response. I can tell you that this reaction is already in the report, because the administrative responses have been included in the report. You can also read back my reaction when it comes to those parts which relate very directly to the position of the legislator and the government on this important issue. I have even understood that on the website of the General Court the somewhat broader response can be found. Of course, I am also looking forward to the debate we are going to have on this. In particular, when it comes to an issue such as efficiency, we have talked about this even during the legislative consultation, and it is very good that we look very closely at what is possible and what is not possible. This is certainly true with regard to the financial situation of public service broadcasting, in particular by reducing the minimum amount due to falling advertising revenue as we have experienced over the past period. Madam President. With regard to this simple but important legislative proposal, I have already announced that I hope that the House will soon vote on it and that it will soon be clarified in the First Chamber. With regard to the drafting of the vision letter, the Chamber, including Mr Bosma and Mr El Yassini, knows exactly when and in what form subjects will come back. Then we can have the debate in full focus, because then you will have our effects. This makes the debate even more substantive than if we were to carry it out on the basis of the more general letter of vision. I have just informed you of the progress towards the new concession period. This is in addition to what we did in the note on the report. We thought that this bill might be dealt with very quickly. Then, of course, it would be best if this bill had been dealt with both in the Second and also in the Upper Chamber, to take the decision on the move of the reference date. Now that we're so far in time, I have to do it sooner. I will, of course, report that to the First Chamber. But that does not, in principle, depend on this bill, because it is an autonomous competence that I have under the Media Act. So this week I will take advantage of that as well. Madam President. I think that at least for this moment I have done justice to both of them. I look forward to further debates at later times. I hope that there will be more Members of Parliament than the two who spoke this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-34.u19	Well, we like to keep it a little exclusive. I have said something about the legitimacy of broadcasting organisations; the Members who, in tens of thousands of years, are saying goodbye to the broadcasting organizations at the same time, that is to say about the whole membership structure that we now have. This on the one hand. On the other hand, what are they standing for? What's BNNVARA stand for anymore? This also combined with the fact that you have station coordinators and genre coordinators et cetera, so it is completely calved off. Can the Minister say anything about that? Because with this change of law, he chooses to maintain that device, to continue to float on those broadcasting organizations. Is that really something for 2020?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-34.u20	The temptation is, of course, to take a great deal of time to discuss this issue. But I'm going back to the vision letter anyway. In this we have indeed indicated that we still think the broadcasters are making an important contribution to our national public service broadcasting system. However, if you take the vision letter up again, you can also read in it that we also consider it important that the broadcasters, which were created perhaps 100 years ago, as is the case for some broadcasters, also demonstrate the legitimacy of their existence in the current system. This should not only be done on the basis of the fact that they reach the number of members. We are also in the process of developing criteria to assess in other ways whether they are still worth living in our system. You can find in the railway booklet when these criteria will be submitted to your Chamber. We're having that discussion with each other. We're taking a pretty far-reaching step in that direction. But I think it is right to justify that simply and only the fact that you meet membership numbers no longer offers sufficient legitimacy to contribute to the order. We will have to talk about this further. You can also read in the vision letter that we not only want to give an opinion at the end of a concession period, but that we also want to assess it in the interim. With this kind of proposal, we may not be able to move in your direction, but I think there are parts in it that you could support on behalf of the PVV if these proposals were to be submitted to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-34.u21	Well, that's gonna be exciting. I can't wait. But now we have a system of broadcasting which, in my view, no longer has legitimacy. The members walk away from bushes and the identities are completely flattened. And then the Minister says: be patient, because I'm going to cut the gordian knot and then I'm going to come up with a system that will prove that legitimacy in one way or another. But as long as that magic weapon hasn't been found, surely the Minister can't continue with this system, this artificial system? Then he can't maintain this system from 1925, can he?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-34.u22	The members walk away from bushes? When I look at the number of members of broadcasters, I think that many political parties can at least take another example. And certainly your party, because when it comes to members, you've made some other choices. A comparison with politics could also be made with trade unions and all kinds of other organisations. It is true that, at the time when we live, it is mainly about the younger generations that it is binding on organisations, regardless of what it is, politically, a trade union or a broadcaster, that is no longer automatically a given. But apart from that, we also think it is important, as I have just said, not to take a sec look at membership numbers, but also to take a broader look at the added value of broadcasters in our media system. That's what we do with prospective broadcasters. We can even see that there are prospective broadcasters that are already recruiting members, and if I have to believe the media, it is actually quite crescendo. This shows, by the way, that there is still an interest of citizens to commit themselves to something. Eventually, you know that, because you know the law well after 13 years of being a spokesperson in this field. The opinion on admission does not only look at the number of members, whether they have made it, for example, or whether the prospective broadcaster has reached 50 000, but also looks at the added value of this new prospective broadcaster in our system. So even then, we have that broader look. I believe that this is entirely in line with what you are saying, regardless of the fact that you may not want to see any broadcasters at all. Then we'll be in a completely different discussion. The cabinet doesn't choose that. Then we need a BBC-like model or whatever. We can discuss this with each other for hours, but that is not the proposal made by the cabinet. Maybe we should do that sometime at another time and in another place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-34.u23	Finally. Shortly, Mr. Bosma.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-34.u24	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Very briefly, also to save myself a second term. The Minister has been here for two and a half years. Apparently, he's gonna come up with a big new foundation under those broadcasting organizations. It's not just about members anymore, it's about something else. Well, I'm very curious. I can't make it up. I am very curious, but the Minister is there for two and a half years and he has not yet found the great answer to this very big question. I don't have the answer myself, but I'm not a minister. I understand broadcasting policy is difficult, with all coalition partners. Broadcast policy is always very sensitive, with a lot of parties and all different opinions, but after two and a half years, why does the Minister still have no answer to that crucial question as to what is the basis of the broadcasting system we have, namely broadcasting organizations?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-34.u25	If this is meant to be a reproach, I do not think it is right. What I have done as Minister on behalf of the Cabinet is to present to the Chamber extensive plans for the summer, our vision, whatever you think of it, because that space is, of course, in the political debate. In this we have indicated on a large number of subjects which direction we want to take. As should be the case in an orderly relationship between the cabinet and the Chamber, this has been submitted to the Chamber. The Chamber has been able to give its opinion on this matter. That's what happened. Now we are in the process of doing this quite well, for example in the light of parts that are going to come into legislation, so that we can work it out further. The fundamental debate of principle, whether we find the way forward, took place in the Chamber in September. The Chamber has expressed support for this direction. Now you can hold me to the fact that, in accordance with the booklet I have presented to you, I am going to present a huge number of proposals on all these items, which is an enormous number of subjects. Then we can continue the substantive debate on whether or not you can carry it as a political group. We're working hard on that. Once again, I very much look forward to the debates that will continue on this subject in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-34.u26	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the first term. There is no need for a second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-12-10-tweedekamer-34.u27	The votes on this bill will be on Tuesday. That brings us to the end.
