ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-eerstekamer-3.u1	The next item is the commemoration of Mr F.H.J.J. Andriessen. I ask the Members to stand up. On 22 March last, Frans Andriessen, former senator of the CDA, died. He was a member of the First Chamber for 112 days, from 16 September 1980 until 6 January 1981. Franciscus Henricus Johannes Joseph Andriessen was born on 2 April 1929 in Utrecht. During his childhood, his father, Jan Andriessen, was a member of the First Chamber on behalf of the Roman Catholic State Party. Frans attended the primary school of the Brothers of Tilburg, in Utrecht. He then went to the Roman Catholic boarding school Stacking in Boxtel, where he obtained his diploma in gymnasium alpha. From 1948 to 1951 Frans Andriessen studied Dutch law at the University of Utrecht. During his studies Mr Andriessen began his social career at the construction company Bredero in Utrecht. In 1954 he became director of the Catholic Institute for Housing, which later merged with the Netherlands Christian Institute for Housing. He was supposed to stay there until 1972. In the meantime, Mr Andriessen's political career took off. Nearly nine years, from 1958 to 1967, he was a member of the Provincial States of Utrecht. On 23 February 1967 he was sworn in as a member of the Dutch Parliament for the KVP and took over from his father Jan, who had taken leave of the House of Representatives a day earlier. Frans Andriessen was particularly concerned with housing, domestic administration and local government finances. In August 1971 he became acting chairman and on 1 January 1972 permanent chairman of the KVP. He remained so until he became Minister of Finance in December 1977. Mr Andriessen himself, after a little over two years, ended prematurely. He could not agree with the choice of other members of the Van Agt cabinet to cut significantly less than was proposed in the original plans of Schadek '81. Andriessen wrote in his letter of resignation to Van Agt: 'In my opinion, employment and the whole social security system are at stake here'. The major unemployment crisis of a few years after proved to be the same. Looking back at his resignation, he later said: "A very invigorating affair, which has cost me a lot of heartache." When Mr Andriessen became a member of the First Chamber in 1980, he had resigned a few months earlier. However, his membership of the Senate would appear to be short-lived, as he was soon asked to become a member of the Commission of the European Communities for the Netherlands. However, his membership was long enough to make another maiden speech in this Chamber. On 2 December 1980 he spoke during a debate on constitutional provisions relating to external relations. Andriessen said: "The growing importance of this (European) integration (...) is certainly not the only reason for the great importance of the constitutional rules currently under discussion in this Chamber, but a very important one. It is in this idea that where international law and national law touch each other and relations are precisely regulated, examples are taken from European law." It now reads as a harbinger of its upcoming office in Brussels. On 6 January 1981 Mr Andriessen resigned as a member of the First Chamber. For exactly 12 years, until 6 January 1993, he would remain a member of the European Commission for the Netherlands, eight of which as Vice-President. Together with President Jacques Delors, he worked on the Maastricht Treaty, which was concluded in 1992. In addition to his social and political career, Mr Andriessen was, among other things, acting chairman of the International Affairs Advisory Council, Chairman of the Advisory Committee on the bottom of the labour market and Chairman of the Institut de l'Euro in Lyon. He was also commissioner at several companies, including Sara Lee/Douwe Egberts, DELA, Robeco and DHV. From 1990 to 2009, he was professor of European integration at Utrecht University. In 1969, Mr Andriessen was appointed Officer of the Order of Orange-Nassau, in 1980 as Knight of the Order of the Dutch Lion, and on 19 January 1993 he received the Grand Cross in the Order of Orange-Nassau. Frans Andriessen was a business, expert and principled politician. The latter has not always been easy for him. The fact that he as a minister did not deviate from his position under immense pressure and eventually chose to resign is a sign of his action in politics. May our respect for his person and his merits for society and Dutch parliamentary democracy be to support his family and his neighbors. I ask everyone to observe a moment's silence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-09-eerstekamer-3.u2	Thank you. I shall suspend the sitting for a few moments.
