ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u1	We will be the first to have a debate today on the Emergency Tax Unit Repair Act. That debate will be held with the Secretary of State for Finance, whom I would like to welcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u2	We currently have seven speakers on the list. First of all, Mrs Lodders of the VVD will now be allowed to speak. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u3	Thank you, Mr President. I am going to try to make my contribution in a very technical debate in a somewhat understandable language. Mr. Chairman. Whether we are talking about small and medium-sized enterprises or the large business, these companies are an important engine of our economy. Without these companies, our country wouldn't be doing so well. Our companies ensure that people have a job and that investments are made, which brings other companies orzzp'ers back to work. Some of these companies are today concerned, namely those which form a fiscal unit. When a company uses the tax unit, the Tax Administration treats the parent company and the subsidiary company or several subsidiaries as one taxable person. An important advantage for both the entrepreneur and the Tax Administration is that the administrative burden is reduced by forming a tax unit. The Netherlands has about 100,000 tax units, of which more than two thirds are active within small and medium-sized enterprises. At the beginning of last year, the Court of Justice of the European Union delivered a ruling that the Dutch interpretation of fiscal unity is contrary to European law. Today, there is a legislative proposal to fix a number of parts of this law, so that this contradiction is removed. The need to adapt the tax unit is annoying, particularly for companies affected by this emergency repair, but also for the Tax Administration. I will deal with both points. First of all, the entrepreneurs. If I understand correctly, about 40,000 companies forming a fiscal unit are affected. That's quite a number. The Secretary of State has made a number of choices in the law and the Chamber has already asked extensive questions about this. I would like to thank the Secretary of State through the chairman for his reply, which, I think, was quite an answer. My group would prefer to make as minimal changes as possible, but the Secretary of State has chosen not only to repair the direct consequences of the ruling, but also to address a number of vulnerabilities. Can the Secretary of State explain that again? Mr. Chairman. The Secretary of State announced the emergency repair earlier. This will be carried out retroactively. My group is pleased that we have already decided to mitigate the retroactive effect when dealing with the 2019 Tax Plan. The emergency repair will not take effect as of 25 October 2017, as previously announced, but as of 1 January 2018. This will hopefully lead to less administrative burden for the companies to which this applies. However, I still have a question about that. There are companies that follow a broken accounting year, e.g. a May-May accounting. Can the Secretary of State indicate how many companies this is about? Is there room to deal with that in an appropriate way? Because with a broken financial year, there will be an additional administrative burden not only for the company in question, but also for the Tax Administration. I'd like to hear a response from the Secretary of State. Mr. Chairman. I have discussed these changes with a number of experts. Let us be clear: we would not have liked these changes, but now that they are, I would like to urge the Secretary of State to monitor the situation in practice. What are entrepreneurs and the Tax Office facing? Indeed, there may be a number of very specific situations that no one has thought of in advance or taken into account. How's the Secretary of State gonna monitor this? Is there room for customization in exceptional situations? This is not only important for this transitional situation. This monitoring is, of course, also important for the new scheme that has already been announced. Mr. Chairman. The emergency repair was announced a while ago. Business should be aware of the law announced, but I would like to ask the Secretary of State to pay particular attention to the communication of this law and the preparations for the new regulation. I'd like a response. Can the Secretary of State indicate whether the decision on investment funds has already been amended? I have read in the answer to the questions that this has been announced, but I would like to hear the current state of affairs. Then I have a few more questions about the IRS. The tax unit is a crown jewel, for companies but also for the Tax Administration. The Tax Administration is critical of the implementation of this repair law. He shall state in the implementation test that measures are not enforceable. Can the Secretary of State explain this? Because with this warning and the introduction of a number of measures, it must not lead to accidents. And if there are those accidents, then I do not want us to have the reference that we have talked about today, that the Chamber has said 'yes' to this law, the amendments, and that it has also said 'yes' to that critical execution test. What other possibilities are there to make it accessible to the Tax Administration? Are there any other consequences for the service to be expected, I ask the Secretary of State. In answering the questions previously asked, the Secretary of State still addresses the conditions to be met. This is, among other things, selective supervision. In what way is selective supervision implemented and what are the consequences of this? I would also like to ask him about the preparations. The IRS needs to change the forms. Is that ready by now? If not, when will these be ready? Mr. Chairman. Finally, I would like to look to the future. I told you, the tax unit is a crown jewel. The Secretary of State has also confirmed this in the various documents we have read. The cabinet has announced that it wants to come up with a new arrangement. My group welcomes that. The tax unit is an important element in the business environment. It is not for nothing that we have also said a few words about this in the coalition agreement and have confirmed how important that is. However, there are concerns about the timetable of this new regulation. In what way can the Secretary of State speed up the process of achieving this new group regime? The Netherlands is rich with many experts. They are not only in the Ministry; together with industry experts and a number of scientists, this process must be speeded up. It is important that we stand alongside the companies and offer them and the Tax Administration a new perspective as soon as possible. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u4	Thank you, Mrs Lodders. We can now listen to Mr Van Weyenberg's contribution from D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u5	And according to the bell, you're making me wrap up already! Mr. Chairman. "Doing nothing is not an option', as far as I am concerned, is the brief summary of the repair law that we are discussing today after the European Court of Justice and the Supreme Court have said that the way in which the Netherlands applied fiscal unity was contrary to European law. Domestic business families have benefited from certain advantages that other European business families cannot benefit from. We can't have that distinction. This also gave rise to the situation that, without repair, this ruling could lead to a situation in which foreign companies, in particular, could take the dried grapes out of our legislation, with major budgetary risks, and also all kinds of tax arrangements. And we don't want that. Doing nothing was not a real option, the Secretary of State rightly says in the note following the report. The D66 Group shares the need for this repair, but has three specific questions. The first question concerns feasibility. For the first time, the Tax Administration has described a change in law as "possibly impossible," and that is quite a lot. I know that this Secretary of State, also given the major challenges at the service, is always looking very closely at the feasibility and makes it difficult. But there was also a comma after that not feasibility, it said: unless two conditions are met. Do I understand correctly that it actually says here: the Tax Office says no, unless things are changed? Do I understand correctly that, according to the Tax Administration, the bill as it stands, in which the Secretary of State listened to it, is enforceable? I would like to hear an explicit confirmation on that. As difficult as it may be, I think it is right for an organization to indicate: with all due respect, we cannot do this. I think we'd rather hear that in advance than afterwards. At the same time, it is of course frustrating if you want to take steps, for example to simplify the tax system and also to fulfil all kinds of political wishes. But I'm okay with the IRS sending a strong signal here. Mr. Chairman. One of the two conditions for making it feasible was selective supervision. Only by selective supervision will it become feasible. That is, of course, something that everyone in this Chamber, by definition, produces headaches. Then you actually say in advance: we can't offer the supervision we actually want. I would also ask for a reflection from the Secretary of State. I generally understand that checking 100,000 declarations manually would not work, but of course you want everyone to pay a decent tax. Can the Secretary of State address the question of how this selective supervision is now being implemented and how he guarantees that the greatest risks will actually be assessed? How does the Secretary of State ensure that selective supervision does not invite abuse or may have budgetary consequences? Mr. Chairman. The second question I would like to put concerns the feasibility for companies. My group is pleased that the cabinet does not allow retroactive action to take place in the middle of a calendar year. During the review of the dividend tax measure, the option was to limit the retroactive effect to 1 January 2018 instead of 25 October 2017. That may sound very technical, but for companies it makes a big difference. As a result, a large group of companies do not suffer from two different rules during one financial year, and that seems to me to be a good thing. However, we still have questions coming in. I heard Mrs Lodder ask questions about companies with different rhythms during the financial year. That's an interesting question. I'm curious to hear the answer. I also get the question whether, for example, companies are still able to get to the Tax Administration with their questions and how they are doing now. Are there a lot of questions coming in? I saw in the documents the estimate that it costs a company €250 to adapt to this. Is this assessment of the incidental costs of companies still appropriate? I'd like a response. We've already received the Secretary of State's position on what we're going to do wider in taxes at a hard Brexit. For example, it was about people and their mortgage interest deduction. How do you deal with that in a no-dealbrexit? The Secretary of State says he expects companies to prepare themselves well for all scenarios. I know; you can ask from companies. But we understood from the Director of Customs that many entrepreneurs are really badly prepared. How can the Secretary of State expect companies to prepare themselves well and reconcile the concern of the Customs Director? Is there also a specific link with the tax unit? This is a tax issue for many companies as a whole. Finally, Mr President. We understand that this urgent repair is necessary. We understand that it is not always as beautiful. We are therefore looking forward in particular to proposals for a more structural new regime.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u6	A question from Mr Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u7	Wouldn't Mr Van Weyenberg find it much better if this law didn't come into force until 1 January 2019, given all the problems at the Tax Administration and the companies involved?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u8	I understand very well why there is retroactive force in it. So I thought January 1st was a good time. But I think it is a good thing that you are also going to ask me, Mr President, that the Secretary of State should go into more detail as to what the risks would be a year later, not only in terms of budget but also in terms of possible undesirable behaviour.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u9	I ask this because both VNO-NCW and the Tax Administration are calling the alarm clock when it comes to 2018. It is precisely this retroactivity that is a very big problem. Businesses have to go back to reasoning and unravel the fiscal unit, like: how about it; who has some to whom borrowed, with how much interest, and you name it. It is actually unfair to ask those companies, because they were working in good faith until 2018. In 2019, a lot of interest relief measures were implemented anyway, which would make it much easier. If the budget is not so bad, could D66 support the call for this law to enter into force only 1 January 2019? Or does D66 say: we follow this Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u10	I am curious to hear the answer to the question he is asking with Mr Van Dijck, but that retroactive effect has not been chosen for nothing. I understand perfectly well that it's complicated. I therefore also had to ask myself whether the incidental cost of €250 for a company is correct, or whether that other approach is due to the possible concern that is actually the same as Mr Van Dijck's. I'm really scared of the risks you'd run without the retroactivity. You could have built on that, too. That was one of the reasons why the Secretary of State went for retroactive effect, and I understand that. Although I also like to make laws enforceable, with minimal impact for companies, I understood why the retroactivity had to be reduced. I am therefore looking forward to the more precise answers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u11	Thank you. I call Mr Tony van Dijck to speak on behalf of the PVV Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u12	Mr. Chairman. As Mrs Lodders of the VVD has just said, it is a black day in the fiscal history of the Netherlands. A crown jewel, the fiscal unit, is sacrificed on the Brussels altar, one of the pillars of the Dutch climate of establishment. Indeed, it sounds theatrical, but many people feel it this way according to VNO-NCW. Nobody wants this, not in this Chamber, but Brussels has to, it has to from the Court of Justice. The tax unit excels in simplicity and transparency, with great administrative benefits for companies and the Tax Administration. A parent company, together with its subsidiaries, is regarded as a single taxable person, so no separate VAT and Vpb declarations. Profits and losses can be offset among themselves. Goods and capital can be transferred without tax consequences. That's so convenient. The companies are pleased with this arrangement. The IRS welcomes this arrangement. Everyone is happy with this crown jewel. But then came the European Court of Justice, which talked about fiscal discrimination. A foreign daughter is treated differently than the Dutch sister. That's not so crazy, because you're dealing with different tax regimes, tax administrations, which means you can't cross cases against each other. Unequal cases are impossible to treat equally. But this Secretary of State didn't know how quickly he had to destroy this gem. He did not even wait for the judgments of the European Court of Justice and the Supreme Court. Why didn't he? Why didn't he act against this decision-making? Did he go to Brussels? Has he spoken to the European Commission? Has he lobbied for the Dutch interest? I don't read about it. This has far-reaching consequences for the Tax Administration and the hundreds of thousands of tax units that the Netherlands is rich in. 40,000 are hit hard, and that's a shame. I still have a few questions. The Secretary of State is threatening a structural loss of hundreds of millions if we do not repair the fiscal unit. Is this scary? Hundreds of millions! What is this based on? Can the Secretary of State justify this amount? What is this loss after the introduction of the Earnings stripping measures, as we introduced them on 1 January? What is this loss after the abolition of virtually all specific interest relief facilities, such as interest relief on holdings and acquisitions? Why is the temporary threshold of €100,000 not extended until the group scheme has been devised and will enter into force in 2021? This would slightly reduce the damage to SMEs. And then the IRS. The previous speakers also mentioned it. Even the Tax Administration calls this law unenforceable. The IRS has a lot of problems, as we all know. I'll mention the IT and the departure arrangements. Now it comes on top that thousands of companies are gonna want pre-consultation with the IRS, because they don't know how this repair law is gonna work out for them. The Tax Administration states that this law is only enforceable with selective supervision. What does this mean, selective surveillance? Doesn't this mean surveillance? No pre-consultation? The Tax Administration also indicates that the feasibility of the remaining parts is problematic, at least in 2018. What does this mean, I ask the Secretary of State. It's the first time I've had the tax authorities ring the bell. This law is only enforceable if there is a glimpse and selective supervision. It's waiting for another disaster. Why does this Secretary of State still want to push through this law when he knows the Tax Administration can't handle it? You shouldn't want this, especially since the Secretary of State is also responsible for the operation of the same Tax Office. Finally, I would like to say a word about retroactivity. First, this Act would enter into force on 25 October 2017. This was recently amended in 1 January 2018. But this still means a lot of red tape. Why not limit the retroactive effect to 1 January 2019? Most of the interest relief restrictions will then also apply. Moreover, the Tax Administration has clearly indicated that it is not able to maintain earlier. Almost all stakeholders, including the Tax Administration, beg the Secretary of State to move the starting date, because it is unclear and it is impossible to unravel the tax structures retroactively. Why isn't this happening and how much would this cost the Treasury, I ask the Secretary of State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u13	Thank you, Mr. Van Dijck. I now give the floor to Mr Van Rooijen from the 50PLUS Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u14	Mr. Chairman. The Dutch fiscal unitary regime is internationally unique and can rightly be regarded as a crown jewel. This regime is indeed one of the pillars of our fiscal locational environment. Therefore, it is no surprise that VNO-NCW stated that this proposal threatens to undress the fiscal unitary regime and that it is finally geared towards the definitive end of this regime. The cabinet recognises that the proposal will inevitably result in some of the benefits being lost, but that it will not affect most existing tax units. There will be a future-proof new regime, focusing on group schemes in other EU countries. This means, for the location climate, that the Netherlands loses its unique position vis-à-vis other Member States and thus loses its lead. It is clear that our EU membership does not only bring benefits. Unfortunately, this temporary repair proposal is a very sad example of this. International tax planners are mainly the cause of the problems that led to this intervention. It is therefore important to limit the damage as much as possible: damage control. I shall confine myself to the following three points: retroactive effect, the new regime and the final assessment of the proposal. First of all, I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the good, clear and comprehensive answer to the large series of questions put by the small 50PLUS Group at the beginning of the summer recess last year. I remember it very well. Reactive force should remain a very large exception in tax law if it leads to burdens for citizens and businesses. That is a golden rule, which, fortunately, the Second and First Chambers want to adhere strictly to. Kabinets must always respect this principle of tax law. If I test this proposal, only the budgetary aspect alone is not sufficient for an intervention. After all, a budgetary loss can be offset by alternative proposals. So it's too easy to choose that escape route. Here a temporary loss occurs and structural loss is prevented, according to the cabinet. The rule by press release should not actually take place. There must therefore be a heavy justification for that retroactive effect. The 50PLUS Group has asked whether retroactive effect is in line with Article 1 of the first Protocol to the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, known as the ECHR. It is settled case-law of the European Court of Justice and the Supreme Court that the tax legislator, says the cabinet, has a wide discretion. The cabinet believes that a fair balance has been applied as required by the Treaty. My group does not really want to accept this, but I think it will eventually have to do so. The reasons for the proposal are as follows: "Without the emergency measure," says the Cabinet, "would disrupt the level playing field between domestic companies and internationally operating companies at the expense of domestic companies. For a number of purely domestic companies, the proposal will have an effect, but the disadvantage for these companies outweighs, in the Cabinet's view, the avoidance of unintentional advantage that international companies with structures which are highly focused on the erosion of the base taxable in the Netherlands could achieve without the emergency measure, with all the budgetary consequences that would have it." I quoted the cabinet, a very long sentence. The cabinet does not see doing anything or granting certain benefits in foreign situations as a real option. For this reason, the Cabinet can only conclude that, even after the ruling of the Court of Justice, the relevant benefits in cross-border EU situations must be withheld. Legally, this is only possible by taking a more stringent approach to domestic situations by denying the benefits in those situations. That's a big deal. The Cabinet acknowledges that for certain taxable persons the taxable profit is higher. The cabinet has an eye for the sharpest aspects and recognises their hardness. It is a good thing that a transitional measure has been put in place to reduce interest relief in order to prevent profit drainage. The period of retroactive effect is limited by a letter of amendment to 1 January 2018, instead of 25 October 2017. That was, of course, an impossible proposal at first, including for the Tax Administration. This makes the proposal less complex for taxpayers and the Tax Administration, but there is therefore no respectful effect. In fact, my group believes that the retroactive effect should not be there in 2018. The argument of structural budgetary implications is not a decisive argument. My question, with colleagues from earlier, is: can the retroactive effect for 2018 not still be excluded, partly because the control of the Tax Administration, I think, is very little? That in itself is very worrying. Colleagues have already said that the Tax Administration had turned on a red light, and it is also a very difficult matter for taxpayers. Are we supposed to want this? 50PLUS had called for attention to be paid to a cross-border tax unit as an alternative and as a permanent arrangement. The Cabinet recognises that in theory this can also be a way to bring the regime into line with EU law. The cabinet does not think that this is a real option, because it has the effect of facilitating the erosion of our tax base by internationally operating companies. With the cabinet, my group thinks that, weighing everything up, of course, it is undesirable, but the consequences are very great if you did not dig out that real option in itself. We shall come back to that in the final settlement. My group is grateful for the fact that for fiscal investment firms the Decision on investment funds will be amended to avoid the need to distribute more profits than is actually available. We had pointed this out. An approval scheme shall also be in force until this Decision has been amended. How far along is that? "The cabinet would not comment on the opinion of the Advocate General at the Supreme Court, now that the Supreme Court has given its final judgment," end quote. It is quite unique that the Supreme Court departs from an opinion of the Advocate General. It is, I think, a good thing that the Secretary of State has allowed that to happen again, because the Supreme Court saved him with a gong, but the Advocate General had given a very different signal. Mr. Chairman. 50PLUS proposes a motion that retroactive effect in tax law should remain an exceptional measure when it comes to increasing the burden on citizens and businesses. I think that the Secretary of State is too easy to pass by by referring to the budgetary aspect. Mr. Chairman. Finally, the second point: the future group regime. The development of a new group scheme is complicated for a number of reasons, says the Cabinet, partly because many corporate tax schemes are linked to the current tax unit scheme. It is also important to look closely at EU law, says the cabinet. Transitional law is also expected to be needed in the transition to a new regime. The tax administration and industry need to adapt their ICT systems. That sounds like a heroic task to me! The feasibility is of great importance, the cabinet says. "The aim is to retain important benefits in the new scheme where possible." That is very vague, very unclear and very careful. I am, however, very concerned when it is worded as follows: 'The aim is to retain important benefits where possible in the new scheme too'. We call for the NOB to consider all the alternatives and give them a serious chance; we have already asked for them. Our regime is, because of full consolidation, colleagues have already pointed out that it is a unique system that is not fully comparable to regulations abroad. We are the only country with full consolidation in the European Union and beyond, and in fact we should retain it. There are few tax schemes that have so much support, both in tax practice and with taxpayers as well as with the Tax Administration. It's been around for decades.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u15	Would you like to finish?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u16	Yes. Mr President, the cabinet recognises that the fiscal unit is a crown jewel and that the current benefits must be taken into account. 50PLUS believes that our crown jewel should be preserved as much as possible and demands an extreme effort from the cabinet. Can the Secretary of State make that commitment? We shouldn't throw the kid away with the bathwater. Mr. Chairman. Our final assessment: after ample consideration and weighing everything carefully, my group is of the opinion that we should support this temporary but nevertheless far-reaching proposal, no matter how much the objections about retroactivity weigh. We want the Secretary of State to go into this in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u17	Thank you, Mr. Van Rooijen. Then we will listen to Mr Snels van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We are having this debate because the current regime of fiscal unity is in breach of EU law. Domestic subsidiaries may be incorporated into a fiscal unit, but foreign subsidiaries do not, and this gives domestic subsidiaries an advantage over foreign subsidiaries. Then the question is actually quite simple: are you going to give foreign companies an advantage or stop giving the advantage to domestic, Dutch companies? The cabinet chooses the latter, and frankly I think that would be wise. Firstly, in my view, the law was never intended for the per-element approach which seems to apply to foreign daughters on the basis of the rulings of the European Court of Justice. Secondly, that very large possible base erosion is ultimately not what we all want. At the same time, I think we all agree on this. I note with all contributions that it is simply ugly legislation, both with retroactive effect and with the Tax Administration, as well as with the consequences for companies. It's a bit of plaster sticking, but if there's a wound, you should stick patches too. We'll have the more final discussion later. I do have a number of questions, both about the budgetary implications and how they fit in, and about the operation and the risks. I will also come to the more fundamental questions later. The first question is a little in line with Mrs Lodder's question. The Secretary of State finally chose to limit some elements in the tax unit, because, as he literally says, these are "probably the most vulnerable elements." There are two ways to look at that. You can look at it the way Mrs Lodder does it: couldn't we have done it less? But you can also look like this: shouldn't we have done something more? Are there not also other elements that may be vulnerable to European law? Actually, my question is: how exactly was that balance made? How was that risk assessment made? Are we not at risk of getting judgments from judges in the near future, which may require us to stick more patches in the future before we come to a definitive settlement? I am still not getting my head around the budgetary problem. This problem has arisen under European law. The European court has said that domestic companies have a tax advantage over foreign subsidiaries. And in the end, it could go up to hundreds of millions in the base erosion. Now those benefits for those domestic companies, or for domestic subsidiaries, are reduced. And finally, the tax disadvantage is virtually zero. Occasionally, it's 34 million to 42 million. I don't understand. If, in the end, there should be a tax advantage of perhaps hundreds of millions and you are going to restrict the scheme, then would you expect those domestic companies to eventually pay more tax? We want to combat this basic erosion, so we are taking measures, but there are hardly any budgetary consequences, only those incidental ones. That's not good to rhyme with each other. The Secretary of State says that this is because companies themselves can also take measures to mitigate these negative effects, for example because they are going to merge. Then there are no daughters, but it becomes one company. But even so, you would say that a lot of those choices of companies for that tax unit are ultimately also tax driven. They choose because they know they have a tax advantage. That is why the European judge has intervened. Because there is a tax advantage that may be high, we must limit it. And yet there is hardly any fiscal effect, and therefore hardly any budgetary effect. I don't understand. More fundamentally, I think this question will also play a role when we finally go to the new group regime. Once again, the question arises as to how this relates to European law. And even then, you will have to look at what this base erosion and possible base erosion are, and so you will have to consider the competitive disadvantage and advantage for domestic and foreign companies. And doesn't it avenge the fact that, in the end, we have hardly any insight into what exactly the budgetary consequences of this complete base erosion of the fiscal unitary regime are? We barely have that insight, at least as far as I can tell. In the end, there is a basic erosion, but I do not think we have an overview of it, and so we do not really know what will happen if we restrict it. I'd like a response. Mr. Chairman. Then I have another question about the 372 million, I shall say, so about the advantage that those foreign daughters may still have before retroactive effect. I always see the budgetary implications that the emphasis is on the 42 million. It is also included in the budget. But if I understand correctly, that 372 million is ultimately going to be an amount that we're going to get in next year. Because the ruling is now final, so those foreign daughters are now going to claim European law and the judge's ruling, and they can still get the benefits of those elements from the fiscal unitary regime. Is that actually relevant to the burden framework? Or is this just an incidental loss that we will see in the budget in the years to come, while, of course, it will be an attack before 2017? I have the impression that the cabinet assumes that it is an incidental loss and is therefore autonomous. But you could also look at it in a different way. One could say that the way in which we design this emergency law or repair also affects that incidental loss of 372 million. It could be said that it is also a policy-relevant adjustment and should therefore be incorporated into the burden framework. That is, of course, still occasional, but we have done so on a number of occasions. One could say that there is, after all, a tax relief of 372 million for international companies, which ultimately have to be paid back by internationally operating companies, even if it is occasional. If we had a similar case on the expenditure side, Finance would have been much stricter: the department concerned should have resolved that at that time in the expenditure framework. Looks like it's running away from the balance right now. I'd like a response. A number of colleagues have spoken about the implementation of the Tax Administration and, above all, about the smaller business community. I'd like to join in on that. What does this mean for the implementation of the Tax Administration? Are smaller companies also being helped to make their declarations as well as possible? This is part of the difficult nature of this legislation: not only the retroactive effect, but also the implementation by the Tax Administration will be difficult. Smaller companies are really gonna have a problem with that. What's the Cabinet gonna do about it? Mr. Chairman. Then I'm going to close with the broader perspective, if we're going to go to that group arrangement. I agree with Mr Van Rooijen: once this tax unit was designed to make it easier for companies and subsidiaries. At the same time, I believe that it has become increasingly complex and that it is being used more and more fiscally. Companies choose or not, because they think they take tax advantage of it. In fact, the unit is politically relevant, and you should want to think about what the total base erosion of the fiscal unit regime is. What are the economic and budgetary implications for companies? I believe that this is a relevant debate, which I think we should have when we talk about the group regime. Does the Secretary of State agree with me? Does he also want to take this question with him in the future? Because you could just think: if companies opt for fiscal unity purely for tax reasons, is that desirable? Could we perhaps limit this erosion of the basis? It's an open question, but it's pretty fundamental. Finally, another cry of hearts. This is a very technical law. When it comes to taxation and taxation, we often say here that we need to make it easier. In fact, we always talk about income tax for people: box 1, box 2 already less and box 3, but mostly box 1. Apart from tackling base erosion and tax avoidance, is making corporate tax simpler not one of the objectives that we as a government should have? Because this is such complex legislation, not only for a simple MP like me, but also for all those people in practice to understand that. In doing so, you can hardly see the final effects and therefore you do not know what the social and economic consequences of legislation are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u19	Thank you. Mr Van Dijck has given you some extra speaking time. Mr. Van Dijck.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u20	That base erosion is particularly relevant if you were to involve the foreign daughters, because then there is no way to remove it. But the big advantage for Dutch business, the tax unit as it currently exists, is administrative burden relief, the fact that you no longer have different accounting records, different returns, different VAT and Vpb rates and interest rates. That's one whole. This takes place within a company; the Tax Administration does not care. And there's the power of the fiscal unit. Thus, the ground that foreign e.g., foreign subsidiaries, would be disadvantaged in relation to Dutch daughters and that this is the base erosion only applies if foreign companies are involved. This is because you can't get rid of it because you're dealing with two tax regimes. That is the painful thing about this decision: that the red tape comes back to businesses as well as to the Tax Administration, and that this is done on dictatorship, from Brussels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u21	I already said to Mr Van Rooijen that the fiscal unitary regime, certainly from the point of view of history, was created to reduce the administrative burden on companies. At the same time, I think this has become very complex in the end. I believe that it is not only a choice from administrative burdens, but that it is also fiscally driven: where is an advantage to be obtained? 'Cause you don't have to. Companies don't have to choose. Then they have other reasons not to. So I'm right: it's about administrative burdens, it's about making it easier and it's also about making it easier for the Tax Administration, but there may also be tax-driven motives to opt for a tax unit or not. I do find it interesting to consider these questions: what does that actually mean budgetaryly, what does it mean economically, what does it mean for companies? This is certainly important because we are going to have that more fundamental debate in the group regime.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u22	Mr. Van Dijck, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u23	You just asked a question about this: it costs 371 million if you involve the foreign companies. Indeed, that costs a lot of money, because that is where the removal of burdens, duties, interest, and you name it, is not the issue. But the disadvantage for the companies is that the additional revenue for the Tax Administration is now only 40 million. That's what you're saying. So, in other words, it's only 40 million. That speaks volumes: there is no tax reason why companies do this, but it is purely administrative. The costs are at the head office and the profits are with the daughters. But if it's one company, you can deduct that cost from the daughters' profits. That's the beauty of this whole fiscal instrument. So it's not a big deal, is it? And I think that this Secretary of State should have appealed, or should have acted much harder against the European Union to destroy this, because it is not fiscally motivated. It's purely an administrative burden relief.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u24	I have therefore put a number of questions to the Secretary of State. What's with the budget? I can't get it all in my head yet. I do think it is important, however, that this is why we have a single market in Europe and why we also have a Court of Justice to ensure that the playing field remains the same for domestic and foreign companies. This is also in the interest of Dutch companies. The Secretary of State can choose to offer all the benefits to foreign companies as well, and then I think that we are indeed facing an even greater base erosion. I am not prepared, politically speaking, to assume that we are going to give even greater relief to businesses, without the final added value being clear. With a statement as it is now, it is not sustainable. The Secretary of State had to do something. That per-element approach, which the Court of Justice gave to the foreign subsidiaries, was again unfair to Dutch companies. Because they have to choose the whole fiscal unit and cannot shop from different elements of the fiscal unit regime. That would not have been fair either; then Dutch companies would again have had an unfair disadvantage over foreign subsidiaries. So it is exactly as Mr Van Weyenberg says: doing nothing was not an option. I think it is important, also from our point of view, to be a little bit sparing on taxpayers' money, that we try to avoid this basic erosion of possibly hundreds of millions, even if it is now with patches.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u25	Very briefly, Mr. Chairman. That's why I'm saying this Secretary of State should have gone to war. Because the per-element scheme that was proposed was not fair to our things, but he accepted it far too quickly. With his feet up, he's abolished our fiscal unit. That's a great shame. He should have gone into battle with Brussels, with the Court, with the Supreme Court. He should have said: listen, I'm going to fight for our tax unit, because it means a lot of red tape for the Tax Administration.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u26	No. In my view, the Secretary of State, Mr Delors, has answered that question himself, I think he should make a risk assessment. If he had appealed, if the cabinet had not accepted it, the risk that that base erosion would have been much greater would also have been much greater. At some point, you have to look. This verdict is there. The Supreme Court has also asked questions about it and the lawyers agree that there is an unfair advantage. Then you're out of chance, I guess, and you should try to fix it as soon as possible. That's what's happening with this emergency repair.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u27	Thank you to Mr Snels for his detailed consideration of the future as well. I'll take him there for a while. questions about asking. I have already said to the Secretary of State: make sure that the benefits we have are preserved as much as possible. We should also see if we can fight back a bit. In this sense, I would like to join the colleague of the PVV, Mr Van Dijck. But my point is as follows. You say that this tax unit scheme is actually only an administrative burden reduction for taxpayers and also for the Tax Administration. The basis of the scheme is a much deeper one. I pointed that out, too. That is what Mr Van Dijck said, even though he said that you can compensate for profits and losses within one group in the domestic situation. The head office usually has high costs and the subsidiaries make one profit and the other loss. If it's one big group, you're gonna flip it all with each other. There are a number of plus companies and a number of minus companies. The head office is usually in the minus. You're making it one piece. That has nothing to do with tax evasion or anything. It's administratively easy. It's actually a beauty of a system. We have few systems that we believe everyone is happy with because it is logical, feasible and very insightful. I'll make a plea, too. The Secretary of State looks at me cheerfully; it doesn't happen every day. If we are able together to bring the new regulation back as far as possible and as close as possible to what we had, then here is a satisfied Member of Parliament. I share a number of questions with you, but I would like to say with Mr Van Dijck that it is not just an administrative matter. It is primarily the consolidation of companies, subsidiaries with profits and subsidiaries with losses and headquarters. That is a unique arrangement and we must preserve that crown jewel. I think I wanted to emphasise that with colleagues here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u28	Mr. Snels, very briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u29	Sure. What I wanted to emphasise is that in crown jewelry, too, you must ultimately dare to ask fundamental questions. Since it is such a specific Dutch crown jewel, you will soon have to ask the question in the new group scheme whether it is ultimately applicable in European law, for example. Then you cannot say: this is what we in the Netherlands have ever thought of, this is special and unique; whatever Europe and European law say, we do not care. That means you have to dare to ask those fundamental questions a little deeper. That's actually all I've been trying to tell you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u30	Mr. Van Rooijen, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u31	I think that Mr Snels did not mean that I suggested that we should not give a damn about EU law. I don't think that's what he meant. I have also had to accept zeros, but that does not mean that you should not do everything in the whole debate not only in the Netherlands but also in Europe to maintain that system as much as possible, that crown jewel. I used the word "fight back." You need to see if you can find a basis in Europe so that an arrangement in Europe will come much closer to ours, which will make our old system more sustainable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u32	Sure. I'm with you right now. From the simple fiscal logic, you fit as closely as possible with real business activities. Then you can lose, interest, and so on. I understand all that, but in all sorts of adjacent areas, in company law, in corporate tax and in tax avoidance, you can see that companies are actually trying to come up with constructions and are tax driven to compensate, for example, as many losses as possible elsewhere in order to ultimately pay as little tax as possible. I am not sure whether all this is happening here, and I certainly do not think about the smaller companies and SMEs. But precisely because there are now relationships with foreign daughters, it is important to emphasize it from that side too. Do we want this basic erosion in this way again later under the new regime that the Secretary of State is going to develop? Or are we also looking at what it actually means for the basis and what it means in relation to European law?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u33	Thank you. We are now going to listen to the input of Mr Slootweg of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today there is a law before which many people in the Netherlands, I think, will not be happy; the SMEs, not the government, not the Tax Administration, nor my group. But we don't seem to have much choice in this. The tax unit, which is the subject of this law, is a crown jewel of the Dutch climate of establishment. On this point, I agree with many of my predecessors who have been here. Earlier, the government put it that way. A balance has been made with regard to the abolition of that crown jewel. Mrs Lodders and Mr Snels have asked questions about this. I would like to join in that. There is a statement that says 'the interest deduction should not be allowed in this way', while there would be possibilities in the case of currency gains, but can there be a little more in that balancing framework as to why certain elements are now included? However, the Court of Justice has held that the tax unit as known by the Netherlands is a breach of the freedom of establishment. The Netherlands is obliged to apply the tax unit to Article 10a of the Corporate Tax Act. With that judgment it is clear that it also applies to some other articles. That is what happens with this law by pretending that there is no fiscal unit for those articles. With that the shine is a bit off with this crown jewel. There is now very complicated legislation, which is only enforceable under conditions for the Tax Administration. One of those conditions is the specific review. I would, however, like to point out to the Secretary of State that our group is going to have a stomachache, that there is another point that is going to be subject to specific scrutiny. For the future, therefore, we must also consider a new form of fiscal unit or something similar. I would like to ask the Secretary of State what progress has been made on this matter. People are going to focus on this, but on the other hand there's probably news on the horizon as well. I think it would be a good thing if the Secretary of State could give us some indication of how far we are now. At the time of the written examination of this law, we had the hope that this complicated legislation would not be necessary. In our view, the Dutch Advocate General Wattel had made a very sharp conclusion, which could not be broken. The Court of Justice has made various false assumptions and, in our view, has misinterpreted Dutch tax law. But the Supreme Court has now delivered the judgment and it has followed the Court of Justice and not the Advocate General. To speak to De Rijdenende Judge: that is what we have to do with it. It is now clear that this legislative proposal is inevitable. In addition to the fact that the Supreme Court has now ruled, even more has changed since the report on the bill. Indeed, the review provides that the retroactive effect of the law does not go further than 1 January 2018. This means that the law does not enter into force within the most common accounting year. In the note following the report, a few more times the date of 25 October 2017, for example when purchasing a loss company before that date, is stated in relation to the application of Article 20a. Can the note be read in such a way that wherever "25 October 2017" is, this should be understood as "1 January 2018"? Mr. Chairman. Another question for SMEs. For SMEs, a temporary exception has been introduced for loans with less than €100,000 per year per fiscal unit. When adopting the law, this SME exception will apply until 1 January 2019. However, that is already over. Entrepreneurs must therefore be consulted with an advisor before a law has been passed by the States General, because this is really not easy for them to discuss whether to take action. If loans are to be repaid, they must have been repaid by now. I would therefore like to ask the Secretary of State if he can be generous towards SMEs, because this law, which is designed to prevent budgetary losses, is not intended for small businesses. It is the international companies that could rely on the Court's judgment. Moreover, SMEs are already busy enough with the Brexit. For this reason, I ask the Secretary of State to give SMEs some extra time. What does this temporary exception mean for loans in the context of company successions? Are loans in the context of company succession often also within the fiscal unit? Is it possible to redeem in the short term and is the limit of €100,000 sufficient? Mr. Chairman. Mr Snels indicated how the budget should be aligned. I have a question to ask, but just from a different angle. Is the choice that has now been made not an implicit burden increase? I hope the Secretary of State can shed some light on that. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I have a very technical question for the sake of feasibility. Should Article 20a Vpb consider a 30% or more change of interest compared to 1 January 2018 or the oldest year of loss? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. Slootweg. I shall now be the last to give the floor in this period to Mr Nijboer of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There are a lot of crown jewels in politics, but with the tax experts the tax unit is one of them. Today, that word has often fallen. But when the PvdA group looks at this system in which a new emergency dressing is now being installed, it is more reminiscent of a rusty chain that rattles on all sides than of a crown jewel. Moreover, crown jewels often do not end well in politics. Mr. Chairman. Why are we so critical? We are not so much critical of this emergency link as it simply needs to be laid down. Otherwise, we're gonna run out of gas. However, we are critical of the law which has now become the fiscal unit. When the tax unit was adapted in recent years, my then colleague, Mr Groot, already pushed the cabinet and asked very precisely whether there would be new ways of circumventing it, whether we would not get into trouble again and whether this European law would stand. And that's exactly what went wrong. The question to the cabinet is: how is that possible? How could this have happened again? How can it be that 372 million more have been put into emergency action, otherwise this amount would not have been increased by tax money from companies, which would otherwise have come in? Mr. Chairman. I can tell you that if this happens with the assistance, with the rent allowance or somewhere else, there will be a cut-off elsewhere. But now companies are going back... Advantage of the bank for the risk of the government. I don't think that's a good thing. I and the PvdA believe that the cabinet should think of a new system, which must meet a number of conditions. The yield should be a little stable. Of course, the tax revenue moves with it if it goes better or less economically, but now we have a hole in one go. That's not the first time. That's the first condition. Two. It's got to be executable. On that point, I have questions about this proposal. If you're reading the IRS review, I'm not gonna get excited about it. That's kind of worrying. In fact, they say that in two years' time we will have to accept that this is going to be difficult. This is not going to be easier, because this amendment will not make this law any easier. This one gets harder rather than easier. This adaptation is necessary, because otherwise we will be empty, but this law will become more difficult than easier. Shouldn't it be much simpler? The third condition is that the relationship between large business and SMEs should be reasonable. The large company is often looking for ways of avoiding tax here too. So the fourth criterion is that it must also be sustainable internationally. Mr. Chairman. In short, the PvdA has some concerns about the fiscal unit. We'll support this law, because it has to be repaired. There are fine words from the cabinet in the answer. Parliamentary questions have been answered quite extensively in the note on the basis of the report. You could see by the law that it is an emergency law, but more information emerged in the note following the report. There are quite some concerns as to whether this is sustainable and whether the term "crowd jewel" is appropriate. As far as I am concerned, it is really something we need to get rid of, which needs to be more sustainable internationally and which needs to be more stable in revenue. That will be quite complex in terms of taxation, but as far as I am concerned, the cabinet should have gone further than it is today, and it is now on the blisters that Mr Groot had already foreseen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u37	Crown Jewelry or rusty necklace...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u38	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u39	I'd rather keep looking at crown jewels that shine. I thought you could polish jewelry too. My question to the colleague is whether he does not want to think about sharpening the jewel instead of saying: let us throw away that rusty necklace. As I have just indicated, the scheme has been primarily for domestic use, for all businesses, especially for SMEs. It's about the normal companies. We are not primarily talking about multinationals; we are talking about the many healthy Dutch companies that are happy with the Tax Administration, because we have such an arrangement. Let's please try to keep that arrangement. If there is a budgetary leak in the regulation now or in the future, then we are in a variety of ways able and willing to do repair legislation with the Secretary of State and the Ministry. In other words, try to preserve the crown jewel, scrap it and tackle constructions, but do not say: let's rethink the whole regime in principle and perhaps abolish it, because there are leaks here and there for multinationals; get rid of it. Would you like to respond to that? 'Cause I think this is too easy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u40	I find the thing.. the jewel, if you like... repaired. It's been amazed and adjusted over and over again. That thing isn't to be seen anymore. No one wants to wear it. It is therefore impossible, and it is becoming increasingly difficult to implement. That's what we see: the IRS beeps and cracks. We often talk about this with the Secretary of State. This is part of that, too. That's one. The second reason is that the international environment has changed. You can see that no country in the world has this. So it doesn't fit the Netherlands at all. In debates we always hear: The Netherlands has a lot of multinationals and is an international trading country; we should not make separate Dutch legislation, because it has to be a bit in line with international practice, whether you are talking about accountancy or otherwise. That fits here, too. So that thing is no longer sustainable. There's got to be something else to replace it. That's for sure. That's all pretty complicated. I will give you all that; I cannot give you that very precise description here either. So I have outlined a number of conditions, but I do think that this thing with adjustments no longer stands. That thing is no longer to be seen, Mr. Van Rooijen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u41	May I then give you some thought to including the following example? We have recently discussed in the Tax Plan, by the way, in a European context, the large reduction of interest subsidies to 30% of the EBITDA; I would like to make it very brief. This is an example that shows that you can take measures to deal with the risks at the edge of taxation and also with the fiscal unit. That is a very good example that shows that with such an intervention, which we were all for, at least almost all of us can grind up. Would you like to respond to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u42	We have wholeheartedly supported this. I complimented the cabinet for that, too. This is about burdening debt and equity more equally and adapting existing legislation to that effect. If there are proposals in the right direction... We will also vote in favour of this bill. It's a restriction, or we're gonna empty. That's what I said. Of course you can always improve things, but I think the tax unit in itself has had its longest time in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u43	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u44	Short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u45	Are you prepared to watch with us how to make the interests of the Dutch business community more important than I am talking about the hundreds of thousands of ordinary, normal companies on which the Netherlands is running, can make a heavy contribution to the assessment of a future arrangement? I am very concerned about your attitude, because you say it is a rusty chain; away with it. I would like us to keep this system as well as possible and, wherever possible, to fight back at European level to make this crown jewel shine more.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u46	We really disagree on that. What Mr Van Rooijen is right, of course, is that employment is important, but I also think it is very important that multinationals and large companies pay their taxes neatly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u47	I will go further where Mr Van Rooijen has gone, because I share Mr Van Rooijen's concern towards Mr Nijboer. I think there is an image here as if we are talking about large business again, but when we look at the fiscal unit, we see that SMEs, small and medium-sized enterprises, in particular, are making use of it. I am also looking in the direction of the Secretary of State, because I would like to have confirmation of this. Why is that? To reduce administrative burdens. Why? To ensure that the Tax Administration can deal with small and medium-sized enterprises in an efficient way. I think it is 83%, but I would like to hear it from the Secretary of State later. I find the image that Mr Nijboer is putting here, as if it were just the big business that is taking advantage of this, a real disqualification of our SMEs, who are making people have jobs there, there is employment and there is investment in this country again.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u48	I would like to meet Mrs Lodders in such a way that, of course, there are a lot of SMEs that use it nicely and that it works fine. Only I bring it up, and that is what is now apparent from such a European statement, that such a national system that you have developed and which is very complicated is being used by some companies or abused to pay less taxes. That is why we now have a €372 million bleeder that suddenly needs to be closed. This is not the case for SMEs. In fact, I have just asked the Secretary of State to pay explicit attention to this. Don't they become the child of the account? So I agree with you that it is not a huge abuse vehicle, but it is being abused, and I think that European law is no longer sustainable, even in terms of implementation. I also saw Mrs Lodders nodding in this: how is the Tax Administration going to implement this emergency legislation again with emergency measures?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u49	I welcome these words by Mr Nijboer; it is thus a little clearer in the direction of the facts. It is particularly important for SMEs. The fact that we have been flogged back is a great pity, and we have to do a repair on that. But once again, to set the tax unit as impossible for the Tax Administration, no, I don't share that. I would like to hear the views of the Secretary of State once again. It is in particular the execution test of this repair law. I have also asked a number of questions about this and the other colleagues have done so. I think we will be hearing about this shortly. But I find it really inadequate to put the instrument of fiscal unity in such a way. So at least thank you for the concession.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u50	Please, but this thing is taped together. It has been amended and adjusted so many times that it is really a problem, even in an international context.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u51	Mr Nijboer continued his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u52	This is it. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u53	Thank you very much. We are now going to suspend until 11.45 p.m. and then we are going to listen to the answer given by the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u54	I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Today we are talking about the draft law on emergency tax repair. I would like to say from this point of view that I appreciate all the Members of Parliament who have asked the questions in an understandable language. They, we and I understand that this is a very technical proposal based on many Court rulings. This sometimes makes the discussion difficult, but today we have succeeded very well in the questioning and in the discussion so far. I will try to draw up this same line and keep it as understandable as possible. And if that doesn't work once or twice, Mr President, I hope you'll forgive me. Let me start with the core of the story. It is very good to describe it again from the legislator's perspective. The core of the corporate tax unit is that a group of Dutch corporate tax payers makes a declaration as if it were a single taxable person. This is often very much in line with economic reality. We do not think it should be fiscally important for a group to take up its business in a single company or choose to distribute it to several companies. Indeed, there are about 100,000 tax units, with about 200,000 subsidiaries. This means that not only for these companies, but also for the tax authorities, there are 200,000 returns less because we know about this scheme. The tax regime................................................................................................................................................................. Mrs Lodders was practically there: 87% of the 100,000 tax units are active in the SME segment. Thus, the majority of the companies that use them are active in SMEs. The fiscal unit: we have just heard a number of different qualifications, from crown jewel to rusty chain. Let me put it this way: she is and remains an incredibly important element for the reason I have mentioned. We know that, too. But it is also so, and then we can nod a little towards Mr Nijboer that this tax unit of European law has been under attack for many years and that there have been a lot of judgments that each time amount to the question of whether you treat the situation in the country the same as situations abroad. I will not go through all the judgments of the Court, but I think it is just as good to indicate what the development was like. I think it started in 2010. So that was over eight years ago. At that time, the Court actually indicated that the Netherlands did not have to offset losses for Belgian subsidiaries. That was very important, because it did not allow the current system of cross-border taxation to be more or less settled by the Court. However, in 2011 and 2012, the Supreme Court ruled, on the basis of the same judgment, that all benefits inherent in a tax unit may be limited to domestic situations. So actually there was another kind of further coverage that said: we are looking at this particular case and we do see that that is possible. So that's why we could go a few years further with that arrangement. However, in 2016, there were several judgments of the European Court of Justice and they said that we should really extend the fiscal unitary regime to other structures. And then there were all kinds of very complicated things like sister tax units and tax units with foreign intermediaries. I will not go into any of this, but it made the complexity of the scheme, which we were just talking about, very quickly increased in 2016 and thus made the scheme less transparent. Today we are actually talking about legislation that is the result of the ruling of the European Court of Justice of 22 February last year in which the Dutch fiscal unit was once again examined. As a result of that judgment, we were actually able to make two choices. I think they were rightly endorsed by several Members of Parliament. Or we could give the cross-border advantage to everything and everyone, but that had quite a budgetary consequence and, in our opinion, would lead to a lot of basic erosion because of the structures to be formed, which could then go through a foreign subsidiary or we had to find the solution in limiting the advantage given to domestic companies. Of course, that was painful, but it was necessary. Ultimately, it is clear what the cabinet has chosen: for the second option. That was also important, because we knew that there was a budgetary gap at the time of that ruling because we were going to have to allow all kinds of interest deductions for foreign daughters. That was also the reason why we finally chose to do it on a stand-by basis and to apply some retroactivity to it. I'll tell you a little bit later about the exact balance and the retroactive effect. But I realize very well that it is important to tell the Chamber that these proposed repair measures are painful and have many disadvantages. And that is not only from the administrative burden, but also from the implementation burden. And it actually reduces an element that we thought was very important: the attractiveness of the fiscal unit. This tax unit was simply extremely practical for tax practice as a scheme, and of course especially for SMEs. That is why we have included a transitional measure that has tried to ease the pain for the largest group, SMEs. As I said, 87% of that group of 100,000 is SMEs. And although we don't have to connect 100% one-on-one, we know that 88% of the companies affected by the introduction of that threshold of €100,000 in interest payments for those connected loans were actually exempted. Thus, most of the people working in SMEs were no longer affected by this adjustment. Also, in the review of the package, we finally postponed the retroactive effect of the day of the Court ruling in October 2017 until 1 January 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u56	Mr. Chairman. If it really hurts SMEs so much and the threshold of €100,000 that relieves pain for SMEs, why does the Secretary of State not continue that threshold until he comes up with a new group regime? That's what I suggested in my first term. Then the stinger is out of pain, and we may have spared the tax authorities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u57	I've got a whole block on that, and I was about to announce it. So if that's okay with you... Then I might be able to build it up a little bit, instead of giving a very specific answer to this point. But I'm sure I'll get back to you. And if I don't, I'm sure Mr Van Dijck will hold me to that. The latter is a kind of preamble before I come to the specific questions. There were also a number of comments concerning whether that tax unit was purely tax-driven, and whether there were also non-fiscal reasons to include the activities of one group of companies in one company rather than in several companies. The answer is yes, and that is very often the case. I would like to mention a number of them. This does not mean that taxation cannot also be a reason, but apart from that, a lot of companies will opt for it for another reason. For example, the prevention of administrative burdens, which I just mentioned. Or because they themselves like to separate diversified activities within a group. Think of a bicycle shop and an ice cream shop, which alternate in the year, which are one e.g. and are in one store, while at the same time they want to house it under different corporate structures. That's a very logical reason. The same applies to the separation of assets. You can decide that you prefer to keep certain assets in an e.g. rather than at group level. It may also be that you are trying to get attractive external financing, with the scale of your assets in your balance sheet giving you an advantage. All this is not really purely fiscal, but it is financial or just very practical. But those reasons are real, and for that reason they were always used. And taxation, as we as legislator think, should not therefore be an obstacle to combating this type of group formation, which takes place for very other valid, non-fiscal reasons. And that is why the tax unit scheme also aims to be consistent with the reality in which the taxable person wishes to act as a group, where appropriate. It is, say, the group idea that we want to treat neutrally. Then I have some cubes, Mr. Chairman. Maybe it'll help if I tell you which one they're about to be. Just for a minute. What exactly are we gonna do, and why are we just taking care of it now? There were some questions about that too. Then the block of retroactivity. Then there was the budgetary block, which was a number of questions. The block after that is execution. We have just talked about what this means for the feasibility of the scheme. Finally, where are we in the formation of the new group regime? And as always, there's the other block for the questions I didn't know how to put in a block so quickly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u58	Mr. Chairman. It's a more fundamental question, but he comes to mind and doesn't necessarily need to be answered now. I think that ice cream shop and that bicycle shop is an interesting example. The Secretary of State says that there may be reasons why this is ultimately a fiscal unit. That's not tax-driven. But it can also be tax-driven. Perhaps this ice cream shop is heavily loss-making and is used to reduce profits at the bicycle shop, without any other business logic. Then it is slowly but surely a construction that is used to pay as little tax as possible. That is, of course, one of the more fundamental questions I am asking about fiscal unity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u59	At the risk of going all the way through the situation of the ice cream shop, there may eventually be fiscal reasons for not finding it wrong to organise the activities in one group. Moreover, two relatively small companies wishing to operate in one group do not benefit from the Vpb. A tax unit therefore does not only bring benefits. There may be some drawbacks, too. The essence is that there can be a lot of reasons for bringing something together. That is the fundamental core of what we are doing. We do not think that taxation should be an obstacle to this, but that is what we often consider in tax legislation to be a freedom of thought as to whether or not you want to be a group. If, in the end, something is constructed that is also fiscally attractive, that's okay. We don't mind that either. You could have taken care of it differently. The point is that we do not want to hinder things. We do not want to make it compulsory from the point of view of taxation that something should not be done in one group. That's the central reason why we're here. In the budgetary field, we may be able to speak even more deeply about this point. Then I come to a number of more specific questions. For example, Mrs Lodder asked why more is being repaired than just the direct consequences of the judgment. Why are we doing more than just Article 10a? Mr Slootweg also asked about it. Mr Snels also asked for it, but in fact precisely from the other side, namely whether we should not go further forward. Those are all legitimate questions. It's also been a trade-off. We have a court ruling. You have to try to apply it to the practice. Such a court ruling is about a specific case. We try to identify those elements that can affect other cases. Then you come to some sort of proposal about what you're going to do. I believe that this per-element approach to the tax part, which has been accepted by the Court of Justice and confirmed by the Supreme Court, is an important element. This was also the reason why other schemes within the corporate tax system were put under pressure. Very domestic, it comes down to the following. The Supreme Court actually says you can choose. If it gives you an advantage, instead of using the entire fiscal unit, you can use a part of it to your advantage. We can say: if you make that choice, you should actually choose the whole fiscal unit. But the Court and later the Supreme Court have confirmed that this is not the case. If they think so, we know that this also applies to other parts of corporate tax. In this way, I will give you a very small look ahead to the new legislation: this makes it very difficult for us, because this measure seems to be about a very specific part, but actually touches the heart of the Vpb. This isn't just about Article 10a. It is about that per-element approach and everything that it can mean for the way in which we should look at tax legislation. As a result, it rapidly deepens into the capillaries of the Vpb. That is why we said so carefully that we must do something now, but that this can never be the final step. I will come back later on to how we intend to do this more definitively. So we also know that without additional urgent repair measures, the erosion of the Dutch tax base could be facilitated. Apart from the direct budgetary loss, there was also a fear that could be constructed on it. Such a budgetary risk was not acceptable. Therefore, the choice was made to repair the direct consequences of the ruling and to examine the most vulnerable elements, in the opinion of the Cabinet, of this tax regime. So that's a little of our consideration. We immediately admit that I believe that the word "spatters" was called "spatters" and that it is a bit of plaster. It really has become emergency legislation. It's important, but this can't be the end step. The confirmation of the ruling of the Supreme Court helped greatly, by the way. It gave a lot of clarity, as we know, to the sector itself, which was working on it. So that was helpful. Then Mr Snels asked about those less vulnerable elements: why were they judged differently, so to speak, than those fragile elements? He asked, "What was the difference?" As has already been said, emergency repair measures for the future avoid the most acute budgetary problems. They are therefore reflected in the most vulnerable elements we consider to be. In the foreseeable future, the fiscal unitary regime will be followed by a more definitive one, as I said earlier. It must then be more practical and legally sustainable in the future than what we are doing now. For some other elements of the fiscal unitary regime that have not yet been taken into account, it remains to be seen to what extent they are contrary to European law and, for example, whether there is a justification for keeping them. For this, we simply need to keep a close eye on developments in practice. And if it turns out that there is still an element that is no longer sound, then we will have to adapt it. Moreover, we do not yet have any concrete indications that there are already elements that we have not yet taken into account in this adaptation. At the same time, however, it is really important to keep saying that we need to keep a close eye on whether practice does not turn out to be things that are different from what we thought. In order to confirm this, no cases have yet been brought before the European Court with regard to Dutch tax-unit schemes. So that actually indicates that we think we have the right line at the moment. And if additional repair legislation is found to be necessary, it will not have retroactive effect until 1 January 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u60	Thank you for the answers; very clear. But very sharp. Did "vulnerable" mean for the cabinet: where are the biggest budgetary risks? Or was it also looked at where the legal risks are? Because with these judgments of the Court and with this repair law, of course, the light is also on this legislation and on these facilities. That can provoke companies to think: I'll go to court, because there might still be a gap here or there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u61	Once again, the budgetary reason that we saw immediately, and that was, of course, the most important consideration, was to include those elements that we knew would be damaged. But we also know, and this may have to do with the history that I have just tried to outline, that several judgments of the Court led to another look at how we set up this fiscal unitary regime. This leads to elements that we think are: they are now so often very, half or three quarters, that they think that sooner or later they are going down, so to speak. That is actually a bit along the lines of what Mr Nijboer said about it: sometimes you have to try to get ahead, even though it may not necessarily be necessary now because there is damage, but you are pretty sure that it will come at some point. That is why we want to set up a single scheme, which is more future-proof than "the crown jewel" that we had. Then there was a question from Mr Van Dijck. In fact, I think he said: why is repair still needed on some parts, because in 2019, for example, various new interest relief restrictions have already been introduced in the legislation? Well, of course, that has some to do with that transition year. Also for 2018, i.e. from 1 January 2018 to 2019, you should have that budgetary impact. We chose not to want to go through it. Moreover, the measures of ATAD1 have not led to the abolition of Article 10a. That's the profit drainage article. I'm trying to stay out of technology again, but that's what the procedure was about. Moreover, there is still a need for urgent repair in other areas. Think of the scheme for non-qualifying investment participations that came along as early as today: the scheme to prevent trade in loss assets and the reduction in the payment of dividends. That is all very technical, but that is to say that there are really a number of regulations that remain necessary. Exactly how many companies are being spared? That is what I have just dealt with: that is the 88%. So if we had 100,000 tax units, you'd say 88,000 tax units were softened by the transitional measures in their pain. At the same time, 12% of these companies still need adjustments. To this end, extending that transitional measure until 1 January 2019 was useful, as it allowed them a lot of time to shape the necessary adjustments they would like to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u62	The Secretary of State spoke out in the last sentence. He intended to extend that transitional measure until 1 January 2018. He said 2019. I have a question about 2019. When I listen to the stakeholders in the field, including the Tax Administration, they all argue for the transition period until 2019. They do this because of the enforcement, because of the red tape, because you can't merge retroactively and all of that stuff. In other words, is the Secretary of State prepared to take another look at this, is he prepared to set the starting date on 1 January 2019? So what are the risks and what is the loss of costs for the State?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u63	I don't have the information on the exact cost loss, because that's not the reality we have right now. But, as I said, the risks of budgetary losses are very high. That is why we want to give people time to adapt, but we cannot open the whole scheme for another year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u64	I don't think the risks are that great. Because everyone already thinks it will be 1 January 2018, there is no abuse. People know you'll run into trouble, at least if the IRS maintained it properly. So I guess it's not that bad with the risks. That is why everyone would be greatly helped if it simply entered into force on 1 January 2019, partly because of those interest relief measures that only start in 2019, which therefore cannot be abused in 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u65	We do believe that these budgetary risks exist. We could bet they're not that bad, but we'd rather not. Moreover, we have already communicated and indicated very clearly, from the day of the judgment, what that could mean. We know that there would be a problem, among other things, because of that postponed financial year. Moreover, I will be speaking in a moment about the financial year that has been broken in the future. We said: okay, let's do it until 1 January 2018. At the same time, we have also indicated that there should be no problem for most SMEs, because we have given them longer time to put their actions in order.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u66	The Secretary of State continues his speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u67	Mr Snels asked whether the measures taken by the companies themselves to limit the effects of the emergency repair measure were not contrary to European law. At least that is how I understood his question. The short answer would be "no." The slightly longer answer to this is that we believe that the impact of the emergency repair measure can also be limited for cross-border EU situations. This can be done, for example, by means of a cross-border legal merger between the creditor and the debtor, so that the debt position automatically disappears because the claim and the debt come into one hand. I realize this is getting a little technical after all. In addition, for example, the repayment of the loan or the conversion of the loan into equity can further limit the impact on EU cross-border situations. As a result of the emergency repair measure, there is no difference in treatment between the domestic situation and the EU cross-border situation, as the cabinet has not chosen to give a cross-border advantage that already existed internally. However, the cabinet has chosen to retain the advantage of domestic relations. We believe that the disadvantage for companies in domestic conditions ultimately outweighs the advantage that cross-border operating companies can gain without the emergency repair measure. Mrs Lodders had another question about the monitoring. What are we gonna run into? Is customization still possible? As I have just said, all experience of emergency repair is closely monitored. This is not only happening when we transpose it, but it is happening until we get to the more definitive legislation. I will continue to take into account the experience gained in the application of this legislative proposal in the consideration that plays a role in the design of such a new group scheme. I am happy to say that to Mrs Lodder. In the foreseeable future, the emergency repair measures will be followed by a more definitive group regime. But before that happens, I am therefore going to repeat this monitoring. She also asked for examples. For example, the current benefits of the tax unit are also taken into account in the new group scheme. That is a small step forward in my speech. It was actually about: are we going to try to keep the good elements while we're just repairing them? The answer is so much more comprehensive, but of course we want to preserve as much as possible the elements on which we were all satisfied.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u68	Thanks for the answer. Let's get back to the monitoring. It is an important commitment, because I had prepared a motion to submit it in the second term, but I think this commitment is sufficient. I'll also take a look at the fellow petitioners of the motion. But when will the Chamber be informed of progress? I do not want to link it to a fixed moment, but I think it is important, for example, to receive a letter with the initial findings in the course of this year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u69	Next week we will have a first more extensive discussion with the whole of the Netherlands, with consultants and business, to get a little more impression of: if we are going to change the story towards a more future-proof group arrangement, how can we do that? We will also ask in that conversation: until the time comes, what do you see as the greatest elements that we need to look at? I can well imagine that we will wait and see, gather together with our own experiences on this issue, of course, and that we will come back to it in a letter or in a debate a little more in the course of the year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u70	Fine, but I would like to agree with the Secretary of State that we will receive a letter after the summer, for example. Then we also have the opportunity to set it up in a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u71	Okay. I say so on this occasion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u72	Mr. Chairman. In addition, because I am a co-signator of Mrs Lodder's motion, which has not been tabled, on the experience of this urgent repair for the future discussion. In view of the more fundamental questions that I and Mr Nijboer have put, I think it is right that we should have some sort of broad-based debate, including the experience with the emergency law, before we start discussing the law in 2021. I therefore call for a more strategic letter on how we deal with legislation in the future. A commitment on that point seems very important to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u73	It's very good together. We already have ideas about what new legislation should comply with and along which lines it should run, but at the same time we do not want to do so from an ivory tower. We also want to know what, according to business and consultants, we are going to run into. These more structural and strategic discussions are guaranteed to be discussed, because what new arrangements do we intend to introduce and what do we stand for? I think that the promised letter after the summer can also contain these elements. Then we can debate it. That seems to me to be very useful, although the legislation will not be ready, because it is really very fundamental. I understand that people are worried and that people think that it should not take too long. We're worried too. We also want this legislation as soon as possible, but if we have learned one thing from that series of court rulings, then it is that, if we do it too quickly, we might be putting the horse behind the cart. The establishment of a more future-proof scheme means that we really understand very deeply that it is a very important scheme for SMEs in practice in particular. Mr Nijboer had a question about, if I may paraphrase him: why now? His colleague Groot had already seen it all coming, including all those court rulings and those of the AG. I think Mr Groot is very good at that. I'll give him that. He foresaw the direction of what the judgments were about, although sometimes it went up and down a bit. I'd almost say you win some, you lose some. We knew there was a board of directors. Of course, we found the last statement very uncomfortable, the fact that you can apply a per-element approach in this way. We felt that the case law went that way, but we found it unpleasant in the end. My predecessors have also given some thought to the risks involved in the various treatments, especially the per-element approach. The judgment in Groupe Steria was, in my opinion, the big case at the time. At that time, I think we knew: if the per-element approach continues, it will become so complex for the implementation and application of our own legislation that it is almost impossible to definitively anticipate what that might mean. At that time, it was actively and consciously chosen to allow case law to go a little further and to ask for an explanation of what was meant by it. The Supreme Court recently gave some of that explanation. This is important for us, but it is also important for the interpretation of the whole tax practice, where people were really worried about the ruling of the Supreme Court in the weeks and months. Much more clarity has now been obtained, which was also wanted. Speaking of the Supreme Court, I would like to add my voice to Mr Van Dijck's question. He wanted me to appeal that verdict. As you know, that's difficult for the Supreme Court. Then the appeal possibilities for us will stop a little bit. So you couldn't. At the same time, we have done our best to highlight the importance of the scheme in the past, which is very important. We have also made clear our approach to tax unity in Europe in all previous proposals. But at the end of the day, unfortunately, for us, it is no different than that we have to accept this statement. We must try to preserve the elements we were so proud of, and I think it is a crown jewel. Then I come to the second block, the retroactivity. Mr Van Dijck asked if we could have a longer transitional right: until 2019 or perhaps even longer. I have already indicated a little bit that we thought that this would lead to a great budgetary loss. We don't know exactly, but we're thinking about about about 100 million. That depends on behavioral effects: who else is going to use them? Are people gonna build something for a year? Moreover, we thought that the 100 million would be of particular benefit to large businesses. SMEs have already suffered less from it and are also less from structuring. Moreover, the further limitation of retroactivity may also encourage unwanted anticipation, as I have just said. I don't think I'm gonna repeat myself. The most important thing was that there were budgetary considerations, certainly, but there were also other risks that we saw. They were mainly in the area of tax avoidance by international companies. That was also why we decided not to let that continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u74	I indicated earlier that the question of'retrospective or non-retrospective' should not have the primacy or influence of the budget, unless it takes extreme form. There may always be exceptions to a rule. Now the Secretary of State says, as the documents show, it is 100 million. I think it is very easy for him to say: it is 100 million, it comes to larger companies and less to SMEs, and so we find retroactive force quite acceptable. I think that is a worrying remark. I think I have made it clear that retroactive effect in tax law is actually not permissible in the case of increased burden on citizens and/or businesses. I also announced a motion on it. I think 100 million against a legal principle is wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u75	I understand very well and I have also heard the announcement of the motion. By the way, Mr Van Rooijen knows that we are in complete agreement with what he has just said, namely that you must be extremely careful to apply retroactive force to citizens or businesses when the budgetary consequences are negative. As I said, it is not just a budgetary recital. In addition, it is also a consideration that we thought there was still a door open in the form of all kinds of constructions. For this reason, too, we thought it was important to communicate very clearly on the day of the judgment: this is it. That is more the structural, anticipating effect. We hoped that all these new structures could no longer be prevented through foreign daughters. That was the plan. At the same time, we have found room to absorb part of the budgetary losses between 25 October 2017 and 1 January 2018. I'm glad of that, too, in all honesty. In any case, there could be a solution for the broken financial years. This allowed the various companies to prepare for the new reality.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u76	Well, let me ask you another question. The Secretary of State says, apart from the budgetary amount of EUR 100 million, that there were also new opportunities to make it worse, by anticipating it and so on. Then it would have been reasonable for Finance, the Secretary of State, to have come forward with an emergency measure much earlier and to have said: 'We are afraid of it and we close those leaks in advance'? Now the bill is being delayed for a long time, while the judgment has been there for a long time, and it is now said retroactively: because we are late, we must accept retroactivity. I think you should come up with emergency legislation to fix that. That's the royal road.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u77	So I do not entirely agree, as you will understand. It is true that in October it became clear what it was about... Of course, the Court of Justice had to give its final ruling on this matter, and it did not do so until 22 February. But at that point we knew that if we didn't do something, there would be not only an occasional hole, but a structural hole of potential new structures that we didn't want. Then we announced that and indeed in anticipation of what eventually... So I think we started on time. That was right before this cabinet started, by the way. That's when it happened. I will say something about the burden relevance to Mr Snels as well. But at that time, there was already anticipating legislation, knowing whether it was taking into account that in the end in February I do not know whether we would be able to reach a ruling on this matter by the Court of Justice at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u78	I think this is a little scary, too. The Secretary of State is talking about hundreds of millions if we didn't do this. About 2018 he's suddenly talking about 100 million, but he has no idea. It's pure wet fingering. And now he gives the reason why a lot of companies... I said it: VNO-NCW and a lot of companies also indicate that this is an unsuitable thing, not only for us, but also for the Tax Administration. In other words, you place an impossible task on SMEs and the Tax Administration; you take a wet finger and you say: 100 million will cost me otherwise, which is not based on anything. I mean, it makes sense to go through that one time, take a serious look at it, right? The fact that companies did not anticipate on that date of 1 January 2019 also automatically means hardly any abuse, because everyone assumes that it is 1 January 2018.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u79	Two answers. One, Mr Van Dijck, quotes again: 'I thought we had put that element of the discussion behind us by now, 'a lot of SMEs', but we have taken the transitional arrangements for those SMEs. So 88% of the total didn't suffer from that. We have, say, exempted from those burdens, so we should not bring them into this. For the second part: it's very difficult. Why can't we have a precise... Look, you can measure afterwards how many frogs there are in a wheelbarrow. You can measure that. Or how many people walk through a gate. But what you don't know is, suppose we paint that little gate green, how many more people are going to walk through that gate. You don't know that. You may have suspicions, of: we have seen things in the past and know that there is a possibility to calculate loss accounts to the Netherlands. There wasn't that possibility before that. Eventually, tax advisors also have some code that they have to adhere to, but legally that would be possible at the time and so we assume that part of it also uses. That's no better than wet fingering. I could pretend to be able to prove that academically, but of course, that's never possible. It's looking into the future. What would happen if you opened a door, and then we came to 100 million on the basis of experience. That's not scary. I think it is trying to be realistic in what legislation means for the behaviour of citizens and business.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u80	Mr Van Dijck, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u81	It is about the feasibility of this legislation. If something is not possible, both for the Tax Administration and for companies, then the Secretary of State has to deal with it and ask himself: can we not do something with it? And that transitional arrangement you're now referring to for SMEs, which might fix the financial damage, but it doesn't repair the unravelling of all those e.g. with those parent companies of those SMEs, to see if they make it to 100 million or not. In other words, it may be financial, but it will not be administrative at all. And my problem is that the Secretary of State is talking about $100 million, which is not based on anything. Maybe it's not that bad, or maybe it's 3 million, but that's what's gonna put the tax authorities back on their feet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u82	Two responses. One: it is not impossible to do this. I'll be right there. I was asked to make that very clear. In the end, a test has been done, and it emerges from this: under these conditions it is so feasible. I'll say a little more about that in a moment. The claim that it's impossible is not true. What we are doing now is feasible. That has indeed been considered. Again, I'll tell you more about that. That point, I think, is not justified. The other point is justified. Despite the fact that we have given SMEs more time to prepare themselves to shape these unravellings, if they are chosen, this legislation does indeed mean that something must be done for them in the long term. That's true. I can't deny that. That's annoying, but unfortunately it was no different. In any case, we have tried to avoid these companies as much as possible by the transitional measures we have now announced twice. But of course Mr Van Dijck was right about that. Mrs Lodders and Mr Van Weyenberg had questions about the broken accounting year. This may apply not only to the retroactive effect of that broken financial year 2017-2018 but also to subsequent years. Maybe it's good to tell you again what's going on. By far the majority of fiscal units have a financial year equal to the calendar year. There are indeed examples of companies that do not. In our calculation we assume about 5% of the tax units that have a broken accounting year. One in 20 does it differently. By the way, the largest companies in particular have a broken accounting year. The limitation of retroactivity has given them more time to anticipate the impact of the legislative proposal. We believe that further limitation of retroactivity will lead to the erosion of the tax base and further budgetary losses. We do not believe that the solution for the financial year in question can be found in extending the retroactive effect even further. The group is much smaller. Moreover, when it comes to keeping interest payments, for example, there is a fairly precise accounting of companies in this area. Anyway, companies have to look into their own accounts. But I'm afraid I can't make it prettier than it is. If we allow the law to enter into force somewhere on 1 January, as we usually do, then in the future there will continue to be an allocation in the company's financial year for these types of companies, which choose to build up their financial year in this way, to interest payments related to financing. Again, we think that many companies in themselves have a clear picture of what these calculations are like. But it's work, that's definitely true.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u83	I understand very well what the Secretary of State says. Further stretching will make it more complex again. I don't know if the following is a possibility or a solution. Could companies dealing with a broken accounting year be able to go back with retroactive effect and, for example, use the broken accounting year before 1 January, so that they can declare a closed year? I don't need an answer to that now, but if you can look at it in that way, you're not stretching towards the future, but in the past it might be an opportunity for companies that want it to be tailor-made.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u84	I do not have one-two-three answers to that, but we are taking this with us. We simply want to be helpful in this, because we understand that these administrative burdens are simply clumsy. We know that stretching that retroactive force to the future is not going to happen at some point. That's the point. But if there could be a handy way to change the retroactivity to the past, I am open to that, as far as possible. So I'm taking this suggestion with me. I'm gonna move on to the budget. Mr Snels had questions about the 372 million. What exactly is the deal with that? Let me go back: the 372 million is to be recovered from the 354 million from the first emergency operation and the 18 million, which we covered in the autumn package, as a result of extending the retroactive effect from 25 October to 1 January. The amount of 354 million is the incidental loss caused by the court's decision. This incidental amount is, in principle, burden-relevant, but at the time of that ruling, the cabinet has chosen to correct the burden framework for this. It has therefore not taken compensatory measures. So that decision is actually already in October, when we knew this was going to play, by the forming parties, I think. It was then decided: if it turns out that that statement is going that way, it will at least be corrected in the burden framework. Mr Van Dijck asked why the Court's judgment on emergency measures was not awaited. And he also asked for a precise justification of that 100 million. We just talked about the $100 million. It's really hard to justify this more precisely than we've already done. And why didn't we wait? That was a question from Mr Nijboer. Well, we didn't wait because we actually wanted to anticipate possible consequences. That is why we started back then, knowing that this could be one of the statements. Mr Slootweg actually asked: is there an implicit increase in the burden that we are bringing here? The answer to that question is no. With this repair we repair a gap that arose because internationally oriented companies could avoid this interest deduction limitation. Domestic tax units are affected by the repair, but it is expected that they will be able to adapt this by restructuring. However, there is still a small amount of revenue to be paid in because the larger companies needed time for the adjustments, and so they were partly still a bit affected. But let me put it this way: structuralally, the yield of this repair is zero. Mr Van Weyenberg asked whether this amount of €250 for administrative burdens is real, for example for the costs of displaying, for example, interest charges in one year or another. That's very hard to say. It is an average amount and comes from a standard cost calculation model. Many companies may say that it is far too little, but there will also be a number of companies where there are hardly any shifts. This will be relatively simple for these companies. So it's really based on a model calculation. So I will not say that we have calculated exactly for every company that it will cost so much. A few questions have been asked about the implementation. Mr Van Weyenberg asked questions on the question of feasibility, and I think Mr Van Dijck did the same. What exactly is it about? Is it feasible? So we have five emergency repair measures that are part of the bill. The tax authorities have said: they are all five feasible, but one of the five we have said: a number of conditions must be met before we think it can be done. Well, that'll do. Next, the Tax Administration says on the basis of a test: it is possible. But, yes, there are questions, because one of those conditions had to do with the way in which supervision was subsequently lifted. Lodders, Van Weyenberg, Van Dijck and I think Slootweg also asked what exactly happened with that so-called'selective supervision'. What are the consequences? Are there any other options? We must be careful not to create some kind of new term'selective supervision', because I do not think that is the intention. At least it doesn't mean there's no surveillance. It's just risk-driven supervision like we always do. It is certainly not an invitation to abuse, as was suggested. In fact, it means that, above all, there is no capacity for pre-consultation in the event that very specific interest rate deductions are involved. So basically the Tax Administration says: we can do this, but that does mean that there is one element that we are going to do less, and that is the pre-consultation for specific interest relief restrictions. This risk-based supervision will always take place afterwards by the Tax Administration, as is happening now. People sometimes say, "I have a little abdominal pain." I can see why they say that, because the term "selective surveillance" might sound more exciting than it is. Afterwards the service continues to do it, only for the pre-consultation is now slightly less capacity. Moreover, this scheme and this reduction in interest rates are subject to a threshold of €750,000, so it will certainly not be thousands and thousands of cases where there are no pre-consultations anymore. It is a much lower number and it is mainly about the larger companies. Moreover, they can often make an appointment with their tax advisors, as an alternative to that pre-consultation. So it was very consciously chosen to do so. Mr Van Weyenberg's follow-up question was: can companies still go to the service with their questions? The answer is yes. In general, pre-consultation is possible. Certainly later, when the bill is passed, it will be completely possible again. However, prior consultation for this excessive interest rate is not necessary. For an answer to the other questions, we hope that everyone will be able to contact the Tax Administration as best they can. We do our best to ensure that it gets better every day. Mrs Lodder asked: when will the adjustments of the Tax Administration be ready? I'm not sure I fully understand this question. But I have found an answer; hopefully that is an answer to the question she has asked. The necessary adjustments have been incorporated in the 2018 declaration so that the taxpayer can meet the obligations arising from this legislative proposal. There was also the question of whether extra attention is being paid to communication on this bill. Well, it was in the beginning. We have made quite a lot of communication about this, also a press release with the message: this is really going to mean something; realize that this can already have consequences. Although we have had this transitional arrangement to give it a little time. At the moment, we believe that the legislative proposal has received sufficient attention. It is widely known by tax advisors, by companies and by the Tax Administration, so we do not currently have any further communication campaign on this issue. Given the depth of interest in this subject, we do not feel that there was a lack of awareness.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u85	It was not clear from the written round whether the forms and the like had been modified. I hear that now, so that's fine as far as I'm concerned. I had a brief question, perhaps the Secretary of State will be able to discuss it: has the Decision also been amended?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u86	I think I'll get back to that on the block. I haven't read it yet, but I meant to. And if it isn't, I'm about to hear it. I was at a new block, the new group arrangement. We've already touched this one. There were several questions left by the Green Left Group, the 50PLUS Group and the CDA Group. I believe that the PvdA Group also had questions about this. It was actually about what the state of affairs is and what the preconditions are that we use. We have just indicated that it is good to talk about this in a broader sense when we have sent that letter. Then perhaps we can all make a weighting of what it was: a rusty necklace or a crown jewel. But the story is clear: we must have the common thread in the foreseeable future. We do not want to do that alone; we want to do that with everyone involved. I told you, we're starting a meeting next week. We think it is extremely important that we provide for a scheme that will also shape loss relief within a group. It is also international: we are not the only country. It is quite common internationally for countries to have a form of group regulation. That may not be as one as we had, but in itself having a group of companies and having your tax legislation applicable to it is not foreign internationally. We also try to take this foreign experience into account in the options we are looking at. As far as I am concerned, therefore, no option has already been definitively cut off. We really want to do this with open sight. There are, of course, a number of conditions that are important. We have already mentioned feasibility, both for the companies and for the auditor, the Tax Administration. We also want it to contribute to a good tax entrepreneurial environment. Of course, that is what it is meant to do, and we want to keep it as much as possible. That really is a prerequisite. Of course, there is the EU legal sustainability. In the meantime, we know how important it is that we really pay attention to this, that we are not somewhere on the edge and after two years we have to work again. We really don't want that. The budgetary consequences of these adjustments will also have to be reflected. These are a few of the conditions that I have already mentioned, but I am sure that we will be able to talk about this in more detail later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u87	And simplicity, I'd say. Simplicity, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u88	Yes. I say yes, but you hear a little bit of the comma. All the tax legislation we are making together from this moment on must be a starting point. When you think of something that seems beautiful, but which is almost impossible or incomprehensible, you're just wrong. I mentioned feasibility, but it's a bit about simplicity. At the same time, a very simple arrangement that no one is waiting for can also be asked if you want it. Anyway, I think we understand each other very well in that respect. It's definitely an element we'll take with us. Mr President, Mrs Lodder's final question on that point. She asked: is it really not possible to bring acceleration into the process? I often ask myself that question out loud, with the legislators involved. At the same time, as I said at the beginning, we must not go any faster than we should, despite the desire to find a solution quickly. That is the wish of everyone from the advisory practice, academic science, with us and the implementation. But again, pretty much the biggest team of legislators I have is being deployed for this bill. No one should underestimate the depth of these statements in our VPB system.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u89	During the whole debate, I have not heard the Secretary of State on the VAT tax unit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u90	As for the?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u91	The VAT. We're talking about the Vbp all the time now. Is VAT still at risk in the future? I am thinking in particular of the future framework for VAT across borders. No VAT will now be charged in cross-border cases. That's gonna change. Then our fiscal unit would be put under pressure again by an EU Court. Am I pre-empting a lot right now and seeing bears on the road? Or does the Secretary of State see danger there, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u92	No. The tax unit we are talking about has to do with the loss accounts and not, in fact, with VAT. Mr Van Dijck's question, if I may paraphrase him, is: can we expect such a statement in the area of corporation tax in the field of VAT? I think the answer to that is a little different. VAT is, of course, already a European tax. Many of these kinds of agreements we make together. Think of how you can make reverse charge arrangements within VAT. You can indeed place parts of the VAT at one country. I believe that good agreements have been made. I do not feel that, as with this scheme, we are facing a potential leak, but I will ask you again just to be sure. I don't think there's a causal link here. If it's any different, I'll get back to you in a minute. I just told you about the trial. We have a start meeting on February 14th, where everyone participates. We're gonna draw up a selection document. It also includes which organisations from the business community, which interest groups and which scientists have been interviewed. The choice document will hopefully be available even before the summer recess, I read here, so that industry, interest groups and science can give an initial response to that choice document in the summer and thereafter. In-depth discussions will be held as a result of this consultation. In short, we are really in the process of putting that all together. After the summer we will send a general letter, to name it so, to the House of Representatives, in which we will lay down the outline of what we have achieved up to that moment. That actually brings me back to the commitment I made to Mrs Lodders on this point. Mr President, my last small block of other questions. Then I hope I've had most of the questions. The decision on investment funds, which I believe Mr Van Rooijen was asking for. The answer is short: yes. The Decision on investment funds will be amended. As a result of the urgent repair measures, tax investment firms may in certain cases have to distribute more profits than is actually available. This profit has not already been realised in all cases. In order to avoid any further loss of profit that has not been realised, the Decision on investment funds shall be adapted accordingly. Once this proposal has been accepted by your Chamber, I will start it immediately. Then Mr Van Weyenberg would have established a relationship with the Brexit. More generally, I do not think that this is the time to discuss all the preparations for customs. He asked about that, too. I'm always happy to tell you about that, but that might come back in another debate. But it is true that the UK becomes a third country in a hard Brexit. In this case, a special tax unit could be a break because it is no longer an EU Member State. So yes, this Brexit also plays a role in this area. The transitional measure I recently announced to your Chamber limits its administrative impact and postpones its direct effects until the end of the current tax year. It's in the letter I sent to your room the day before yesterday. We are also trying to take account of some of these elements in fiscal legislation, which can suddenly arise for businesses and citizens. In some of those cases, we actually pretend that the Brexit did not take place for the rest of the year, so that we give a little time to businesses and citizens to prepare for that unpleasant new reality, should the British choose. Then there is a somewhat technical question from Mr Slootweg, but I hope I can take it off for a short time. His question was about Article 20a in the Vpb Act. He asked: is there a need to look back at a change of interest of 30% or more compared to 1 January 2018, or is that compared to the oldest loss year? That is indeed important for the people involved. Let me give you the answer as precisely as possible, because I think we all have the most. The emergency repair measure on loss relief in the event of a change in interest should be applied as if there has never been a fiscal unit. The legal provision on loss relief in the event of a change of interest is then applied in a regular manner. That's step two. This means that for the degree of change of interest the oldest loss year is considered. I think that is the answer Mr Slootweg was looking for. The beginning of the oldest year was that of which the loss had not yet been fully settled. Mr Slootweg also asked another interesting question: should we read about "25 October 2017" now "1 January 2018" because this transitional measure has been adapted, wherever the note on the occasion of the report referred to "25 October 2017"? The answer is no; that is not the answer. I hope I'm not complicating it with that. That is not the case. The note following the report was drawn up following the letter of amendment, in which the retroactive effect was limited to 1 January 2018. Therefore, where "25 October 2017, 11:00 a.m." is mentioned in the note following the report, this was also meant to be the case at that time. For example, in the case of a provision against loss relief trading, the interest changes from 25 October 2017 remain relevant for the emergency repair. Finally, a question from Mr Slootweg: what can the temporary transitional arrangements for SMEs mean for loans for business succession? Are these loans in the context of a succession also within the fiscal unit? Does that happen often? And if that is the case, is repayment possible in the short term, and is the limit of €100,000 in interest payments sufficient? We believe that the transitional arrangements for SMEs do not distinguish between the nature of the loans within the fiscal unit. So we're not looking at why they're there. Thus, the transitional arrangement would also apply to a loan in the context of a succession of companies, but in general, in the case of a succession, there is a situation in which the shares are transferred by a shareholder to the transferee. There can be no fiscal unit between the selling shareholder and the acquiring shareholder, as a tax unit requires the shareholder to own at least 35% of the shares. The short answer is therefore that it does not actually occur in many of these cases. So it just doesn't seem likely that there are fiscal unit loans in the context of a business succession. For this reason, there seems to be no need to redeem in the short term. That brings me to the end of this set of answers, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u93	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for replying in the first term. Can we proceed to the second term of office? That's the case. I understand that Mr Van Rooijen and Mr Van Weyenberg will have to leave this debate prematurely because of other commitments. I also understand that Mr Van Weyenberg is abandoning his second term. Mr Van Rooijen asked to speak first. I understand that you agree, so we are going to listen to Mr Van Rooijen now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u94	Mr President, thank you and your colleagues. Very briefly, also because of the time: we go into pensions at 1 p.m. Mr. Chairman. I have a motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government not to take retroactive effect in the case of new tax proposals in relation to increases in the burden on citizens and/or businesses,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Members Van Rooijen and Tony van Dijck. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-34959-10]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u95	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the comprehensive answer. I think the Secretary of State has managed to keep the debate somewhat understandable, because it is a very technical story. As I indicated in the first term, the fiscal unit is a crown jewel. We would also like to retain them in the future, albeit in an adapted form. But we've exchanged enough about that. I had prepared a motion with some colleagues to monitor what this urgent repair would mean in practice and to involve its results in the new group regime. But the Secretary of State's undertaking that he will do so and that he will inform the Chamber about it is a reason not to table this motion. Thank you for the commitment. I think it is very important that we use business, especially expertise there, and expertise within science to make the best possible arrangement. That brings me to the final point: speed. I don't underestimate it, because it's incredibly complicated. This is also evident from the debate we have just had and from the written round we have held together. But at the same time it is also an important tool for our business. So I assume that the Secretary of State sees its usefulness and necessity, not only for business, but also for his own service, the Tax Office. I hope that where there can be a acceleration, we can shape that acceleration with each other. In any case, as a VVD, we will want to deal constructively with this. I thank the President and the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u96	Thank you, Mrs Lodders. Mr Van Dijck will waive his second term, so we will get to Mr Snels. But he's gonna get rid of it, too. Then Mr Slootweg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is indeed a debate that has been technical here and there. I would therefore like to thank the Secretary of State for the comprehensive answer. I ran into something at re-reading anyway. I have one more technical question which I hope will not be too complicated and which the Secretary of State will be able to answer quickly. I wouldn't mind asking that question anyway. Not all articles will enter into force on 1 January 2018. This applies, for example, to Article 13a, which will enter into force on 1 January 2019. Has the Secretary of State considered including Article 13i on this date? This is due to the problematic feasibility of the article for the Tax Administration, as the article will expire on the same date. In other words, should we really be doing this complicated for the last year? Where I said "13i," I had to say "13l." You already understand how difficult this is. This is a question that has lingered, but I think it's good to answer it. I would like to thank the Secretary of State for answering the technical questions, including about 20a. I think this creates a lot of clarity. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u98	Thank you, Mr. Slootweg. I'll see if he can respond immediately. That's the case.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u99	Mr President, I would like to try that. In doing so, I will look at the lodge to see whether my officials at least have a very short answer for me regarding Article 13l and its entry into force in accordance with Article 13a. I don't want to philosophize about this. I really need to know if that's possible. Should that prove too complicated for a quick answer now, I will come back to that later, if necessary with a note. But let's try to take it off now. I have the motion by Mr Van Rooijen and Mr Van Dijck in front of me in particular. In fact, they say that they no longer want to take retroactive effect on new tax proposals. I have just underlined the reluctance. We, as legislators, are therefore extremely reluctant to allow this type of thing to enter into the legislation too much. This also applies to the Council of State in commenting on our legislative proposals. At the same time, it is just too definite to shout: it must never happen. There may be considerations, as we have had with this same bill, to opt for a retroactive increase in charges. The motion is therefore too firm. That's why I'm dissuading her. However, I would like to say to the Chamber that we, together with the co-legislator, are always reluctant to include that element. Then to the answer to Mr Slootweg's question: why is the interest deduction limitation for excessive holding interest included in the bill, while the provision was abolished on 1 January 2019? I hope that this answer will answer his question. With the introduction of the Earnings Stripping measure as of 1 January 2019, specific interest deduction restrictions have been abolished, including the interest deduction limitation of the excessive holding interest rate. This reduction in interest rates is also likely to be among the most vulnerable provisions, with recourse to the ruling of the Court of Justice likely to put this provision aside. Failure to include this discount in this bill would lead to an undesirable erosion of the Dutch corporate tax base for the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018. That is why the cabinet has decided to include this reduction in interest rates in the urgent measures contained in the legislative proposal. So that's why. That's also a vulnerable element. I think I have answered the questions in the second term as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u100	Then we have come to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-02-06-tweedekamer-3.u101	The vote on the motion tabled will take place next Tuesday. After the suspension, we will continue with the arrangement of work. Thank you.
