ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u1	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u2	Thank you, Madam President. I would also like to thank the Chamber for its written contribution to this law and for its initial contribution. It is indeed a varia law. That seems almost entrapment, because there is a lot of it, but this was in a sense reasonably clear. In the previous cabinet period and still in the outgoing period of that cabinet, a number of commitments have been made towards both the First Chamber and the Second Chamber. That's what we've been reported on. Effects on studies that have taken place have also been reported. There have been committees working. At that time, the commitment was made that these matters would be further incorporated into legislation. That's what this law has become. It's ahead now. In a way, there was nothing new under the sun for you, because all these were commitments in your direction, which had to be judged now on how they got into the law. Mr. Chairman. In my reply I follow the order as laid down in the law. So I will start by addressing the questions that have been raised about the new service procedure. I shall then turn to questions concerning the modernisation of the appointment procedure. Then I come to the clarification of the position of the Star. And finally, there's block four. In the law it is called "technical changes," but here I call it "different." In this block I deal with all the questions that have been asked, either about the technical changes to the component or other questions that have been added to it, on matters that have not been proposed by us to regulate in the law. Before I start, I have one more comment on how this relates to the vision letter. I understand the impatience of the Chamber. It's such an exciting process that I'm gonna let it take a little longer, because I want to do it carefully. But my intention is to make sure you get the letter. I don't think it's gonna work out this month, but it's gonna have to be next month. You, of course, have chosen to put the various laws on the agenda. If you call us to the Chamber, then of course we come as rulers. This really is an ongoing process. Again, I understand the interest in the vision letter. On the basis of the vision letter, we will, of course, also have to consider what matters may need to be dealt with in a subsequent law. Mr Van der Molen asked very clearly: do we really have to do this now? I believe that Mr Sneller said that it is finally there. In short, if we can just settle this now, it can just go into effect. Then we do not have to wait again until the start of a new concession period, because it will start on 1 January 2021, and that is still quite far away. So we're just trying to sort this out. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the new service procedure. The whole discussion started in 2014. I can even point out the group that started it. That was the D66 group. He said: how does the approval of supply channels in the Netherlands relate to what is happening in the rest of Europe? We also know the European interest of D66. On that basis, it has been promised that we will conduct a competition. You also received the results of that investigation. In principle it was quite well arranged, but there were still some adjustments possible. In the end, it was also agreed that they would be regulated in the legislation. The number of adjustments is actually very clear. We have defined the procedure a little more clearly, because it was a little less good to find it in the law. So we have clarified it more. This has become an extension of Article 2.21 of the 2008 Media Act. A market impact analysis by the ACM has been agreed. Moreover, there is broad support for the choice of ACM. This party has, of course, been respected for its work. It has also been chosen in consultation with the ACM to carry out an analysis. Mr Aartsen said: why not advise? We shouldn't be making a whole word game out of it either. The ACM simply has powers, capabilities and tools, also to retrieve information properly and... that is their quality... to make very sharp analyses. These analyses are involved in the final assessment to be made. You can have a bit of a theoretical discussion if the analysis makes it clear that there is market distortion. Is that advice or not? Then it's just very sharp and clear. We have settled in the procedure that it is ultimately the person in charge who must reach a decision on the basis of other views that have been tabled. We believe that with this way of doing things and with this way of putting the ACM in position, we are adding extra value to the procedure. It is, of course, intended that it should not last longer than necessary. Mr Sneller asked whether it would not take very long. Those six months are, in our view, the final deadline in the overall process. Of course, it can be done faster, but that depends on the views to be given. We're really assuming that this can be done in a good way. We don't want to weigh it down anymore. Mr Van der Molen asked whether an opinion could not also be given on the points of view. If we're gonna make that all legal, then it's gonna be real... The following is going to say: then we want to give an opinion on it. We think we've really got it sorted out. When a draft decision and a final decision are taken, the parties are, of course, always free to give an opinion on it, in accordance with the procedure we have now extended. But we are not going to explicitly include this in the law as an additional increase in the procedure. The parties mentioned by Mr Van der Molen are precisely those who are in the lead from the very beginning and who can make it clear in many ways that they often do so in the way they stand on this subject. This is why we've arranged it this way. Mr Kwint asked if all this is necessary.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u3	Before you proceed, Mr Van der Molen has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u4	I'm asking the Minister if I understand him correctly. Therefore, even after a decision has been taken, there is a possibility for those concerned to object in some way, but the Minister is not considering the formal inclusion of that right in the law. Is that what the Minister says? In practice, it's possible, but we don't write it down.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u5	Legally, of course, there is a certain interpretation of the word "objection." No, they've been given the opportunity to come up with proposals. They have the ability to back that up. With this we put the ACM to work. It must carry out a market impact analysis. Then there is a possibility for third parties to be able to express their views at an early stage only as soon as there is a draft decision. Considering everything, that will lead to a judgment of the ruler. When the views of third parties become public, of course there are always opportunities for others to respond, but we are not going to formally regulate that in the law. The parties you mention are in the lead from the beginning. Those are also the parties who always find us very well, not only you, but also me. Sometimes we're both served. We are not at all concerned that what they find will not reach us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u6	Just that difference. As soon as there's an opinion, anyone can think of it. Then we could even find some of it, if that were on our way. I am concerned about whether there is anything left to be found before the Minister makes a decision.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u7	One can always give one's point of view. Something else is to legally regulate in the procedure that views can be expressed on views that are already present. In that case, the other party would say: we want to give our opinion on that too. And then, of course, we really... Well, those six months will soon be doubled. There is always the possibility of responding to things, but this is what we formally regulate. It will have to be ensured that this is done in an orderly manner. Mr. Chairman. The way in which channels of supply are now being looked at is laid down in the law, including the position of the person in charge. Because the whole process often takes place so carefully, with clear advice that's what we're going to tighten up a little bit now, there's not often a very big discussion in practice either. It has happened once that example has also passed here that a supply channel has not continued. But we just have a very orderly way of doing that. That is, of course, always communicated with the Chamber. Mrs Van den Hul asked on what basis such a judgment takes place. Once again, it has happened that an application has not been approved, in a procedure that has been in place since 2010. In addition, it is always important that we consider whether the public value of a supply channel can be measured in a transparent way.I look for the good terms; that always listens closely to this kind of thing.... can be weighed against the effects of the channel on the market. If the public value and the contribution to the public media mission of supply channels that would be launched by the public service broadcaster are considered insufficient, a line can be crossed. This took place once at NPO FunX Turkpop, which was also mentioned by the Chamber in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u8	I still have a question about those supply channels. The Minister correctly describes how the service procedure now works and how it will work in the future. But, of course, a new service, or a new channel of supply, which is being created, may be a very small change at the moment and will not have any market distorting effect, but that is the case at once at the time it is running for four or five years. Is the Minister prepared to regularly review these channels of supply with regard to the criteria we are tightening up today?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u9	That was also a question from Mr Van der Molen, I think. It's already in the law. Indeed, it is a new service procedure. So this is a new offer. But there is always, even in the interim, if something has already been approved, the possibility of submitting a request to look into it. It is, of course, examined whether approval has been given for the channel of supply which is then put on the table and whether that channel still meets the criteria on the basis of which one has ever been authorised. So we've already settled that in the law. There's just that possibility. Mr. Chairman. I'm going to the appointment procedures. A lot of questions have been asked about that, interesting questions too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u10	Before you start... The first part's over?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u11	This was the first block, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u12	Then Mr Van der Molen or Mr Kwint? You almost pulled a sprint.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u13	After a sprint, Mr.Kwint speaks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u14	In that case... I asked a question about the procedure surrounding the ACM. Why is third parties, market players, already being asked to provide input before the ACM investigates? Now it's true that third parties can advise you. You have a report from the Media Commissioner, I say from my mind, and the Culture Council; I have to put it right, it is about the Commissioner and the Council, not about the ACM. Then why should these parties be allowed to provide information and give their own views even earlier in the process, when it eventually ends up with you? Why was that change chosen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u15	For two reasons. The first one may be a little flat, but it's been agreed with you that we're going to do it this way. This discussion has taken place and the then ruler has gone away with an order to regulate this in the law. The second is that it is reasonable to allow parties who have an interest in this larger whole to express their views before a draft decision is made, so that those who ultimately have to give the opinion can involve that in their judgement. Of course, it can be a theoretical question: will that really make a difference? We don't know. But in the order of events and also doing justice to the various parties and their positions, you once said as a Chamber that you thought that was reasonable. As a current ruler, I agree and take over. That is why I have proposed this now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u16	The whole idea of a draft decision is that it is for the time being, that it is for the time being and that parties can then react to it. Then it is illogical to involve people again in the preliminary draft decision, rather than simply having them respond to that draft decision. Does this not lead to commercial parties being given very extensive opportunities at a very early stage to criticise or attack the public interest of public service broadcasting in all kinds of ways?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u17	No, they get the same opportunity they have, only at a slightly earlier stage. So it's not magnified or anything like that. The only thing is that they don't have to respond to a draft decision right now, but they are giving their opinion on what they see coming. If they're gonna react, that's probably gonna mean they're gonna find that market-distorting. In the end, with the ACM analysis and with other advice, it is up to the managing director to give an opinion on this. Then he has the whole package right on the table at once, so hopefully it will be ready immediately.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u18	It seems to me a very difficult task to consider which channel you do and do not allow. FunX Turkpop was not allowed, but we do have FunX Arab for example. So whatever the difference is, it seems to me to be a difficult consideration. I would like to come back to the part that a channel has already entered into force and that it could then be market-distorting. If I have understood the Minister correctly, he has indicated that it is possible to check whether there has ever been permission. That sounds like the very first thing. The second is whether all these conditions are still met. But that doesn't necessarily mean anything about whether something has become market-distorting. You can still perfectly comply with the pre-established rules, but still it can be market-distorting during a process. How, then, would the Minister like to deal with this in the context that the law now offers?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u19	We indicated at the beginning that we are looking at market effects. This is analysed in relation to the launch of such an offer channel and others can give their views on it. When questions are asked about an offer channel that was once authorised, there is a legal possibility to ask the Commissioner to look further at it. Then the spotlight needs to be put back on such an offer channel. It must then be considered whether it really has a public value and is in a good relationship with what is offered commercially. That's not quite cut with scissors, but space, the possibilities are just the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u20	Again to have the right understanding and to see if there is anything more necessary. If I understand the Minister correctly, he is now indicating the following. If a new offer has been authorised and after a number of years it would appear that it is still market-distorting, for example because there were no commercial initiatives at first, there was a public task that has been taken up and the market has developed in such a way that others could still make an offer, in such a case it can be re-examined whether such a channel should still be allowed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u21	I have just indicated that, of course, the social value of such a channel must be looked at, even if it is in public hands. You will need to take a broad look at the complaint that is being filed regarding an already permitted channel of supply. It will then have to be re-assessed whether or not to fit in with the list of supply channels launched and maintained by the public sector. This calls for a wide-ranging consideration, and that must of course be done with care.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u22	I'm gonna talk to you about the... the... the, uh... the, uh... the, uh... the, uh... the, uh... the, uh... the, uh... the, The NPO and the College of Broadcasting have expressed their concerns about this increase. They say: it leads to more bureaucracy and more regulatory pressure, and ultimately it will make us less agile. Does the Minister recognise these concerns of the NPO and the College of Broadcasting?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u23	I recognise those concerns, because they have expressed them at a number of times, I understand that they are also in your direction. We're trying to keep the deadlines as short as possible anyway. I have just responded to that in the direction of Mr Sneller. The second is that there is always room for experiments. Those experiments are not in charge of very heavy procedures, so there are those manoeuvrability and those possibilities. If one thinks one has something that has a clear added value in relation to what is already there and one would like to do so, then it can be done in the sphere of an experiment. So in that respect, we do not think that the manoeuvrability is now suddenly very limited.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u24	I hear from the sound in the public gallery that we are now working on our ratings among the youngest target group. How nice! You're very welcome. A question they are also asking is: what is the consideration of pre-empting the introduction of the new system?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u25	This is already a promise made a few years ago. I've even indicated when it's ever started. Then we'll go back a little further in time. Good research has been done. That's shared with you, too. Agreements have been made to lay it down in legislation. I do not have anything to do with this, so to speak, in the sense that this is a very good further tightening up or supplementing the law. If we can put this into effect, we'd rather it was yesterday than tomorrow. But yesterday doesn't go anymore, so if we can get that tomorrow, you shouldn't take it literally. Mr. Chairman. A lot of questions have been asked about the appointment procedures. This subject also has quite a history. Commitments have been made to the Chamber and investigations have been carried out, including by the Brakman Commission. In March 2017, you yourself received a copy of a commitment made to the Upper House to give them the results of that investigation, together with a policy response. You spoke about this at the time. This is a subject that has already been discussed a great deal. We really thought it was important that politics should be moved a little further away than was already regulated in the last legislative amendment. In this way, we have gone to work to ensure that this is guaranteed by the law. We have done this very precisely, because you have seen that we have looked very closely at whether it was the NPO, the RPO or the NTR, up to and including the stifo. We believe that we have brought back the proposals we are making here, the political interference, just to use Mr Van der Molen's words, in a good way, wherever possible. I shall come back to Mr Sneller's amendment in a moment, because he has an additional wish in that regard. I think this is a good thing. I can already tell you that there have been many acts in the spirit of this new law. They are therefore already taking this into account, because they are very well aware that this is closely listening. In his amendment to item No. 10 Mr Sneller pointed out that there was still a place in the Media Commissioner where a ruler could do something, i.e. suspend or destroy decisions. That's right. We left that out. Why? You make comparisons with other bodies and institutions, from which politics has completely disappeared. We're talking media here. There is always a system responsibility, including for a ruler, an overall system responsibility. This is actually kind of a valve, as I call it. Possibly, if it is really necessary, there can still be action. To reassure you, it is a very theoretical discussion. It was last applied fifteen years ago by then Secretary of State Mrs Van der Laan, a fellow party member of Mr Sneller, who then suspended a certain decision to have a little more time to weigh all kinds of criticism that came up in proportion until a final judgment was given. So it's a bit of a theoretical discussion. I understand your attitude, but we don't think it's necessary to remove this little valve that's in the law. Maybe it is never necessary to raise it at all, but because of this overall system responsibility it cannot harm either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u26	As Hans Teeuwen would say: but suppose it isn't theoretical... In my view, we should not do it because of the past or because I distrust this minister, but because we want to organise the system in such a way that politics has little influence on the Media Commissioner. We must take good care of this minister's successors. Isn't it necessary to just remove that valve?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u27	I didn't put the word "wrong" in my mouth, because I didn't have the impression that it was behind it either. It is not a question of distrust of the person who at that time has the responsibility to exercise that power. It is more about whether it is bad that there is such a small valve in the law when you also have a system responsibility in that competence. That is the reason for us to say that we can justify, from that reasoning, that this valve remains in it. More or less to reassure people who are wondering whether they are going to be used too randomly, I note that it has happened once in the past. I also hope it's not necessary at all, but if you take it away, you won't have it if you might need it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u28	I also hope that it will never be necessary, but hope that it will never be necessary is not really a basis for setting up the system. That valve happens to be there because it has been used very reluctantly in the past, also by this minister, but under the law and the system of responsibility for the proper functioning of this system, there is no guarantee that it will not be used less prudently by a successor to this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u29	It is not unreasonable, within the framework of the system responsibility of a govern ment, that such a valve is in the law. In the end, it is always the Chamber that judges that. You have tabled an amendment. I do not recommend that amendment, but it is, of course, up to the Chamber to decide on it. If that amendment is adopted, we will, of course, implement it. Whether or not you think it is appropriate that such a valve should be called a valve, it is of course not a legal term in the law, we see no reason to delete it because of this system responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u30	Finally. The Minister of Finance has a system of responsibility for the financial system. However, the AFM and DNB do not have the same valve, as this minister calls it. So I cannot fully reconcile why this system responsibility requires this power to destroy supervisory decisions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u31	I don't think you can compare all the systems one-on-one like that. This is a responsibility for the broad media system. Politics has already been put at a great distance on many fronts. A conscious choice has been made. But it's still a lot of public money. You also have to answer for the way that's spent. If there are any questions, a ruler will eventually be called to the Chamber to answer for them. If you really don't have anything in your hands at the moment when you think something is really not reasonable and on which you think there is reason to intervene, then you are also a bit of a toothless tiger. That is not always pleasant at times when you would like to bite through, but in the end it is also the Chamber that gives another judgment. You are there yourself and you can also call a ruler to account if you think it is not reasonable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u32	Let me make this clear: the amendment to item No. 10 by Mr Sneller advises you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u33	That's what I'm telling you. Mr. Chairman. Then a lot of questions have been asked about politics and the media and the role that politics should have in the media. Let me do it on the basis of the amendment that has been tabled in respect of part-time work. 11 was submitted by members Aartsen and Van der Molen. This amendment, of course, is not intended to ensure that a political party cannot set up a broadcaster. In this respect, our Media Act is already sufficiently equipped to prevent this kind of thing from happening. But the influence of politics can, of course, also take place in other ways. If you are a member, you can actually get into an executive responsibility, such as the board of directors, the supervisory board, member councils or what else there is. That is what this amendment is about. We have indeed arranged for the NPO, the NTR and the NIS that people cannot simply come into such a responsibility if they are members of either Chamber. There was a question about that. Mr Aartsen and Mr Van der Molen now say that they want to deal with this also for broadcasting organizations. That is the thrust of the first part of this amendment. The second part of the amendment goes a little further. What you are asking for, we have not settled with the NPO, the NIS and the NTR. That was also one of the questions asked. You also want it "if there is an administrative function or an employment with a political party, in so far as the administrative function or employment is exercised at national level." In fact, you say that only the fact that the First or Second Members would be Members of Parliament is not enough. You also believe that people who are close to politically active for a political party should also be excluded. The question is what do you mean by that? What's a board function, we get. But an employment on a national level? What exactly do you mean by that, in concrete terms? I ask Mr Aartsen this because it is very important that we know this very precisely. Are you saying that people on the payroll of a national agency or a scientific institute of a political party or people on the payroll of the political groups of the parties in the First and Second Chamber are excluded from such a position? Is that what you're talking about or is it going on? It's important to know exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u34	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u35	So the answer is yes. Good. It is important to know that very clearly. I leave the opinion on this amendment to the Chamber, because we can imagine something that it is important that you state very precisely how far politics should or should not operate in the direction of broadcasting. In any case, this amendment provides clarity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u36	Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u37	I think Mr Aartsen is finally going to clarify something, I think, so give him the floor first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u38	Mr. Aartsen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u39	I thought, "I won't waste too many words on it to be clear." Our intention concerned people with a financial dependence relationship, a service association of a political party, in this case the national party office, and matters related to the political groups operating here in the Chamber. I heard the minister say something about affiliated organizations in a subtle way. That wasn't our intention. I am not going to make any moves to broaden it here by definition. So if the Minister's sub-section can be removed, I'll just say, the answer to the previous question was yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u40	It was not for nothing that I asked for clarification and then filled it out myself to have exactly where the boundaries lie. Now, of course, there is confusion. I would like to ask the authors to clarify the explanatory statement to their amendment with what they consider to be covered, so that it is ready to go and will not be for lawyers. Maybe we can do that for the second term. Then I shall suspend my judgment on the way I had considered it and come back to it in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u41	I'd like that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u42	That is indeed a good and right point. It is in fact in line with what Mrs Westerveld said in her speech about the broadcasting of tasks. We were already in the process of making a slight change, so as far as I am concerned, we can do that fine. I just need to see if I can do that for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u43	For the Acts, I would mention that the amendment tabled by Mr Aartsen and Mr Van der Molen to item No. 11 is amended. It would be nice if we could do that for the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u44	Yeah, we're gonna do our best to do that. Can I make another comment? The Minister is right to say that the current Media Act concerns the current political parties. Then it's about the associations that are there right now. That's right. On the basis of Article 2.1 (d), it is true that the legal description of the membership association consisting of a political party is different from what is stated in the Media Act. If one of the members of the Chamber starts a separate association that does have that legal task, the problem is of course that you still have a problem with the fact that a political party or someone with a political intention wants to start a public service. In my view, this amendment will overcome this by partly creating grounds for rejection which are not currently laid down in the law. Another article, Article 2.6, which should guarantee independence, is, in our view, being loaded and tightened up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u45	There are more provisions that make it clear who may or may not apply from what background to be admitted to our public order. So there really are safeguards for that. The editorial statute can also be a guarantee to prevent external influences. That's a possibility. I think our system will work. It is the first time that a political party has said that it has plans in this direction, even if it has swallowed it again later. The other way around has happened. You may remember the program List 0. In 2010 - I say this for a moment, but Mr Bosma was there at the time, so he probably knows that - attempts were made from BNN to become a political party. That's what was stopped at the time. Let me show you how our system works. We also experienced this with prospective broadcasters who later became broadcasters. Think of WNL and PowNed who were on their way. WNL was very clearly associated with De Telegraaf, TMG. The Commission has said in the run-up to this: if it continues to do so, there will be no authorization. Broadcasters must therefore clearly break these ties and be truly independent, otherwise they will not be allowed to order. So we've put a few things in there. This could be a further clarification for politics to sit a little more at a distance. It's in line with this bill. I await the new amendment. If it does not come today, it will be at a later date and I will reply in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u46	President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian-Democratic Group).
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u47	I think it is very special that the Minister first says for ten minutes that the amendment is not necessary for anything and that he then looks at it with a positive attitude and wants to support it with some changes here and there. The Minister says that, of course, the authors of this amendment do not want to prevent political parties from starting their own broadcasting. But the first sentence of the explanatory statement is literally: 'The authors aim to prevent political parties from starting their own broadcasting'. That is also the thrust of what Mr Aartsen said at WNL this morning. Of course, he's free to do that. How does the Minister read this amendment which gives him the impression that it is not the intention of the proposers to prevent political parties from starting their own broadcasting, as is literally stated in the amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u48	Of course I have read the explanatory statement, but I also look at the literal texts contained in the amendment. Because that's what it's all about in the end. There is something in line with what we have arranged for the national broadcasters, at least in the case of the NPO, the NTR and the NIS, namely that we are trying to keep the influence of politics at bay and to prevent the participation of politicians. So it's not a political party, it's politicians. That's what it's all about in the end. We believe that the influence of politics does not fit in with the free press. In this respect, I have looked at it and said: this is a further extension of it to broadcasting organizations that have not yet been dealt with. They go one step further, namely that they also say that we should not do that from people working for a political party at national level. This is also de facto an additional obstacle to the formation of a political party; in that respect, I can understand the meaning of the explanatory statement. But it is also broader, because it is also about existing broadcasting organisations. That is where this amendment will have its effects. I do not know whether people will actually run away, because I think it is all orderly, but at least towards the future we can prevent it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u49	I agree with the Minister that it is an extremely chaotic amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u50	Then let's wait for the new amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u51	Yeah, that'll probably get better. Then there's a question about the alleged political influence. Because, as I said, when it comes to membership of one of the Chambers, I can imagine anything. But when it comes to those other functions within a political party... At AVROTROS, Ed Nijpels is the head of the Supervisory Board. I think Nijpels has something more to say about the whole of the VVD than the one who keeps the payroll administration there, and that could be quite a job. Ed Nijpels may later stay according to this amendment, but the person who faithfully transfers the salaries to the VVD group staff would not be able to join a Supervisory Board of, for example, AVROTROS. Well, then this amendment's gonna take care of some really weird shit, isn't it? Then this doesn't make any sense, does it? It just makes things more complicated, doesn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u52	I think it is therefore also important that the applicants should also be more precise. I've made an attempt to help them, to make clear exactly what functions they want to include. I do understand that it is best to do something generic, because if you start cutting with a pair of scissors, you say: they can, and then there just turns out to be another piece in between. That only increases the uncertainty. So let's see what they're gonna come back with. Mrs Westerveld has indicated that she would like to give that social advisory board a more firmer hand in the appointments, if I may sum it up. You know that the Media Act of 2016 indeed discussed this in detail and that the Supervisory Board draws up a job profile in the vacancy and that the Advisory Council is given the opportunity to give an opinion on this. I have not seen any need to tighten that up in the law. They simply have an involvement in it, but I think that in the other way of making sure that it can eventually come to an appointment properly enough checks-and-balances are in place. Mr. Chairman. Then an amendment has also been tabled in respect of item No. 12. A third of the members of the Supervisory Board of the NPO would be put by the Minister on the proposal of a recommendation from the joint works councils of the NPO and the media institutions. If this amendment were to be adopted, that would mean that I would be given a more active role, where the very thrust of this bill is to put me a little more at a distance. I'm the one who's gonna do it now, but I'm gonna be the one who's gonna do it later. We believe, also in line with what I just said about the Advisory Council, that there is now an independent appointment committee. It advises the Supervisory Board and that Supervisory Board gives a serious opinion to the Minister. As far as we are concerned, this is well arranged. So there is no need for me as a minister to get a heavier role in this, also in relation to a participation council, a works council.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u53	Of course, it is not a question of giving the Minister a heavier role, but of giving the people in the co-determination council a heavier role. To this end, I have also indicated my own contribution to the organisation of business. I have indicated before in debates we have also had on education that I believe that participation should ultimately have a greater role in the appointment of supervisors. That's what we're talking about. Maybe the Minister can tell us what he thinks of that approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u54	I think it's original. It is true that there are always gremia in which they have arranged it in a slightly different way. You are also fully entitled to say that I think this is a good way of doing things, so it could be done here too. We have chosen a slightly different approach. The main reason for this is the idea of placing a ruler at a good distance, but also to ensure that there is an independent appointment advisory committee, which will eventually come up with an opinion that has so much weight that a ruler really has to have very good arguments to deviate from. As far as we are concerned, that is sufficiently secure. There is no reason to add works councils to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u55	I do not see why the Minister indicates that he will then have a greater role, because the appointment advisory committee also ultimately gives an opinion to the Minister. That is what we are proposing now. We merely point out that we believe that these co-determination councils should have a greater role, but in the end that does not change very much the procedure in which the minister is involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u56	The minister is then again used as a kind of passage to the committee. You also say very precisely that it must be a third. My main argument is that it undermines what we have now proposed, which we believe to be a very orderly way of getting appointments, with politics also at a good distance. So it's just a difference of opinion. I therefore advise against your amendment, but in the end we will see what the majority of the Chamber thinks about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u57	So just for the clarity...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u58	It is a question of the amendment to item No. 12.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u59	It's not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u60	Yes. Mr. Chairman. I have indicated before that I would also like to pay attention to the remuneration of the supervisors in my vision letter which is to come soon. I can tell you that I would like to take a closer look at the number of Members when it comes to supervisors. Then we'll take that with us in one go. I shall come back to that further. I think we will have a good debate on this. I would also like to take up Mr Aartsen's question about the recent debate on the remuneration of a presenter. It is true that last week the NPO sent me the advice I asked for. Mr Kwint also asked about this in the oral questions. That advice raised so many questions that we asked them too. We're processing the new proceeds now. In the meantime, there are also questions to the House from Mr Aartsen about this. I'm gonna try to fill you in on that this week. If that doesn't work this week, I'll do it by the beginning of next week. 'Cause the questions you had came to me, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u61	That last sentence is, I think, also an important sentence, because I think there is no political difference of opinion when it comes to the fact that such scams should no longer be allowed. The Minister also made that clear at Oral Question Time. I'm curious about the letter. My request would be to speak as a Chamber about what we would like in such an investigation. We did see a press release from the NPO. We were not allowed to receive an investigation of that. That wasn't made public either. In that press release, only BNNVARA was mentioned, while the programme covered by the scheme came from the NTR and from an external production company. My question to the Minister is therefore whether he would be able to include these elements in his new research question towards the NPO and whether we as the Chamber could eventually receive the research.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u62	Of course, I'm looking at a case like this. I didn't ask any new questions for nothing. I would ask you to be cautious in your qualifications. You're already talking about shuffle constructions. If there's an investigation going on, it's just gonna have to do. That's how it works in an orderly investigation. Based on the results, we can draw conclusions. It does not seem very good to me to burden this route so heavily when there is still an investigation going on and the questions have not all been answered.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u63	It could be. The point is, of course, that there is a total lack of transparency when it comes to the NPO. In the end, however, we Members of Parliament must be able to argue to our voters how we control the minister and the government for what happens to taxpayers' money. The same applies, of course, to what happens financially in Hilversum. It does mean that we in the Chamber have the right to say: we are getting signals that something is not right. We have made a law, the WNT, in which we say that we believe that people in Hilversum should not earn more than our prime minister. We have laid that down in rules, but I think there is also a moral apple behind it that should be. If all kinds of constructions are made up, I have a certain qualification, but I would like to be convinced by the Minister that my qualifications are incorrect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u64	I understand that Mr Aartsen must also answer for what he is doing as a Member of Parliament. I think he can tell his constituents that he has also asked questions about an issue which he too has great questions about. I will, of course, try to give him answers to these questions as quickly as possible, even from my point of view. Then we're gonna draw some conclusions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u65	In the meantime, I can imagine that Mr Aartsen's supporters, cheering through the streets of Brabant. As I said in my own term, I found it striking that the NPO in its response says very specific and securely that the current rules are being complied with. Now, of course, some of the objections that my party has been raising for some time now are that precisely those current rules allow for the scope to facilitate matters, which I think Mr Aartsen is right to say, we can say that they are not in the spirit of the WNT. Those things aren't in the spirit that tax money doesn't pay you more than the Prime Minister. Are these aspects, which go a little deeper than the question of whether all the rules have been properly followed and whether they are fully compliant with the law, also included in the supplementary questions put to the NPO by the Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u66	I myself had some questions relating to the advice I had received. In principle, you were able to take note of this in a press release. I have also had additional questions from the Chamber on this matter, and I will answer them. On that basis, we can continue the debate, but I think it is much better that we settle it in an orderly manner when we look at the future. What do we want and what do we not want in the new concession period? And you know me displeased with the fact that there is so much discussion about it every time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u67	I actually want to join the last thing the Minister says, because that is what I needed on behalf of the CDA. If the Minister does come to the Chamber with a vision letter, will he come back to this subject? I would ask him to do so more specifically: what steps could be taken here towards a concession period? I think it is widely perceived here in the Chamber as an annoying subject that comes back every time and is only harmful to the NPO. I think the Minister hinted at this, but if that could be a commitment from him, I would be very pleased on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u68	I was called to Question Time on this and I was also very clear at that time. I said, "I'll be done coming to the Chamber for this one time." I was, by the way, fooled by the President at the time, because it was an honour to be here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u69	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u70	Of course, it was not my intention to draw the wrong conclusion to that remark; that really had to do with the content. We are going to take a good look at this and then the remuneration of the supervisory boards and the like, as I have just promised Mrs Westerveld, will also be included. Mr President, there is one further amendment before us which is part of the appointment procedure. That is the amendment tabled by Mr Westerveld and Mr Van den Hul. To clarify, they want to take the diversity into account in the way in which they are ultimately selected. That is in principle the intention now, but it is true that this is not yet laid down in the law. This amendment I can give Chamber judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u71	Just to be safe, is that no. 14?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u72	That's no. 14.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u73	The amendment in part No. 14 gets judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u74	Mr. Chairman. Then the third block: the clarification of the position of the Star. There is also a whole debate ahead of that and the Brakman Committee has also advised on this. But there's also been an investigation. You know it all, because you got it all from Twynstra Gudde. They indicated that the way in which the governance of the Star is organised is no longer today. There is no distinction between governance and supervision, and that did indeed lead to the qualification: it has become a kind of coordination gremium, where people meet, where different interests come together and where the power of action is not really present, not only in the administration but also in the supervision, which is actually not well regulated either. So even apart from all the discussions there are about the Star, it's just very logical for organizations at this time to make a distinction, and that's what we're going to do with the Star as well. Is this ultimately going to have an effect on the task facing us? I don't think it's gonna make you any worse if you have more impact power and if it's clear what the positions are. But you know that when it comes to the Star and the income, sometimes other things also play a role. But at this time and given the current thinking about governance, you just do this. Maybe it's weird that we're just doing that now, but, uh, well, we've got that covered in the law now, I guess.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u75	Before you proceed, Mr Kwint has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u76	Yes, because I am curious what the Minister means by that, because the implication of what he is saying is: we haven't actually delivered with the Star to maximum power for years, because I sat there with the NPO at the table myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u77	No, I'm just indicating that if you... Well, actually, if there's no proper distinction between governance and supervision and if you've arranged it this way, sometimes you're more of a coordination gremium. That does not mean that all the wrong things have been done there. Once again, also in view of the regulation that was underneath, it was simply in accordance with the agreements made. But if you're looking at these kinds of constructions now, with the eyes of this time, you shouldn't want that to continue. That is why we now have much better governance arrangements. I think that will only benefit the impact force. Mr. Chairman. Then the fourth block. Many of you, including Mrs van den Hul, have asked questions about the indexation and the passage that is included in the law, which we have said: it is a clarification. I think it is very important that we also note with each other that the way in which the NPO is financed has always been made up of two parts: the state media contribution on the one hand and the revenue that comes from the Star is also chosen for this. Sometimes they fall short of the expectations we had and we have to make sure that the holes are closed in a different way. We've had our hands full with that for the past year. But that other part goes through the Star revenue to the government and through the government both amounts go towards the NPO: we make agreements about that and then one can just do one's job. Indeed, a number of years ago, Mr Van Dam's amendment was referred to as 'an extensive debate on whether it is not important to provide a piece of multiannual security'. That was the discussion about the minimum amount and the possibilities for possible derogations, so that we can have a certain amount of certainty for a period of five years, so that we simply know where we stand, and so that, if there is any intervention, we cannot do so every year. Otherwise, you can't make a multi-annual policy. That was the discussion that took place at the time. The amendment tabled by Mr Van Dam, the way in which he initiated the debate at the time and the way in which that debate took place, have led to an agreement on it. As far as indexing is concerned, it is quite clear that indexation only takes place over the national media. Our income and expenditure must be in line with each other. So there can be indexation about that part, about the growth of the number of households, the consumer price index; the first through the CBS, the other through the CPB. In addition, the revenue from advertising, which applies at current prices, is added. It is true that in the explanatory statement of that Van Dam amendment, which was perhaps the longest explanatory statement I have ever read, there is some indication that the final contribution consists of two parts. But if you are also going to look at the debate in the Chamber, I have gone all the way through it, and you can see that the discussion was really about the minimum amount, about giving that multiannual security, about what a cabinet might or might not be able to do when it comes to deviations from it. And it is not true that there is a clear agreement that the indexation will apply to advertising revenue from now on. There wasn't really a problem either. This started with the new concession period in 2016. Only in 2018 did there suddenly be a gap in revenue; then we differed from what was ultimately estimated. So that's what we've had our hands full with. It was only then that a discussion arose, and then we clarified the intention of the legislator. That has indeed been the subject of discussion; it can be done. So we are doing this in this way in this variety law, not to settle a dispute, but simply to define the legislator's intention more precisely. It is therefore a clarification of what was intended. It's annoying that that discussion has arisen, but even if you just look at the content for a sec, you can see that it's only logical. What is indexing about and what isn't? If you look at the content for a second, it's only logical that it goes this way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u78	I think this is a complicated figure. The Minister now has the intention to interpret the legislator's intentions, and in this case the legislator was simply the Chamber, which adopted it by means of an amendment. What do we have in the end? We have the text of the amendment. It just literally says: "It is therefore a matter of clarity about the resources made available by the Empire through the media budget, which is filled by the State Media contribution and the Star's income." The latter is a very important part of the sentence. It adds specifically to what is not included: own income, membership contributions and so on. With that passage in my hand, and also overlooking the rest of the amendment, I still find it difficult to find the Minister's interpretation. Could he go into that more explicitly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u79	I have indicated what is just the way things are in indexing. This indexing takes place for the state media contribution. On this basis, through the CBS and through the CPB, additional money can be made available. That is, as it should be, being properly passed on to those concerned. There is no indexing about the Star. Stars are eventually realized at current prices. Of course, we do have a problem sometimes. And if there is a problem, then from the General Media Reserve the holes are just closed. Take a look at what has happened in recent years. So close the holes, couldn't last time, and then suddenly this came on the table. I have seen that passage in the explanatory statement of the amendment, but I have just indicated the context in which that whole story was built. That was really about how the minimum amount should be built up and what components they were. We therefore believe that you will not be able to use it for that purpose. In our view, you cannot say by taking this one sentence out of such a large explanatory statement: once the Court has also said that there should be an index on Star revenue. That would also be very strange, because we do not receive any money for that either, and so revenue and expenditure would really get out of hand. So that became a dispute in 2018, when we could no longer completely close the gaps from the General Media Reserve. In this sense, we have been interested in broadcasting by looking at the extent to which we could help the broadcasters, because it might have been a little unexpected for them too. The Chamber has also made funds available for this. So that's what happened. But this change in the law is also purely intended to clarify the intentions of the legislator of that time. And it is, of course, up to your Chamber to accept it or not, but I would advise against the amendment that has been tabled, I thought by the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u80	In part No. 8.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u81	Yes. As far as we're concerned, this is the way it should be. That's no more than orderly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u82	Well, as I said in my first term, I hope that it will soon be an unnecessary discussion, if we get a media letter from the minister and if we just get completely off the star. Admittedly, it's an incredibly long explanation. But I'm gonna object to this anyway. A few sentences further says: "For the following years in the five-year period, the amount is indexed on the basis of the same system as the indexing of the state media contribution." If this amendment was only about the state media contribution, would it not be entirely unnecessary to write that the indexing takes place according to the system of the state media contribution? That is the state media contribution. It is explicitly mentioned: the combination of State Media Contribution and Star Revenue. The total amount is indexed according to the same methodology as the indexing of the national media contribution. I really can't read it but the way things are here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u83	You see what's happening. There is noise on the line regarding what is or is not intended and pronounced. I have also looked at the way in which this has been discussed in the debate. But that was always about a minimum amount and how we should deal with it. There has indeed been a lack of clarity. If we look at the system, there is no indexing of the Star. The moment we don't receive that amount, you can't pass it on. This creates a discrepancy between revenue and expenditure. It would also have been worth a sweet thing if this had been discussed very well at the time. But that didn't happen. This led to problems in 2018. That's why we're clarifying it a little more now. But that has no influence whatsoever on what we are doing, because we have acted as it should in the past period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u84	I do not share the assessment that it is unclear, but that will not surprise the Minister. For us, it is clear what this amendment was about. The Minister says that the scope of this amendment was quite different. But I really want to fight that. The purpose of this amendment was precisely to ensure the long-term security of public service funding. That was the thrust of this amendment. Does the Minister agree with us that his interpretation of the indexation question does not guarantee this certainty?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u85	It was indeed about that certainty. The government didn't have to be able to intervene every year. It was therefore important that there was clarity for a longer term. Those are the agreements that have been made, also around the minimum amount and about when you should or should not intervene. That has indeed helped to provide some certainty on a multiannual basis. But again, there was not indexed on the Star, even at that time, but on the state media contribution. It was always ensured that further progress was made through the government's budget to the budget of the NPO.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u86	We're running in circles a little bit anyway. For us it is true that this indexation was about both parts of the media budget, as was clearly focused. I would like to continue with the consequences of this. As Mr Kwint has already pointed out and I have also pointed out, this can have considerable budgetary implications in the longer term. We mentioned an amount of 25 million. Is that something we're going to see in the Minister's vision letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u87	We are simply making a multi-annual budget, in which we make clear how we think money should go to the NPO. It's just in your possession. It will be extended for a number of years. We have always been of the opinion that we have also completed the budget for 2019 that there should not be indexed on the Star. For us, it does not matter in terms of budget. We're just gonna pull that through. But it's annoying that there's been a misunderstanding. That is what we are trying to clarify now in the law, and now that the Varia Act is there, so can we.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u88	I would like to continue on this point. Mrs Van den Hul already mentioned the amount. She suggested a little bit that it is up to the Minister that that amount is on the table, but I think the problem lies with the NPO itself. They say: it's nice that this is in the law, but we keep our own interpretation. The NPO does the same with the household index. It dates back almost nineteen years ago, but we find that amount in the annual budget over and over again. If you're gonna work with fictional basic paths, you're gonna get in trouble. My question to the Minister is: are you prepared to engage with the NPO when this law is passed so that they stop using their own fictitious figures in their budgets and simply stick to the amount they get every year from OCW?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u89	If this law is adopted, with our proposal in it, then it becomes very clear as far as we were concerned. Unfortunately, however, there has been a misunderstanding about this. I'm not gonna blame anyone for that, but it happened. That is annoying and therefore it is important that we clarify it now. We assume, of course, that this will eventually be reflected in the figures. At least you can hold us to that when it comes to our figures.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u90	I'm glad to hear that, but I don't think the problem is in our figures. The problem, in my view, lies in the figures that the NPO always puts in its own budget. From the VVD the request to talk to the NPO. If this law comes into effect, this is the legal framework and in Hilversum they should not make up all kinds of fictional basic paths in their own budget.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u91	It is clear what Mr Aartsen says. I would like to comment on the adjustment of wages. That would be a completely different system. The cabinet does not intend to do so. We work through these two pillars, these indexes. You've been able to find that in the law, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u92	Just to be sure: the amendment to item No. 8 has been dissuaded?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u93	Yeah, I'd advise against that. Mr. Chairman. I had promised to speak with the Ombudsman. Yes, we did. The Ombudsman is now in contact with the broadcasters to make further arrangements with them. So that's totally on the move. As soon as there are results to report, I will of course report them as well. Mr Sneller also asked a question about the ban on servitude. That's a subject we could fill a whole day with. Indeed, there is sometimes a lot of uncertainty about what should or should not be allowed. You know I'm talking to the commercial and public broadcasters together. We have agreed with them that if there are any concrete examples in which there is uncertainty, we will present them to the Media Commissioner, because sometimes it is just a matter of taking that step. If you don't take that step, then you don't know it, and there's no clarity. We have simply arranged this opportunity nicely, so let us make use of it. Mr. Chairman. Mr Van der Molen and Mrs Westerveld asked about the roadmap regarding the media offer for auditory and visually restricted people. They're working hard on that. In that respect, you have put a lot of effort into your motion. I can reassure Mr Van der Molen: there will be subtitles on 4 May. We've already got that guarantee. I hope the plan will be completed soon, because then we will have complete clarity on this matter. In part No. 13 is an amendment tabled by Mrs Westerveld on the enforcement of the drafting statute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u94	Mrs Westerveld, do you have a question about the amendment or do you have another question? About the foregoing, I understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u95	Yes. I am pleased that the Roadmap is being started so that programmes are accessible. In this case, I also asked a question about the shooting that took place a while ago. The information about this was not clear or inaccessible to people who cannot see or hear properly. Does the Minister also ensure that this roadmap takes explicit account of these unexpected moments, whether they are cheerful or, as in this case, tragic? Then we ensure that information is accessible to everyone at unexpected times.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u96	Of course, we all have this terrible event on the retina. The moment this plan comes, we'll look at it with those eyes. I understand that the Chamber itself has already made statements to the cabinet on this kind of situation; in my view, even by means of a motion. So this certainly has our attention. Mr. Chairman. I have taken a close look at the amendment to item No. 13. I thought, "This is already taken care of, isn't it?" The law states that there must be a drafting statute. It also states that the Commissariat must maintain. You are actually giving a little more legal basis in case something is on paper but it is not yet working. Moreover, we do not have any specific cases showing that something would be going on. You shielded a little bit with that, but at least we don't know them. But I can imagine this clarification in the law, so I am giving this amendment judgment Chamber. Then perhaps the Commissioner has a little more in his hands than just seeing that there's a piece of paper somewhere. Of course, it's supposed to work. That was already implicit in the law, but it is not literally there, so in that respect you have looked very closely at the law; my compliments for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u97	The amendment in part No. 13 gets judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u98	Mr President, the whole issue of double transmission. That, in my view, is the amendment to item No. 9, by members Van der Molen and Aartsen. Those two pull tight, we notice. I've hesitated for a moment, I tell you in all honesty. We discussed it in the budget debate. At that time I indicated that it would just be the most beautiful thing I understand the problem if one settles it with one another. That is not the case, as it turns out. Then, of course, there is always the possibility of this being a bridge to the previous reply about the Commissioner to submit it to the Commissioner. They have not yet been used, as far as I am aware. Yeah, that happened once in the gray past, but I don't know about that. So my information is that it hasn't happened yet, but I can imagine that Members are thinking: the law is there now; now we can just legally guarantee it. This amendment can therefore be judged by the Chamber, but I hope that, where appropriate, people will simply try to complete the path that has just been laid down.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u99	The amendment in part No. 9 gets judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u100	I am, of course, extremely pleased with that. Let me take a look at Mr Aartsen, who also smiles widely. However, I would just like to make the point: it is indeed very disappointing, because we had adopted a motion and because the Chamber and, moreover, the Minister had indicated that this is an undesirable situation. We have also had contact with Ziggo ourselves, because the amendment of a law that is the last resort must be done in good consultation. But we are once again opposed to each other in the hope that the Commissariat will give its opinion again. If you can't get out of it and if you make hundreds of millions of sales a year and face small local broadcasters, with budgets that sometimes don't even exceed the €25,000, then you should be really ashamed. That is why we thought it appropriate to try to regulate this by law now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u101	This is an explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u102	Yeah, clear. I didn't hear another question either. Otherwise, I will withdraw my judgment, but I do not believe that Mr Van der Molen wants it to be. Mr Van der Molen had a question about economical handling of the exemption from the subtitle requirement. Indeed, that is the intention, but there can sometimes be very small niches that we say have added value but that these requirements are very high. But it is really intended to do so with extreme restraint. We will, of course, be watching that. We are also confident that the Commissioner will deal with the power it is given on an informed basis. Mr. Chairman. Mrs Westerveld asked about the debate on levies. You received a letter about that. You know that the cabinet is a little broader than just this govern ment; this is also a matter of culture and culture, among other things, is in the process of coming up with proposals. There is also an investigation going on, because we have indicated that we also want to find out a few more things ourselves. The intention is to return to your room before the summer. Mr. Chairman. I have also received a question about the protection of journalists and about freedom of the press. Mr Sneller actually started it, but others of you have also talked about it. It is indeed extremely important that we cherish this freedom with each other and, wherever possible, protect it, because that freedom is not self-evident. In our own country, too, we have had a number of situations where you find that journalists can't always do their job anymore, when we were used to it in this country. We have also discussed this in various meetings in committee rooms. That's intense. So that's what we stand for. You know that my colleague from Justice and Security has made agreements with the journalistic sector. Recently they have come together again, also on the basis of the things that go wrong. So that's what we're fighting for, and that's what we're standing for. This freedom also includes the fact that politics does not simply pass on all kinds of programmes and judgments. That is what I am saying in the direction of Mr Bosma. Of course I know he has very clear views. He can also formulate them very sharply, but we have agreed very clearly with each other, including in the area of public service broadcasting, that we are making agreements with them, and that there are moments in the year, particularly when we are dealing with the budget, when we are assessing whether these agreements have been complied with. We also know that if we have objections to what is being disseminated through public service broadcasting, we are also giving citizens opportunities to appeal against it. That applies to every citizen in this country. There are even citizens who take this very seriously. You have given me Mr Karskens' report again. That report was already in my possession. That was even on the table when we were dealing with the budget. At that time, there was no discussion of that report, but especially at the request of the PVV, I received that report. I've taken note of it, too. I am glad that we have a free press in this country. I am also pleased with the public service as we have it. Of course, there is something to say about it and we have discussions about it. But when we see what the performance of our public service broadcasting is and what it contributes to our democratic society, even when it comes to the provision of news, we are truly lucky to be living in this country. We will have to stay focused on its functioning. That is why we are now discussing a legislative proposal and I am about to come up with a vision letter on the future. Again, I have a great deal of respect and appreciation for all those people who, sometimes even in very difficult circumstances, do their job and ensure that our democracy can also function in a good way on the basis of the freedom of the press.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u103	I find it a little strange that the Minister calls me literally in one breath with people who make physical threats to people from the press. I hope he didn't mean it that way. The Minister says: there is something to be noticed at the NPO. It is not a question of pointing out that I am concerned with something very fundamental, namely that the law is not being implemented. I note that the Minister's reply does not attack my position. I say the NPO doesn't enforce the law. That's a big deal. The Minister ignores that, while it is the most fundamental discussion we can have. If he seems to agree with me that the NPO doesn't implement the law, should we continue to subsidise?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u104	I did not want to put Mr Bosma in line with people who sometimes do so with weapons, or threaten the press. On the other hand, I do think you shop very selectively in everything that goes out through the media. You do this in such a way, and again and again, that it is almost a drop that the stone is a bit hollowing out. I think that's quite risky, I say in your direction. You are right to say that we must monitor the implementation of the law together. We made very good agreements on that. We have also created supervisors who independently have their work to do and report to us on this. Every year the reports on this matter come to you. We make performance agreements, we keep track of the agreements made, and we have arranged very well what you can do if there is criticism. That's right, it's public money. Even if ordinary citizens in the country comment on what is being shown, they can allow independent eyes to look at it in a good place and make an assessment. That's how we set up our order. I think that's what I want to say about it, with one more addition that I'm really proud of this country where we have a press like this. By the way, the commercials also contribute to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u105	I'm also very proud of this country. I have asked a number of specific questions, which are actually operationalising what I have said. I asked: how many climate realists does the NPO take the floor? How many supporters of Black Pete? How many opponents of the Syrian exodus to the Netherlands? How many supporters of Trump do we see at the NPO? How many Islam critics do we see? How many of the EU's opponents are being allowed to speak? I don't see them. I have never admitted to the NPO, but I sometimes miss a program called Black Piet a supporter. I do see a tsunami of haters from Black Piet. That's just one example. It also applies to all the other things I mention here. It's one-sided, one-sided, one-sided. In the first media debate we had with this minister, he began to remember that he is a follower of Green of Princer. His party used to be the GPV and that was a division of the ARP, because they thought they became too left-wing. Surely there must be something in Minister Slob about what I agree with and observing the NPO's collusion with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u106	Mr President, how much time do we have? This is a very interesting debate, especially if my political history, at least from the currents I was part of, is also brought into the debate. But in the way that Mr Bosma deals with it, here is a historian who can be criticized. You have indeed asked very precise questions about numbers. You know that it is not for me to reply to that in this way and, so to speak, to sit behind the television with a piece of paper and to keep track of who is who and in what box it should be stopped. We have made very good agreements on this, including with regard to the supervision of our public service broadcasting. I have indicated how complaints such as those can be dealt with. We are indeed assessing public service broadcasting on the basis of the law, but also on the basis of agreements we have made with them under the law. We do that at the appropriate moments. This law is not one of those now, because it had a slightly different approach. I do object, however, to the suggestion that there is only one course of action, that pluralism is not guaranteed and that we are dealing with a public service broadcaster that would not work. That is not the truth as we see it on a daily basis either. We do want something to change in the future, also in the context of all kinds of developments that are taking place. We have already exchanged that with each other, and I will return to that in my vision letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u107	Mr. Bosma, your interruptions are flowery...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u108	Thank you for the compliment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u109	...but I'm looking at the clock. Can you make a brief interruption?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u110	In any case, I am pleased that the Minister is responding for the first time to my statement. I am pleased that I had to bring in Green from Prinsterer. The law is clear and talks about balanced, pluralism and journalistic quality standards. The minister says he's not gonna sit on TV. I understand that, but it is a broader story that I want the law to be respected, and there are a lot of complaints about it, and fortunately with more and more people. That's what happens when it comes to immigrants. Then there's someone from the NPO counting immigrants, no matter what they look like. Apparently, that kind of diversity is there for the NPO. Surely there is something fundamentally wrong when we are going to tarnish people on their skin color but not keep an eye on whether there is a bit of a balance, for example between the left and right and progressive and conservative?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u111	The legislative text will then be developed in more detailed rules and performance agreements with the public service broadcaster. You know them, because they also pass the Chamber. It'll be decided by the Chamber, too. I note that there are often wishes in the Chamber to take things off or add to them. That is the debate that can be held. Mr Bosma has the right to speak with full force in order to make these agreements at those moments. I object to creating an image of our public service broadcasting, based on selective shopping, because that's what I think. It is your own judgment of certain things, because it might be that someone else has looked at them and has a different picture. In this way, I find our public service broadcasting to be unwelcome and inappropriate. I am in favour of our public service broadcasting being able to do its job in peace, freedom and independence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u112	You've come to the end of your term?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u113	I think I have dealt with all the questions and amendments and so on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u114	Then we move on to the second term of office. I would like to give the floor to Mr Sneller. No? Then Mr Kwint, but he left for a while. I give the floor to Mr Aartsen of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u115	Mr. Chairman. As far as I'm concerned, it can be quite short. I would like to thank colleagues and the Minister for their reply. I am busy with Mr Van der Molen to properly process the input to our proposed amendment. This will take some time, including with the lawyers, so we will come back to that in writing. Thank you for the pleasant treatment. In the end, this will make the amendments and thus the law much better.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u116	Thank you. Mr. Kwint.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u117	Excuse me, Mr President, but my planning was somewhat confused by the enthusiasm with which Mr Sneller wanted to conclude this debate. About the indexing. The minister's acting like there's some noise on the line. During the debate, I thought that this was not the case as far as we are concerned. The amendment was about budgetary security. Let me ask you a very specific question, with an example of calculation: OCW will receive €100 in Star revenue this year. Suppose the market develops in such a way that OCW will receive €102 in Star revenue next year. How much does the NPO get in the year after that? €100 or €102? That is what I think is at the heart of the debate on indexing and whether or not the Star is one of them. I can already hear the enthusiasm with which Mr. Aartsen wants to turn it into €80. I know that from the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u118	If Mr Kwint had had a little knowledge of how Star revenue has developed in recent years, he knew that it would probably go down rather than up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u119	That's why it's a math example, Mr. Aartsen. On the sidelines of this debate, I will explain to you once again the difference between reality and arithmetical examples and the usefulness that arithmetical examples sometimes have to interpret reality. About the future of the Star we await the Media Letter. The Minister knows our preference. If I may believe De Telegraaf, useful steps may be taken there. He's got some good information on this file. The same applies to top incomes. I already had my motion on how to handle top incomes, to be honest. It's there anyway, I'll tell you what. However, since we have asked for additional information and the Minister has asked for additional information, we thought it wise to wait for that moment and first see what comes out of the investigation. But as far as we are concerned, it is still clear that no one paid with tax money should earn more than the Prime Minister, no matter how often he or she presents a talk show.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u120	Thank you. Mrs. Van den Hul.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u121	Mr. Chairman. As far as indexation is concerned, I fully agree with the words of my predecessor. As far as we are concerned, the amendment leaves no room for ambiguity. Moreover, it is an amendment that was voted for by a large part of the current coalition, including the current minister. We hope, therefore, that there will be a turnaround. I also asked questions about that other index, namely the CPI. The Minister said very quickly: that is not how we do it. I think that's a little short. So that's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the indexing of the media budget is based on the consumer price index, while a large proportion of the budget reaches salaries and working conditions;]] [[considers that salaries and working conditions in the public sector, including public service broadcasting, should at least be able to grow with increases in wages in the market;]] [[calls on the government to assess the impact of the government's indexation of the media budget on wage and price adjustments instead of the consumer price index,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van den Hul and Mr Kwint. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35042-15]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u122	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for the answers. We look forward very much to the letter to come. Then we can really have this debate on the future of public service broadcasting together. We are pleased that a roadmap is being drawn up to ensure that programmes are also accessible. That's what we asked for earlier. I am glad that this was also given the attention of the Minister in this debate. It is good that we have had a positive response to a number of amendments. Mr. Chairman. There is one more point I have also raised in my contribution on this subject, and that is the position of foreign major media organisations. I said it in my contribution: the amount that Netflix earns in the Netherlands is already as large as the proceeds of all cinema tickets in one year, while the first cinema came to the Netherlands in 1906 and Netflix in 2013. We see that the entire media landscape is just turned upside down because of the arrival of a large number of large foreign providers. We think we should be ready for that. That is why I am tabling a motion on the streaming charge. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that, inter alia, the Culture Council warns that the growing presence in the influence of large foreign parties, with mainly international content, seriously jeopardises the viability of the Dutch media sector;]] [[whereas Netflix earns about the same amount in the Netherlands as the proceeds of all cinema tickets;]] [[Considering that large multinationals such as Apple Inc. and The Walt Disney Company are also expected to enter the Dutch streaming market shortly;]] [[Whereas international streaming providers hardly invest in new Dutch content;]] [[invites the government to examine, together with the field, the implementation of a streaming charge in which the proceeds flow back to media institutions producing Dutch content,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Westerveld. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35042-16]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u123	Mr. Chairman. On my behalf, too, I would like to thank you for at least the appreciation of the amendments tabled by me and Mr Aartsen. I have asked the Minister another question about the exceptions that the Minister can allow to channels so that they do not have to comply with the rule that 50% of the supply on them should be of European origin. I asked the Minister how he handled that. It is important for our own producers but also to ensure that we are not inundated with only outside European productions, that this is maintained in this way. I would like to hear from the Minister how he deals with these exemptions, because they have to be carefully considered in relation to the CDA. If he can't do that now, I think it's okay to do it in writing, because we're running out of time right now. I would very much like to receive an answer on this point, also because I have received an answer from the Minister to all the other questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u124	Thank you. I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u125	Mr. Chairman. A few more questions have been asked. Mr Kwint is trying to draw me into a calculation example. I am not going to do that, but it is clear that we simply have a difference of opinion on this part about what the legislator has ever meant. There are actually two positions. An amendment has been tabled and I myself have clarified in the law as we think it was necessary. Then we shall see what the majority of the Chamber ultimately thinks about that. Mrs Van den Hul agreed to the questions...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u126	Before you proceed, Mr Kwint has a question or a comment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u127	I had noticed that Mr Aartsen is not such a fan of mathematics. That math sample isn't for nothing. It's about what happens when OCW has fluctuating Star revenue. That's not an example, that's just the practice. In that example, I used the number 100, because this makes it a little easier to understand. If Star revenue increases in the Ministry due to market developments, will that amount go to the NPO or not?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u128	We have seen in the past that if there were more revenue than estimated, which went to the media reserve.................................................................................................................................................................................................. Those are substantial amounts that many times exceed the difference that was discussed in 2018 due to the indexation. Those amounts have been used to close the holes that have been created. That's the way we agreed. So we also have very clear agreements on how we do it when there are more revenue or less revenue. If, at the end of the day, there is no structural money to close the gaps, then we can't do that every year to change the minimum contribution, as we have unfortunately had to talk about over the last few months.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u129	I know that arrangement. But if it goes up slightly because of autonomous price increases, then it isn't sent directly to the NPO, for example? Then it goes to the media reserve, where all kinds of other things are done out, which also do not always benefit the NPO, for example?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u130	I am sorry that I have to say it at this stage of the debate, but in the end so much extra money has gone to the NPO in recent years because there were just disappointing revenues. We have always done so because we had agreed on it and the general media reserve that fortunately also allowed it. If we had not agreed on a general media reserve, but we had said in the past that all the extra revenue would go directly to the treasury, so to speak, we would now be in a very different situation. The NPO has always made grateful use of this and it was allowed to do so, because that was the way the rules were. That is why it is annoying that we are suddenly getting a difference of opinion about this indexation in 2018, also in the light of everything that has happened in the years before. Mrs Van den Hul has tabled a motion. I did go through it a little quickly, also given the time and also because we just didn't introduce it. I can imagine that she thinks that when we move towards a new concession period, it is a pleasure to have some information on this point. So if I can understand her in such a way that the cabinet provides information on what is the difference between this system and the system that we have always maintained so far, and she does not ask me to involve all kinds of research offices but we simply sort it out in order, then I will give this motion judgment Chamber and we will give you that information as well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u131	The Van den Hul/Kwint motion in part No. 15 gets judgment room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u132	Mrs Westerveld has a motion on part No. 16 on the charges. I've indicated that the Cabinet will deliver a letter before the summer. This will be an overall cabinet response to these charges. So I would ask her to hold the motion until that letter arrives. If she wants to put the motion to the vote, I'll advise her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u133	The motion in part No. 16 is discouraged or detained. Mrs. Westerveld?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u134	I would, of course, be happy to continue the motion, provided that the letter becomes very specific. The reason I tabled the motion was because we have heard different sounds from the cabinet so far and because we really want to make haste. I can now hear the Minister say that before the summer there will be a piece of your direction, in which we will specifically address these charges, on various subjects relating to media and culture. If that's the case, I'll hold the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u135	There is also simply an opinion from the Culture Council on which we will respond. That's a pretty broad advice. So we will also come up with a broad response. You've already been promised that. That's why I'm dissuading this motion. But if you hold the motion, it's better. Then you can wait for the letter to arrive.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u136	At the request of Mrs Westerveld, I propose her motion (35042, No. 16) by the Court of Justice. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u137	I thought I had already given Mr Van der Molen an answer to his question. But I can do it in one word: reserved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u138	That concludes this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-7.u139	The motion and the amendments tabled will be put to the vote on Tuesday, with the amended amendment to item No. 11 will still be sent around. This will be followed by a written assessment by the Minister. I'll suspend for a few moments.
