ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u1	The next item is the continuation of the budget for Economic Affairs and Climate Change. Welcome to the Minister and Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and Climate. Welcome to the Members of Parliament, the support of both the governors and the Members of Parliament, and welcome to the people who are following this debate in a different way or in a different way. Mr Graus mentions the Chamberlains and security. I'm gonna thank all of them at the end, Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u2	We had the first term of office yesterday, so I would like to be the first to give the floor to the Minister. The Minister has indicated that he will first make a very brief introduction. After that, he will indicate the number of blocks through which the questions will be answered. The same goes for the Secretary of State, I think. I am happy to give the floor to the Minister. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u3	Mr President, thank you. I wanted to start with Tata Steel Nederland. As far as I am concerned, a number of Members have done the same. There are reports of reorganisations. None of that is final. There is still a long way to go, but that has probably made the people who work there very insecure. That's extremely unpleasant. I am grateful to those Members who have drawn attention to this. Mrs Beckerman and Mr Moorlag have begun to do so. I think there's a broader interest...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u4	No, I started that. I was the first speaker.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u5	The Minister has the floor and Mr Graus states that he has also asked a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u6	Thank you very much also to Mr Graus. There is also an even wider interest, for the Netherlands. If there is a place in the world where a strong, innovative and sustainable steel industry can thrive, that is here. This was already the case with the conditions of establishment in accordance with the old classical steel industry, but this will be even more so in the case of sustainable steel industries. It is also clear, of course, that there is a global malaise in the steel industry. It is to be expected that measures will have to be taken. I have very intensive contact, both with the department and myself, with the top of Tata Steel Nederland. In that intensive contact, I made arrangements. One of the agreements is that the Executive Board and the Dutch Supervisory Board have indicated that they are now in the first place and that at the same time we are in close contact with the second agreement and that all assistance from the Dutch Government can be provided. I cannot go so far as to say what that might be for help, but there is very intensive contact there. The expectation is that more will be known next week and that we will have that contact again. Mr President, I really had to start with that. I just wanted to say a few words before going to the different blocks, logically economics, climate and energy, and gas extraction. What you see, and what I realize when I put together my speech in this way, is that the concept of prosperity in this budget debate, as well as in recent debates, is reflected in all kinds of qualities. The concept of prosperity is discoloured. In a positive sense, we see prosperity as a pillar under our way of life, a driver of freedom. Don't forget the purchasing power, by the way. We all think it's very important. That's a good thing. The issue of prosperity is also discussed in a negative sense. We now know more than ever: emissions, nuisances, climate issues, earthquakes, space seizure. That too is a negative side of prosperity. Recently, in the public debate, we have seen that there is too little of the positive and too much of the negative at all times. I am trying to say in this debate that it is quite clear in the coalition agreement that it is not, as far as I am concerned, either or. It is not: we choose less purchasing power and less jobs or we choose more emissions, more global warming and less nature. It's not all that. It's got to be en-and. The coalition agreement has decided that we can both improve the purchasing power of households and win our fight against the molecules: CO, nitrogen, phosphate. Smell particles aren't a molecule, they're also those. This means that we must stick to the facts and pursue sensible policies. That is what this debate is about, but it is, as far as I am concerned, explicit and explicit. Mr. Chairman. I will briefly comment on the economy, because questions have been asked about it. There were questions about the growth strategy. There's another letter on that, so I'll be very brief. Energy and climate are discussed. The follow-up of climate and energy exploration (KEV). Then all questions about the rollout, including the RES's. Inside, biomass is covered, the Environmental Management Act, everything related to heat grids, the Heat Act and the energy bill. My third block is gas extraction: the progress, the acceleration measures of the reinforcement and a single question about damage. But I'm talking about prosperity. As I have said before, sustainable prosperity is what the Ministry of EZK stands for and what is always the least of the questions asked. Prosperity is extremely important. The Netherlands is, of course, a rich country. We all got that out of the Millions Note. If we take out all kinds of oil countries and all small countries that sometimes have a special reason to be rich, then we are the second richest country per capita on earth. But there's something about that. Let me take a point in time: 2002. In 2002, the dotcom crisis had ended. We may have forgotten the dotcom crisis, but in 2002 the dotcom crisis was over. Since that time we have gained 20% to 25% prosperity per capita. A day in a week we gained prosperity. If we had divided all this as much as in that period, then households' incomes would have grown along. In fact, if we add that quarter, each household would now have about €10,000 net per year to spend more. What happened to that $10,000? How much of this has actually ended up in the household wallet? Very little. Because it collapsed first. After that, it was in Rutte II and III, but in terms of household income we are still not above the level of 2002. Housekeeping. Net disposable. How is that possible? There are all good reasons for what the whole political centre, but also, frankly, many of the flanks, has chosen: a solid old age, good care, paying off public debt, sound public finances. Those are wise choices I'd make again. At the same time, I dare to say that the growth in the household wallet is also of real importance. Perhaps that is not so much the case for you or for me personally, I dare say on behalf of all of us, but there are all kinds of people with very legitimate wishes in the field of living, training, something for the children, a cleaner car or whatever. If you have been with two children since 2002, at €1,500 net in the month, you can say without false shame that you want to have some. If that is what we are aiming for, then we must look forward. So let's do a little math. In the meantime, the CPB has done the same. My calculation dates back to a year ago. That's when I calculated what that's like over the next few decades. For the coming decades, I'll just take the growth expectations, the cost of care, old age and all those things more, and then I'll see that there's little left for the household wallet again. Again, another two decades in which prosperity grows, but the household wallet hardly. I don't think we should be selling that as a message. Suppose we say to Dutch people: after two decades without growth in the household wallet, there are now two decades without growth in the household wallet. That doesn't ring a bell. I don't think that's possible. If we want to do something about it, we need to start doing it now, because it will be about the coming decades. It's not gonna be any easier than it used to be. First of all, the recipe of prosperity has changed. We were so fond of our old rules, but we're not anymore. Unhindered emissions -- is that another rule of the game? Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Bringing in head offices with tax flow facilities? We don't do that anymore. The safe backwind of gas revenues? That's not gonna happen. In addition, there are all kinds of renovations at the door. In the energy supply we have a transition, we have one in the industry, and we have one in the agricultural sector. I may count something different from Mr Van der Lee, who comes to four, but together we will come to five. That means we have to do something now. As of the end of last year, at the beginning of this year we are working on this and we have reversed all bookcases with recent economic books and had all the specialists at the table. Last week I had the great honour of speaking to a Nobel Prize winner. I am not going to unfold a letter that is not yet there and a growth strategy that is not yet there, but I can already say that some of those lessons are quite universal. The first is that, of course, prosperity is not determined by very different things than before. Education, innovation, infrastructure and the labour market, of course, remain important things. There haven't been any new buttons on the dashboard all of a sudden. That's not true. Furthermore, it remains true that if we make a pot of it here, the inner cities will not be safe, the legal certainty is not in order and the viability in towns and villages will be affected. So you can't say that you don't do certain things anymore, because they wouldn't be so important to prosperity. The kind of country we are is indeed a determining factor for prosperity. But one lesson from economic science across all areas is that these areas are still the same, but we have done so much about them in recent years that further incremental steps or steps no longer tick. You're forced to make choices at some point. This inevitably means a greater role for a government in terms of direction on transitions, space, infra, and in terms of legislation and arrangements: education, labour market, taxation, and you name it all. In the context of investment, the Millions Note referred to a fund. Mr Van der Lee asks me what I think of Mazzucato. I'm not a book talker, and I'm not gonna discuss it here either. Otherwise, I might have to confess that I was very impressed by the first work and found the second messed up. But I'm not gonna deal with that right now. But yes, bigger government roles: that will have to be done here and there. Here comes a letter with a growth strategy. It must of course be updated over and over the next 20 years, because we cannot look ahead for 20 years. Nor can we say that this part of artificial intelligence now needs so much euro. We really can't do that right now. So that goes on. And of course, everything somehow contributes to growth; and the letter is not about everything. Mr Van der Lee has made further suggestions to me about the employment rate of women, the transitions. He's gonna see it. Thanks for all the suggestions. One question by Mr Van der Lee deserves particular attention. That is what I want to be critical of in one way or another, when the intentions may be the same. Mr Van der Lee mentions long-term value creation. That's a term I've spent fifteen years in that world really only know of shareholdervalue. And that is not what Mr Van der Lee means. I don't think he should use that term either. Mr Hoekstra has said things about it and I am going to say things that are not contrary to what he has said. But I'll try to clarify them. An investment which the government wants to make for growth is not primarily about a favourable financial return. A financial return is from a private party that revolves around its own money to make it better for itself, so that its investors and pension funds get a return on it. It's not that. Invest-NL is helping, but this is not. The second is that, of course, investment must have social added value in itself. You don't want to use public money and public money to destroy value for all of us. Of course, you don't want to make the world worse, you don't want a negative cost-benefit analysis. But a social cost-benefit analysis, which is very much my point, is not enough. This is also about earning power. This means that within the harness of a sustainable society, with all the requirements attached to it, and within our task of reducing CO2 emissions and all the other molecules, we are definitely looking for earning power. Why? In twenty years' time, we want to be able to pay for these collective arrangements, which we are so attached to, such as care, old age benefits and all the rest. We also want to be able to sit here in 20 years' time and say that there has been an improvement in purchasing power. This is the aim of the government with earning power: explicitly within these conditions, but aimed at safeguarding our prosperity and our way of life, in order to serve not only the public arrangements but also the purchasing power with them. That is my answer to Mr Van der Lee's concern, but at the same time it is my answer to the VVD, who asked about the growth strategy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u7	Mr Van der Lee has a question. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u8	I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. I understand that he does not want to anticipate much of the content of that letter, but I do have a question about that term 'long-term value creation'. I didn't start Unilever's case for nothing. Our challenge, which the Minister also has, is that there are financial and economic indicators that can be quantified very well, but that is much more difficult for ecological or social values. That is what business is struggling with, and that is what we are struggling with in politics. You want those two worlds to come together, so that we quantify much better what we want in those social and ecological areas, and we are going to realize that with each other. I hope that the Minister will also take that way of thinking into account when thinking about the letter of growth and the investment fund, because I am also concerned about that earning capacity. I also want to excel where the highest added value can be created in this small, densely populated country.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u9	Yes. Let me say that I cannot distinguish for the next 20 years exactly what activities that should be. That's not a strategy either. You won't. I'd say, if you think you can tell me what to invest in for the next 20 years, you're sure you're totally wrong. Then you're fucking stupid. However, it is clear that the entire earning power strategy is in that light and must take place within these conditions. This means that we have to meet our climate objectives and that we also have work to do in other areas and in other molecules. Within these conditions, it has to be.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u10	I think that we need to discuss this much more at another time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u11	I think so, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u12	I have one other question, however, about the timing and extent of these investments. I do not need to hear any hard sums of money about this, but certainly in the light of the medium-term reconnaissance of the planning agency, you will see that in the next cabinet period collective expenditure is being called upon, because of the points you mentioned, such as care and ageing. Then I have a question about the timing of the investments from that fund. When are they gonna start? In what period does the Minister intend to achieve the effect he, and the entire cabinet, intends to achieve? Can he say anything more about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u13	I will come back to that in the first quarter together with the Minister of Finance. I thought for a moment that Mr Van der Lee referred to a question that I mistakenly did not answer, namely to what extent private capital is being mobilised. The Mer à boire of investment in our society is private. We're just giving that little public backup to make sure the private is going well. This is not going to be a society in which all the investments that need to be made are made by the government. That would destroy us. We'd do the wrong thing. We should be looking at each other very much. This is a society in which private parties do things, but sometimes a government is needed to ensure that it goes in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u14	There is a question from Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u15	Yeah, maybe even two. I heard the Minister start discussing the situation at Tata Steel. That's perfectly right. The concerns of the workers there are real. But you should also note that what Tata Steel is doing as a company is going exactly according to the neoliberal model that the VVD adheres to so far, namely: finding where it is most cheap or optimal. At the same time, I also hear the Minister making a plea for a different type of economy. That is welcome; that is good news. He gives a few characteristics of that. It has to stay within limits. We're gonna hear more about that. And now my question, because we had practiced together, Mr President, that that would be short and concise...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u16	Yes. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u17	Sorry, Chairman. Is the Minister, after all, taking a little distance from that neoliberal gene that is in the VVD? And two: I assume that the minister in the new plans also assumes the broad concept of prosperity. He himself said that his ambition is to maintain our way of life. It costs 2.9 globes, so that's not possible. How's the Minister handling that? Those are my two questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u18	I have never seen a good definition of neoliberal; I think Mr Van Raan simply means the capitalist model. But in all honesty, call me one non-capitalist country with a cleaner and more advanced steel industry than the Netherlands. I think that linking the economic system to the emissions of the steel industry is at least a statement that would not last five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u19	Yes!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u20	No, not at all. It is quite possible to have a system of private entrepreneurship and private shareholdership in which as a government you simply set limits to which parties must adhere. We have a law and law enforcement for that. That is the way to force private parties not only to care about their own shareholder value, but also society, because it is enforced by law. There's nothing weird about that. In many countries that do not embrace Mr Van Raan's so-called neoliberalism, the steel industry is probably a lot dirtier than it is with us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u21	Mr. Van Raan. Next question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u22	No, Mr. Chairman. I'm not falling for that. I do note that the Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u23	No, no, we're not. You'll have a second term. You ask the question and you get an answer. You are talking about your question and the Minister is talking about the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u24	At the same time, there is a form of industry blur, because I always need Mr Van Raan to point out the importance of global warming. But now he's going to overthrow the capitalist system, which is exactly what Mr Futselaar usually does...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u25	No, no. The Minister is not going to challenge Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u26	Well, he did. So I can respond to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u27	Well, very briefly, one sentence. A very small sentence.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u28	That's bullshit!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u29	That's it. Thank you. Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u30	Well, these were about my words from before. So we're back on the same page.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u31	Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u32	The Minister keeps a very general story here. He almost moves an iron over all political folds. The point of his argument is in fact: what can you disagree with? But when it comes to purchasing power, it's not uniform. We have labour from income and we have labour from capital. We see that purchasing power from labour is stagnating and income from capital is increasing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u33	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u34	Yes, I do. The return on all assets, the return on real estate is just rising sharply right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u35	Your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u36	My question is: is it right to place purchasing power here so undifferentiated, as if it were a uniform concept, and is it not a very divisive issue?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u37	We are in complete agreement. Gross domestic product can go to companies and to households or households, and within households it can still be distributed in a variety of ways. It would have been quite possible, I read that in the newspaper, sometimes, there is an increasing proportion of our national income going to companies and an ever smaller proportion to labour. It could have been. Only, that's not true. It's tracked. The labour income quote is a bit bumpy. We are now simply on the long-term average in terms of distribution between company income and household income. So it could have been. It's a relevant parameter. It's first-class economics. By "first class," I mean not "bridge class," but a high standard of economic thinking. It is a relevant question, but it is not the case now. We have to keep an eye on it, but it's not the case now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u38	A follow-up question, Mr. Moorlag?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u39	On that point, let us decide on 'Agree to Disagree'. The second concerns the growth letter. Let me go into this more concretely. Earnings and economic growth are driven to a large extent by the level of education of people. We have a drying labour market. I drew attention to this last year and also said that the shortage of labour is the biggest obstacle to economic growth. Is increasing the level of education, in particular lifelong learning, which has been the subject of 20 years but which has never been properly completed, to be part of that growth letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u40	I just said I don't make statements about a growth letter that isn't there. But let me put it this way: if this was Mr Moorlag's attempt to disagree with me, it did not succeed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u41	You'll continue with the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u42	I just wanted to check on the climate agreement. My summary of the passing on of the Climate Agreement was: test done, but got a lot of new homework. "Taste achieved" was my relief, which Mr. Van der Lee didn't listen at all; he didn't have to listen to either. The relief was that we had passed the test, but my disappointment was of course that we received a lot more than expected new homework. To what do I conclude that I can still be somewhat relieved, while at the same time succumbing to homework? This is to a large extent the way in which we intend to travel to 49% in the Climate Agreement and in the Climate Act. For very good reasons, agreements have been made in the Climate Act on how to force a government to reach 49%. One way would have been to change the policy after each pass-through and always make sure that we go by that percentage. That was not chosen in the Climate Act, for very good reasons. Because if you change policy every year, you'll probably have a negotiation every year. Then you also have a chance to never get there. A very firm rhythm is therefore agreed in the Climate Act. This means that in climate and energy exploration every year you first look at whether the measures are being taken. Because if someone commits a measure but doesn't take it, it's wrong every year. That's what you watch every year. You keep parties to their agreements. That's what the progress monitor is for. It may also be that you do not risk taking the tonnes with those measures and that you say: you have contracted for so many tonnes; you may take those measures, but from your measures these tonnes do not come. This means that every two years you have to keep parties insisting that their measures should lead to those tonnes. If these measures do not lead to them, they must devise additional measures. It has to be every other year. But you may also find that the task itself has changed. That's not about the barrels, it's about the percentages. Every five years you look like this in the Climate Act, whether it is necessary to change the policy at all and also the task. That is probably going to be necessary in some time, because we see that the task has changed. The CBS has found a lot of statistics in the basement. There were emissions in there. That means that the task has changed. But my commitment is to follow the climate law here and to stick exactly to the climate agreement. Not only do I like to follow the law, but I also like to follow the Climate Agreement, in which that law was underlying. With a climate agreement less than six months old, I would be insane to unilaterally cancel my agreements and to keep parties to things that had not been agreed. I have therefore concluded a tonne contract with these parties with measures to that end. Every year we look at whether these measures are being implemented. In two years, we'll see if that leads to the barrels. And in five years, we'll see if that leads to that 49%. Then the whole task must also be changed. That's what parties know. So a task can go up. You do all that to not have to shoot a running deer all day, but to get some stability. In fact, I had to hear in the debate that someone I do not see here right now... Mr Stoffer thought it was too turbulent. However, it is up to Mr Stoffer to get used to it, because he too is subject to the Climate Law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u43	You call Mr Stoffer. He signed out for tonight. That is why he is not in the Chamber at the moment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u44	In this case, he goes into legal history.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u45	I see a question from Mr Van der Lee. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u46	Since we are also having a separate debate on climate and energy exploration and on the climate plan, I am going to be brief. We passed the test. Relieved. The Minister gives his interpretation of the Climate Law. The Climate Act is based on a plan with which you start to achieve that goal. Now we see that that plan is not enough to achieve that goal, so your starting point is not enough.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u47	It is to get the barrels.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u48	Mr Van der Lee has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u49	That's what it started with.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u50	Mr Van der Lee's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u51	The Climate Act is not talking about those tonnes, but about a 49% reduction in 2030. The Climate Act is different from the Climate Agreement. I understand the Minister's reasoning on the Climate Agreement, but not in his interpretation of the Climate Law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u52	Your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u53	That law is written so that you start with a plan that leads to the goal. If you come across things gradually or when things change, you can adjust them, but according to the law, you're not supposed to start with a backlog.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u54	There may be some light between our interpretation of laws, but I'm going to try to close the gap again, because I'm going to say the following. Look, this government, in accordance with the rhythm of the Climate Act I have just indicated, is determined to achieve 49% with mathematical precision. And if we are able to raise European targets, that goal will be even higher. That is the commitment, and we are going to do so in a way that every artist in the Climate Agreement knows. This is because an additional effort can be required at regular intervals along the lines I have just outlined. We're gonna get that 49%. In the 14% renewable energy sector, the commitment is precisely to achieve this. We are doing this through, among other things, an additional package of measures, which I sent to the Chamber. I may not have to dwell on that for too long. But there is also the commitment to make it. That is what we are doing with measures that we in the Netherlands may not consider to be brilliant in our opinion, but which we believe to be perfectly legitimate in the Commission. We are trying to minimize them, by the way. The stakes are to get that 14%. And the 25% of Urgenda is once again the bet to make it. We have agreed an Urgenda package of 0.5 billion for that. I have recently announced additional measures. In parallel with the problem of nitrogen, measures are expected to be taken again. For example, that hole, which was first 9 and which is now estimated to be 2 as I wrote it in the letter, must always be reduced, excluding the additional package of............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. And the bet on all three is to make it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u55	There are a lot of things I would like to respond to, but we also have a separate debate on Urgenda. Of course, that two megatons is a real illusion. There are a lot of good arguments why that story isn't right, and we're probably going to discuss it extensively next week. You're not gonna make it to that Urgenda target. That that bet has always been there, verbally, is clear. But we never did what was necessary in time to make it. We also have the ongoing discussion with the Climate Agreement: bet on a target with overshoot, so you're sure you're going to make it and not constantly chasing the facts, which we have shown year in, year out as the Netherlands. That's why it's so important that you start with a plan that actually achieves the goal, and not with a plan that you already know in advance that you're not achieving the goal. Doesn't the Minister agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u56	The first time on the steering wheel is 2022. That's well before 2030, isn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u57	A follow-up question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u58	The Minister is going on to do something else, namely the time of change, but it is about the starting point. You have to start with a plan that leads to the goal, not a plan that doesn't lead to the goal? Then you can adjust it if something happens unexpectedly. But the starting point must lead to the goal, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u59	It has been clear from day one that we had a tonne target to start with, hasn't it? Isn't it clear from the documents that the tonne target is being met? It is also clear that we now have a climate law to force the government to take action. Mr. Chairman. There are two more questions about this piece, one by Mr Van Raan and one by Mr Kops. Mr Van Raan asked me why we are not inspired by Denmark for the purpose. I always look at him as an architect of the climate issue, who could also help skeptics in the Chamber, but here he gives a rather suspicious example, because Denmark has indeed a firm goal, which has not yet been fulfilled, which is not yet covered by a climate agreement and which does not yet have a strategy, but has 70% biomass in all its renewable energy. I would like to comment on this from the point of view of Mr Van Raan himself. I'll talk about biomass in a minute. Mr Kops asks why we do not opt for nuclear energy. Once the nuclear operators choose for us, it is not excluded from the energy mix. I have also said enough about this in recent years. I would now like to move on to implementation, because questions have also been asked about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u60	Before you do that, there is a question from Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u61	The Danish biomass targets are known, but we call them because the Danes are legally going to set 70% reduction. That's important.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u62	But ask the Minister your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u63	We were talking about the legal ambition. That's weird, isn't it? The Minister has a lot of argument here that you have to abide by the law, that he assumes that that is the objective and that companies should do the same. But himself, as a government, he is probably not going to obey the law; see that judgment by the judge. Then he calls it a goal at once. That is what we are going to debate extensively next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u64	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u65	But what happens if the government doesn't comply with the law and the conviction, and it stays on track? The answer to that helps everyone prepare. What influence does the Minister think this has on democracy? Everyone must abide by the law, except the government, because it can strive for something.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u66	Your question is clear. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u67	My efforts are aimed at getting it and not at figuring out what's going to happen if I don't make it. But that's what we're talking about next week. They also asked how the transition is progressing. We see it in all kinds of areas. There's a task force infrastructure in progress. The SDE is being widened. The law is coming to you. There will soon be a bill for the CO levy. The parties in the industry themselves come up with all kinds of plans. I was in Groningen at one of those meetings at the regional cluster. Of course it is a lot about hydrogen and about electrification, but I must say that the enthusiasm at the table alone was electrifying. We do things in all kinds of areas. In the field of electricity we are working on the total conversion. In the next few years, 12 billion will go into the high-voltage grid alone. We are currently working on three wind farms at once. Around sunshine there is all kinds of activity, including the code of conduct sun, to which someone in this Chamber has contributed very actively. There are already about 260 companies that have signed up to participate in a hydrogen coalition. We have the first Hydrogen Valley of Europe in the north of the Netherlands. The pride there was right, I thought. I loved it. Really nice job. There's a huge legislative calendar coming up. We're gonna meet then. I thought it might be helpful to consider a few things. One is grid capacity. That's work in progress. In retrospect, we should have looked at the estimates even more critically. It's going much faster than ten years ago thought. You always have to think ten years ahead of net development. We have looked ahead, but we can now see that this has not contributed sufficiently. I've all sent letters about what we're doing about it. You received the letter on short-term measures. But things must also happen in the longer term. We need to make sure this doesn't become a major obstacle. At the beginning of 2020, I will return to the Chamber. Mr Harbers has asked what should happen to the projects that are on hold. If projects are really on hold, they can be postponed; at least if there is space in the short term. If sufficient progress is made with the construction, delay is possible. Projects can also make a new application at another location where there is space. Moreover, an additional opening-up round of the SDE is also a bit aimed at this. Mr Stoffer has asked his recurring question about security of supply. I always respond generously to that, because Mr Stoffer and I have the same stick horse here. The Climate Agreement has made agreements on security of supply. I will come back to this Chamber in mid-2020. TenneT conducts an annual analysis and also looks fifteen years ahead. And we are planning the capabilities among ourselves with the countries in the pentalateral forum, because with wind and sun, you have to plan more and more across countries. What we used to call the "buyer record" was mostly national, but it really becomes very international. The second work in progress is hydrogen. That is very important and there is also a warm interest in it from this Chamber. First of all, hydrogen is simply essential in terms of content, otherwise we would miss an energy carrier with that density. But otherwise, of course, it's just an economic opportunity. The Climate Agreement has really agreed to make an offensive. In the period up to 2021 we make all the preparations. This should lead to 500 megawatts of electrolysis capacity installed between 2022 and 2025. By 2030, that should be 3 to 4 gigawatts. We have an annual cash flow rate for that that will add up to 0.5 billion over the next ten years. In addition, there are research programmes to reduce the cost of electrolysis. I must say that the biggest challenge there is the cost. Again and again I can be shown that there is still a factor of ten to be achieved. We have had this in many areas in the past. For chips, there were much bigger factors. A factor of ten for this is challenging, but many think this is going to work. At the beginning of next year there will be a vision of the use of hydrogen. There is a national hydrogen programme and there is also a roadmap for the scaling up of electrolysis. I have indicated that I do not think that the SDE is suitable at the moment, because the initiatives would go down in that SDE without glory. But because this is so important and indispensable, we need to promote hydrogen by other means. Two initiatives are also mentioned. Firstly, linking the tenders wind at sea to hydrogen. That's important, because wind at sea won't all go with copper. Besides, we don't want to, because you actually need the hydrogen medium. You want wind at sea to play an important role in the production of green hydrogen. This means that this should also be eligible for SDE in the long term. The scale still requires attention. At present, it would be insufficient to play a serious role in the SDE. But that's definitely gonna happen. In the view on hydrogen, I will go into more detail on how we can speed it up. Because I dare, after having spoken with many experts, to guarantee that our wind at sea will ultimately be a major hydrogen producer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u68	That is very nice, because then the vision of the CDA and the cabinet in this case comes together. I hear the Minister talking about some dates ahead of time, while I know that for the coming year, investment decisions may have to be made by companies and there is still an uneconomic summit in them. However, I would like to take a step next year. Is there any money available for that? And how is the Minister gonna take care of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u69	Of course, we have the opportunity to do pilot projects. I believe that D66 and GroenLinks both suggested the electrolysis in Emmen. This is not about wind at sea, but about the hydrogen economy. It's an example. Through pilots, we'll have to do the electrolysis in the next few years. That's obvious. It is also obvious that Emmen is a very good candidate for this. It is also clear that Emmen is not the only candidate. It is conceivable that Zeeland for example failed to call Mr Sienot and Mr Van der Lee. That should not be the reason to place a unique commitment on this. I do not want to do that to Zeeland and neither do other regions in the country that are able to do so. But it's very clear that we have to do with pilots. In the view of hydrogen, I would like to specifically address the question of how we can make the link with the sea. Then we need to see what steps we can take.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u70	Both Zeeland, Emmen and Delfzijl approached me. That is absolutely right. They're all worried about this. Suppose the costs are just a little higher than is possible under the DEI scheme. What can we do, knowing that the SDE++ has not yet been revised and that hydrogen is not yet part of it? There's a concern there. It would be a shame if projects were smothered in the bud, which is the direction we all want to take.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u71	So let's focus our vision on that. If we discover that the DEI is insufficient but we do want things with hydrogen, we need to back up the drawing board and we need to find a solution to that. But first let's see how it works out. There's all kinds of people mathing. They're looking at it. It's not coming today, but it's coming.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u72	Can I conclude from the Minister's words that it cannot be that next year beautiful initiatives will fall because the government has not arranged the money in time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u73	Can I rephrase it? Let us make our intention that the vision of hydrogen should give us an idea of how we can actually take steps in this regard. Maybe this will be just another way. I find it complicated to philosophize a vision I haven't finished yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u74	Otherwise Mrs Mulder will perhaps return to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u75	That's right!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u76	I too belong to the green hydrogen fan club. I hear the minister say back to the drawing board if we don't have enough money. That is why I suggested that we also look at the investment fund. The Minister does not want to anticipate this in substance. I understand. Can I then ask whether he would like to rule out the possibility of green hydrogen being included in the investment fund projects?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u77	Of course, Mr Van der Lee knows the answer to this, because he knows that it would be foolish if I were to be able to put forward projects for a strategy that is not yet ready and that the investment fund has not yet been worked out. If I were willing to rule things out, by mentioning all things in the world, you could deduce exactly what I would like. So no, of course I'm not going to rule anything out. Besides, I have no reason to. The aim of the fund is things that are at the crossroads of techniques and societal challenges and allow us to gain earning power. I can't judge whether this fits, but I certainly can't rule it out. So no, I'm not ruling that out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u78	Mr. Van der Lee? No. The Minister continues the reply.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u79	The Millions note says that we think of knowledge-intensive, innovative or infrastructure-related matters as the first direction of thought. That's where it could even satisfy all three. Mr. Chairman. A few questions have come up about the RES's. What's with the RES? The guiding principle is that co-governments take responsibility for precisely that area in which they, and only them, are democratically legitimized, namely space, division, spatial planning. The closer it gets to residents, the better. I was at one of those meetings, and then you see the RES parties questioning each other. They also question the other stakeholders. Rijkswaterstaat was strongly questioned there. There was a lot of enthusiasm and ambition. Two things were clearly stated: Rich, give support, but do not take over our task. We are also governments, we do this in principle, but make sure that we act as one government. Well, we do. The Empire is actively involved, but is not going to serve in regions. I'm confident we'll come a long way towards that 35 terawatt hour. The region has the same confidence, so I think that could work. If there is administrative support, that does not mean that there is necessarily support for the people who are involved. That question lived with D66, but also with the VVD. It is important that in energy projects, residents can somehow take a share, profit, participate in something. Money has been made available for an energy co-operative development facility to support those people with each other in the development phase. That National Programme RES also exchanges knowledge. They're also looking into what residents can find. Mr Sienot introduced the participatory value evaluation model. When I analyze it at home, I see a combination of citizen participation and digital. Well, I'd say vintage D66. He still asks me to support that in the region, but I would trust that there are enough D66s in all those RES'. At least I'm not gonna prescribe it to them. It's from Delft, so it's got to be good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u80	We're on the right track. We see a very important point. An alderman is put in front of a hall and an energy plan is presented and then the supporters and opponents who talk about it on such a night are talking about it. It's called a walk-in night and that's it. Busy parents who have to take their children to school and bring them to bed in the evening after dinner, and busy entrepreneurs who are working all day often don't have time for this. But we want to involve that silent majority. Can the Minister promise that he will do his best to make use of these municipalities, and I know that he should not prescribe that he give urgent advice on how to use them? It's not about such a tool, it's about digital consultation in general. People who are often not heard now, but who do have an opinion, should also be involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u81	I am more than willing to bring parties to an idea, but I just mentioned two old pillars of vintage D66: civic participation and digitisation. A third is that local democracies, close to the citizen, have their own mandate. I'm not gonna prescribe anything to anyone. I don't think Mr Sienot expects me to. In the discussions and contacts I will convey this suggestion, but I am on the wrong path if I am going to dictate to regional authorities how to consult citizens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u82	I think we'll find each other when we find out the Minister wants to hand it over. That's already a big profit. Maybe he'd like to make a commitment to inform the Chamber about that, too. Then I'm totally happy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u83	Mr President, I will find a natural moment to reconnect over the RES, and that will be part of it. I think I've had the block of execution with this. I'm going to biomass now. There are a lot of concerns about biomass. I'm telling you honestly, I don't think these concerns are bullshit. Let me also point out that the concept of biomass is highly justifiable. Something grows and then it's used for power generation. That is a cycle, and if that is a manageable cycle with a manageable cycle time, then that is justifiable. Even more beautiful is it if the original plantings were done exactly for this purpose and were not there at first. Then you actually built up the carbon first and then put it into the energy supply. So first save for your house and then buy, not mortgage! That form of biomass is defensible. We can all think that it's just fake to thunder primordial forests in a coal power plant. That's just fake! We can agree on that. Then there's just one little personal note. Maybe it happens to you too, but many of us obviously live in a neighborhood where someone somewhere, but you don't know where, has a cozy all-burner. When you go to bed, you think: well, the word "all-burner" is also very well chosen. So air quality is just a point. That's not bullshit, and I'd like to explain that. I also declare that I do not find biomass in any way an accounting trick. I am therefore speaking against Mr Kops, who is fleeing to the radically green side here, because biomass is not an accounting trick. You just have to pay a lot of attention. What doesn't help is shouting: away with biomass, all biomass is wrong. That's not helping. I sometimes hear people talk for a long time about the outcome of fundamental academic and scientific research into global warming, for example the IPCC. A great faith is given to that. I think that's right, because they're scientists. But those same scientists say: if you distance yourself from biomass, nuclear energy, CCS and you name it all, you won't make it at some point. I think that's also an outcome of science. So calling "way with biomass" doesn't help. I regret that this is being called, because there is a rather nice consensus among scientists that you need a certain amount of sensible biomass. We can pretend we're not, but then we won't make it. What I sometimes regret is that all biomass goes on a lot. There is woody biomass that splits into pellets and pruning wood. But a manure digester on the farmyard, the waste incineration plant, the digester of sewage sludge: that too is all biomass. So let's be careful and not throw all the biomass on a pile. At any rate, the focal point of the social debate, as I analyse it, about its sustainable content is often about the large-scale combustion of wood pellets. That's about a quarter of our grant. Three quarters is something else, but the sustainability of that quarter is of course a concern. In yesterday's questions and in the debate in society, all in all, four well-founded questions on biomass are addressed. These questions are justified, but at the same time the Climate Agreement has not been closed. A lot of parties have been involved and they have all faced these four concerns. We've agreed on that, too. The first concern, of course, is about the wood pellets and the large-scale combustion. Is it really sustainable? The second, which is separate from that, is: if it is already sustainable, do we not use much more than our fair share? Are we not getting everything to us so that there is nothing left for other countries? That is a second point raised in the Climate Agreement. The third point is air quality, which is not so much the case with large scale biomass, but with small scale biomass. A serious point that has also been addressed in the Climate Agreement. I'll be right back. In the case of other biomass, too, one has to ask the question: is that actually sustainable? I start with one, the durability of the wood pellets. If we're thundering primordial forests in a coal power station, we're in the wrong place. It is not difficult to reach that judgment. In the Netherlands we have sustainability requirements. They're very strict. I don't know any countries they have more stringent. We have the following reasoning. There's a timber industry. In the United States, entire areas have been set up for this, decades ago, because Americans built their houses of wood and used a lot of paper at that time. There is therefore an area used for wood production. There are residual streams. First, thinning: things that are not suitable for processing into wood. You used to just let it rot. It'll be CO, by the way. Secondly, the branches. You make wood out of a tree, but you don't make wood out of the branches. Thirdly, the remains of the wood-processing industry. That too was once just fucked away. Those three residual flows from the regular timber industry are what we call biomass. Now I also read interviews with people who live next door to such a production forest and who say: that's also nice with those stories about those branches and I know what, but I just see whole trees passing by on big trucks. Yeah, that makes sense, because it's a forest for the wood industry. That's where whole trees come along. They are made of boards, furniture or paper. So yes, there are whole trees coming along, but those trees don't end up in the Dutch wood pellets. That is not the case. We don't want that. That's what we're making demands on. We've set up a whole system to make sure that's true. We have prior control with all kinds of certificates. We have ex post control, in which you do verification with an independent verifier. Then the producer must demonstrate to the verifier where that wood comes from. Moreover, the verifier himself must have approved a verification protocol. He must be accredited. That's what our Accreditation Board does. It's a huge system to make sure we don't find primordial forests in our wood pellets. We therefore have very strict requirements for this sustainability in the Netherlands. This is not disputed by experts, not by experts I know or have spoken to. But that's not what we're here for. The second is that we have explicitly stated that we want a good balance between supply and demand. We do not want us now to commit installations that will soon discover that they have to emigrate to unsustainable wood because we have put them down. It is real to expect bottlenecks. The Plan Bureau for the Environment expects bottlenecks worldwide after 2030. So between now and 2030, we need to ask ourselves what our share is and when supply and demand are going to get in the way. We agreed on this in the Climate Agreement, very explicitly. Whole passages are devoted to it. We have said that we are creating a sustainability framework, that we are then going to look every year to see if supply and demand are getting in the way. We have also announced a Transition Vision of Heat, in 2021, in which we also look at whether we should not use biomass more sparingly. As long as the sustainability framework is not yet in place, we also have to look at these bottlenecks every year. If there are, we have to deal with it with restraint. At the moment, we are talking about 2019 and not 2030, there are no indications of a deficit and the growth of large-scale wood pellet plants is very limited. We had in the last round Diemen and in the new round sitting two requests. I am convinced that this does not lead to a bottleneck in supply and demand. That could happen. We have to keep an eye on that, because in the long term it is not an unrealistic concern. I want to make that quite clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u84	Biomass is a very convenient point for us. I've been digging into the numbers, too. I share that optimism that there is enough, actually not. There's only a certain amount of twigs, pruning waste and residual wood that you can throw in an oven. State forest management, Rijkswaterstaat and Natuurmonumenten together give 103 kilotons a year to burn. Utrecht and Purmerend do 500 kilotons together. That's just two biomass plants for heat. Then we are at 20% with the largest suppliers of local residual wood and pruning waste. I would like to ask the Minister how he will prevent us from having a biomass framework and subsidising all kinds of biomass plants that prove not to be sustainable at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u85	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u86	Because there's every reason to worry about the quantity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u87	I also see there are all kinds of reasons to worry about the amount. I'm not denying that. My proposal would be that we do not decide whether it is sufficient in a discussion between Mr Sienot and myself. Because then we're both gonna google what the quantities are. Yeah, I do that sometimes. You don't always do the right thing, by the way. I don't think we should. Perhaps we should look at each other and say: we, the Cabinet and the Chamber, therefore consider it important that, in view of this agreement in the Climate Agreement, we regularly check whether it is okay. Do the specialists, the people who have a look at it, still say that this is justified? This could not be the case in 2030. That's a point worldwide. So, somewhere before 2030, we need to know very well what we can do. I'd say we should check that regularly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u88	Look, Madam President, there's movement. I just got an extensive lecture from the Minister on how biomass works...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u89	I'm only halfway there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u90	Thanks for that. My question is that I actually think we can speed up a little bit, because I found out the following. We are dealing with biomass power plants which can be built undeserved and which are not subject to standards. We'll talk about power stations up to 15 megawatts. That is important, Madam President. I would like to explain it very briefly. Then what are we talking about? We are talking about small installations that heat swimming pools, but also very large ones that can easily heat 12,000 households up to 14.9 megawatts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u91	The question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u92	My question is, I had to explain this. I find it absolutely worrying that, at a time of nitrogen crisis, such plants are being built, without standards and without a licence. Does the Minister agree with us that we need to do something about this quickly?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u93	Or I have not been clear, because I have talked so far about something quite different from this point. Whether Mr Sienot is a psychic and knew that this was the point I was in need of. We're gonna stick to the last one. It's four very different questions. If we mix them up, we'll be lost. The debate on biomass is already complicated enough. My first point was about whether it is sustainable. This is mainly about large-scale wood pellets. The second point concerns the quantity of those large-scale wood pellets. The third point concerns air quality. That is what Mr Sienot is talking about. It is a very important point, but another point. That also has to do with another segment in the boiler. I would like to take that seriously. That too is an important point. I've positioned myself as an experienced expert. It's about soot and about NO. I'm sure you don't dare politically burn your fingers with fireplaces and barbecues.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u94	Before you continue... I have the impression that Mr Van Raan wants to ask a question on the previous point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u95	That is a pity, because fireplaces and barbecues, I would like to hear Mr Van Raan about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u96	Nice cliffhanger, chairman. I would like to return to points one and two, and in particular point one. The Minister and I had a discussion about science, about reports. Now there's been a publication in a leading magazine that says it's only a question of whether you can claim that biomass has zero CO emissions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u97	Your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u98	Actually, all these scientists indicate: make a pass there on the spot. The Minister takes that off as an opinion document. That's special. It's the most leading magazine in that field. So we approached the editor-in-chief of that magazine, that international magazine, and said: our minister says it's an opinion piece; we think it's a scientific story, but maybe we're wrong and you've written an opinion piece. What does the editor write? It's a great treatise. I'll give it to the minister later. I won't tire you of that, Mr. President. It'll take too long. But he does mention certified research that says: make a pass on the spot and see if it is not wrong to say that biomass has zero CO emissions. The Minister takes that off as some sort of piece of opinion. I wish he'd distance himself from that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u99	I think it's up to the author to decide for himself what his piece is. If he doesn't think it's an opinion piece, then he doesn't. I would like to believe Mr Van Raan. If the term opinion piece is inappropriate, I'm withdrawing it now. I've looked a little over that. I just want to believe that. The point here is this. There is no doubt that there is also a lot to be said for the claim that all kinds of biomass use are extremely unwise. I recognize that. All I'm saying is that we're trying to do that in a way that's justified. I am not saying that we have found a way that does not create any carbon debt at all. If you dropped the branches we use as residual wood in the forest, they would take longer to be converted into CO than if you used them in a biomass plant. So yes, there is also an effect: short-cyclical, not nearly 80 years, none of them. But I think that, if we do it that way, that's justified. That's my judgment. I do not deny at all that there are very irresponsible ways of dealing with biomass. We can make it up together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u100	I am pleased that the Minister is prepared to take back that qualification as an opinion document. Again, I'll send him that correspondence. I am also pleased that the Minister says that there are indeed irresponsible ways of biomass. I would like to make one final point. Does the Minister recognise that leaving wood, waste wood and twigs is very important for biodiversity? Removing a forest from residual wood is in fact unwise in relation to biodiversity. Does the Minister agree with me that this component should also play?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u101	I don't know. All I know is that you should not consider production forests, which are built for production wood, for homes, housing, furniture and paper, as natural forests where you talk about biodiversity. This is a production forest. We don't use the primary trees. I believe you can make ten times as much money by converting them into furniture. But we use the rest of it. Then biodiversity is not a goal. I also think that combating global warming is a very good thing. That's what biomass is for. The third issue in the field of biomass is air quality. I have already mentioned something that you all dare not burn your political hands on: the fireplaces and the barbecues. You wouldn't dare. The second worst were small installations, below 0.5 megawatts. Those were the pellet stoves and the biomass boilers. I always suspect the mysterious stoker near me possessing a pellet stove or maybe an all-torch. But we don't do that anymore. I don't know if that was wise in retrospect. At least the insights now are that that is no longer wise. They will no longer be subsidised from 2020. We've lost that category. That's from below. But then I'm gonna go see the biggest guys, and then I'm gonna talk about air quality. There is an incredibly advanced air purification in coal-fired power stations, which is particularly difficult to improve. We have a category of up to 15 megawatts underneath. For example, you are talking about greenhouse horticulture or district heating. That's just what emission requirements are for. There are filters for this, of which there are two: electrostatic filters, whereby the particles are attracted electrostatically, and cloth filters, which stop the particles as a sort of sieve. So those filters are in there. There is also a catalyst in it sometimes, against No. There are, therefore, emissions requirements and air treatment, but the Climate Agreement also states that we have committed ourselves to examining emissions requirements. This means that the Minister for the Environment and Housing will no longer review the emission requirements, perhaps in her other capacity. That is not because she wants to, or because I want to, but because we agreed to this in the Climate Agreement. The concern on this subject has therefore been recognised: we need to do something about it and that is what is going to happen. This concerns the pellets tokers. There is a category below, between 0.5 and 5 megawatts These are swimming pools and block heating. They rarely run on pellets, but mainly on pruning wood, just Dutch pruning wood. There are emission requirements for this, but there is often no flue gas cleaning, so emission requirements are at a mild level. We also said in the Climate Agreement that we need to tighten up standards. Besides, we said we want a clean air deal. This means that the Climate Agreement recognises that this can be a problem and that we may need to tighten it up. The first is therefore the emission requirements, especially under the 5 megawatts, and the Clean Air Agreement. But you could also think of other things. I'm just philosophizing, but in the past there have been environmental permits for certain installations. Mr Sienot just mentioned this, so I'm going to go into it. These environmental permits are no longer available. With an environmental permit, a local government can regulate where something is placed. So if you would choose to be stricter against one exhaust pipe than the other, you could say to the other one that it is less appropriate in some areas than in others. Local authorities then have an influence on this, and that is not the case now. Furthermore, we have of course removed those pellet stoves and those biomass boilers from the subsidy. I would like to ask Mr Van Raan a question on the emission of biomass plants in respect of nitrogen. When we talk about biomass in coal-fired power stations, it has little effect. It's not in there either. We can see that, because when we look at the figures on nitrogen emissions, so we do not have the deposition, but emissions, we see that the whole energy sector, all in all, so all power stations, electricity and heat generation, is 0.3% of emissions in the field of nitrogen. So that's not much. So it's not a major nitrogen problem. The Remkes committee, which says some ugly things about biomass, also says that it does not have any substantial impact on nitrogen. Then there's a fourth question. We have also looked at this in the Climate Agreement. There is a sustainability framework for all woody biomass. There is no sustainability framework for all the other biomass. So in the beginning I focused on that 25%, then comes pruning wood. But that is woody biomass. For other forms, for example gft, manure, sludge and so on, there is no sustainability framework. There will be. That means that, as far as I am concerned, the way to deal with this is by recognizing that there are serious questions here. And no, the worries are not nonsense; we have to do justice to them. The Climate Agreement lays down how we will do this on all four points. So much for biomass, as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u102	That raises another question for Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u103	This is perhaps a little symptomatic, even for the doubts I have about the implementation of the energy agreement...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u104	Energy agreement or climate agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u105	The climate agreement, I'm sorry. With biomass, it might be wise to make a pass on a number of parts. Today, at Winschoten, a biomass plant is closed for a swimming pool, because the emissions there are much higher than was supposed to be. That means that with the predictions of what you can generate, whether it's biomass or other parts of the Climate Agreement, you're going to have setbacks along the way. This gives us the impression that we have a minister here who is actually a football coach who says: "No, I'm going to win the Champions League. I have eleven fantastic players in the field. I don't have anyone on the back seat. You don't have to, because I have 11 good players. I don't need a caretaker because we're not gonna get any injuries. And I don't have a budget to go and buy new players if it's disappointing in the winter stop." Isn't the Minister's approach too fragile when it comes to the climate agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u106	Of all the football examples, all I get is messed up. I can't make sense of that. We have all recognised here in the Climate Agreement that biomass is a necessary component. We have all recognised four different concerns; I have just pulled them apart here. We have recorded something with all the parties at the table, all of whom find different things about it. In all honesty, the Climate Agreement is less than six months old. If I am going to break this climate agreement with all these sensible agreements, which I support and which recognise all these problems, I am really insane. I'm not going to. These are very sensible agreements and we are going to keep them. And yes, that will mean that we will soon have a clean air agreement, that we may be tightening demands. That can be all, that's all good and we're working hard on that. That is part of this agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u107	I'm not gonna tell the minister to pull players out of the field either. I'm saying he's got to take care of backup players and budget, so if things don't work out, maybe you can change a player after all. Take the heat grids, for example. Imagine if the market didn't pick it up. For example, you must have the network companies on the reserve bank, which will then take you into the field to meet the objectives. Shouldn't there be a plan B for biomass? Should you not make a social cost-benefit analysis or replace some of the biomass with an additional increase in energy savings?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u108	But calculations have been made. Under the Climate Agreement, calculations are made by the Planbureau voor de Leefenvironment. We've linked to that the strictest... We're one of the toughest in the world. We have also linked this to the fact that we had concerns on all four points, which we all addressed in the Climate Agreement with a result, a task and a date. It's a very orderly way to do this. I think that a lot of countries can do something about that, given the investigations that Mr Van Raan is following. We're doing this neatly. The insights haven't changed in the past six months. I see no reason to say that I am dealing with this climate agreement differently, precisely because these are concerns. I see in Mr Moorlag's eyes that it is his concern too. It's mine, too. That is exactly why we are going to implement this climate agreement: because we are doing things about these concerns. I can always bring home the football terms a little harder.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u109	Thank you to the Minister for naming the nitrogen point of the plants in the reply. Thank you for that. Would the Minister be prepared to draw up a list of decisions already taken on plants which have not yet been completed or yet to be built and which may be affected by the problem of nitrogen? The emissions may be low. But as the Minister knows, it's not about absolute numbers. It's about what comes next. The point is that the borders there have been crossed and that they may still have to be built. Of course, decisions have been taken for plants which have not yet been built due to the problem of nitrogen. Can we get an inventory of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u110	No, I can't. You can ask from every portfolio of me and my colleagues: what will happen if we have nitrogen and so on and so forth? But you can't say that, because a, we're going to do something about nitrogen, and b, it's also a local distribution issue. So I'm not gonna make a list like that, even because I can't make it. But if I were to make this list, we would have to make 30 more of those lists, because for every sector you can ask this question. The commitment is to solve the nitrogen problem and not to ensure the transition...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u111	Your follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u112	Systemically, "because it's a lot of work" is an appallingly bad answer. Decisions have been taken for power stations. They haven't been built yet. That's knowledge the Minister has. All I ask is: is the Minister prepared to draw up a list of decisions for biomass plants with by-burn or fully biomass-fired plants, to see what that means for nitrogen? The answer given by the Secretary of State is a shocking simplicity, that is, because we have other lists. Yes, toodle-oo!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u113	No, because I can't predict from here, not even with a list, which power stations will eventually have local nitrogen space available and which ones won't. New policy initiatives are regularly emerging. It is also a regional consideration. It's got 166 areas to do with it. No, that's something I just can't do. Mr. Chairman. We still have a number of issues that I have to deal with. The first is energy saving under the Environmental Management Act. It started in 1998. Margreeth de Boer, do you remember, Lubbers I cabinet? Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. After that, in 2013, there were lists. That was the situation. At that time, the Energy Agreement proposed by the parties themselves to link an information obligation to that, even because this came out as a very effective measure. If you ultimately do not know how to implement that measure, then you have to take another measure that is much more expensive. So the parties themselves have said: let us link this with an information obligation. Now you can ask four questions about that, which I find reasonable. The first is: does not the administrative burden of such a duty go a little too far? I cannot judge that for every SME, but I have included, for example, the garage industry. In the garage industry, that leads to the list I have here. This is the checklist for the garage company. I went to my garage to see if I was able to fill this out. I haven't been able to judge everything, but I did come up with an end. I don't think the complexity is in this. You can fill that out via the digital counter at RVO. As soon as you report the industry, you'll find out which list applies to you. Then you can check it out. But that's just the disclosure obligation. So you've indicated what needs to be done, what you've done versus what the measures are. But then there's the next question. Then that garage filled that out, and then there's a couple of boxes he needs to do something about. How else? For example, one of them is an automatic closing door. So how do you go on? The Energy Agreement has agreed on this, because we cannot assume that every SME who is very busy repairing cars is also very good at picking out automatic garage doors. That's another industry with other interests. They're busy making their money. That list comes from the government, but that's not their biggest interest. They have other things to do. It was agreed in the Climate Agreement that someone cares about that. Those are the trade associations. They have agreed to discuss this with their members. This case comes from the BOVAG. I congratulate the BOVAG on this brochure, because I think it is very clear. So the BOVAG does that work. SME-Netherlands is the contact point for the branches. It therefore plays a central role in the provision of information. He'll make sure that goes the handiest way. A certain subsidy has also been paid to SMEs in the Netherlands to do so. A communication campaign has been set up for this, which is seen as a success by the industries. That campaign has also been extended. So the point of contact for an SME is his industry. In this case it is the BOVAG, with compliments for the material. That's where the backup is. We don't have a state office for that. In all honesty, it is also a bit my conviction that we cannot solve everything with state offices. The government does not know very much about automatically folding garage doors; an industry association is in a better position to do so. Then you can ask the question: okay, but then that automatically closing door to save energy will have to come. It costs money, and it could just be that you don't have it lying there. It could just be that you're getting it from the bank. In general, we are talking about investments in which two things help. The first is that the interest rate is lower than it has been in decades. The cost of capital is therefore limited. The second is that this is an investment that you earn back in five years. In other words, the internal rate of return is 20%. That's pretty good. The average SME should enjoy this. For your particular sector, this can be earned back in five years; the return is 20%. Despite this beautiful story on my part, it may be that that garage just doesn't belong to it, doesn't have any resources for it. In this case, the company can make agreements with the municipality on measures and be delayed. There is a deadline for this, but reasonableness and fairness is the starting point. Because it will not be the case that companies go bankrupt as a result of buying a self-capping garage door. This must not lead to bankruptcy or payment problems. The parties know that, too. That too is part of the campaign and is reasonable. We cannot look in the wallet with every SME at any time. The last question, which I also consider important and which we discussed twice before in the debate, is the root-of-stick question. I see two calls. One is: let us please be supportive, there can be even more support, let us root. The other one is: it's time for the stick. That support must at least be there. In any case, the means to support these associations must be available. But if I were to say here in general that it is now time for the stick to everyone, I would not find that in all honesty an appropriate appeal. Sure, there are factions who have been spoken to three times; they can do so, and those are the evil ones. This includes a different approach than, I believe, the majority of SMEs that do not yet meet this requirement, simply do not understand it, do not understand the seriousness of it and do not deal with the Environmental Management Act all day long. In all honesty, I think the helping position there works better. I do not speak for these municipalities, but I will talk to them about how support enforcement can be developed. "Supporting enforcement" would be my term. This may mean that in some cases there is a need for strict action, but I would like to do the supporting rather than enforcement. That's what I'm saying, but in the end it's a regional responsibility.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u114	With that last statement, that support is more important, I'm very content. I have two questions for the Minister. I am asking it explicitly, because it was not in the letter we received in September. Do I understand that if SMEs or entrepreneurs indicate that they are unable to take this measure financially, they are entitled to delay? That's question one. The second question is: what additional measures is the Minister prepared to take to ensure that these funds are available to such SMEs? The minister just said macro very nicely that the costs of capital and financing are very low. Macro speaking, that's true, but for entrepreneurs who want to borrow €30,000 from the bank for a van, it's worth €40,000, because then he can also drive electric. So if the minister says he's going to those banks to settle that, I think we're gonna hit three flies with one stone.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u115	On the first question, I can say that reasonableness and fairness are the starting point. With that reasonableness and fairness, we always get very far in the Netherlands. If I drop the words'supporting enforcement' and'reasonability and fairness', the Netherlands, municipalities and enforcement agencies really know what that means. But we all see that if over the past 25 years this has led a bit of a soul-blowing existence and we are now making a huge catch-up, we also have some field work to do. That's the first thing. We have to deal with those who keep the economy going generously, accommodatingly, fairly and fairly. Then there is the second question. I believe that in the history of EZK's budget treatment over the last 30 years, a perfectly understandable and perfectly reasonable appeal has always been made to the Empire, to the Chamber, to civil society parties or to a combination of them, to ensure that more can be borrowed by SMEs. But I don't specifically have an extra resource in the inner pocket, so I can say that we have a specific instrument for this purpose. In fact, in the past there has been a rather considerable Christmas tree that I have experienced from EZ-instrumentarium. I think it's been a while, but you could really speak of a Christmas tree. I have seen this before, but the liberal parties in Parliament in particular said that the Christmas tree could be cleaned up. That does not mean that I have a game for this particular purpose to help these entrepreneurs with this. But reasonableness and fairness and an internal return of 20% must put an end to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u116	I am pleased that the Minister has promised and also admits that it is possible for entrepreneurs to ask for a delay when they are not able to do so financially. The Chamber has already tabled an amendment on financial support for this specific component for small and medium-sized enterprises. In my view, we are going to discuss this in the second term, but perhaps it would be good if the Minister and, of course, the Secretary of State were to keep their finger on the pulse when it comes to financing specific measures of this kind. Because macro-economically it is true that this capital market is interesting, but if banks do not even want to provide funding for measures that are not only sustainable, but are also recouped within five years... I'd say as a bank, let's do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u117	Me too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u118	But maybe it's okay if the Minister keeps his finger on this file.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u119	I believe that the issue of financing for SMEs has the attention of EZK anyway. The Secretary of State has also turned that into her fight, and rightly so. There are also concerns about the Heat Act. No. I see Mr Van der Lee, who might want to comment on the question about the stick.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u120	Well, I will come back to that in the second term, but I had also made another suggestion, which also appeals to Mr Sienot. It was about the sustainable generation by companies, also part of the Climate Agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u121	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u122	Will you come back to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u123	Well, maybe here's the thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u124	Then can I finish it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u125	Your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u126	My question is: how will that be worked out and what is going to apply for a payback period? Because five years is a very short time to earn back sustainable generation. Hence the suggestion: look at seven years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u127	From a climate perspective, it is, of course, attractive to use longer and longer payback times, because then you force parties to do things that are important for national policies at their expense. I get that. It is true that the return for SMEs is 20% at five years. At seven years it's only 14%, and so it goes on and on. So we also need to think about what we can ask of parties. The Climate Agreement contains a tightening up of precisely this legislation, i.e. a list and an obligation to provide information. There is also very explicit what it says. There's five, not seven. I agree with Mr Van der Lee that there will be a larger domain of things as you stretch it further, but then it will be more difficult to sell. That is why I say again: I have a great interest in sticking to the climate agreement, because otherwise parties can say 'if you start giving up measures, we will have a few'. I don't want to. We have reached a climate agreement, and the word 'agreement' also means to me that there are all things in it that I would have liked to have done differently. There are also things that I might think are bullshit, and of other things I would have wanted more, or less. That's all true. But there's an agreement now. The deal is we're gonna broaden it to CO-reducing measures. There will therefore be more measures on that list. But I didn't see any sign that we're going to seven years. I see Mr Van der Lee's intentions, but I have an agreement and I have to deal with them very carefully, because it took me a year and a half.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u128	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u129	The Minister has made an agreement, not me. As a Member of Parliament, I am the government's controller. I would like to know what would be possible for that effect if, for example, you assumed a seven-year payback period. That's just information. It may well be information which the parties involved in that agreement also find interesting and which also allows for a further discussion. So my appeal to the Minister is: would he like to see, in consultation with the parties, what a seven-year payback period could be, without having to break the agreement?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u130	On the one hand, I am sympathetic to this, because a question can always be asked. On the other hand, we must also see that the Empire is not an investigative agency. A question is therefore only relevant in the light of policy choices that need to be made. I doubt a little: I don't think it makes any sense, but I think it is sympathetic. I'll get back to you in second term. Let me jigsaw on this. I get the question. I'll get back to you. I'm just marking that I'm actually gonna do that. I'm on the Heat Act. The current Heat Act is, you can say, a fantastic compromise: everyone is dissatisfied with the Heat Act. Everyone, because the consumer thinks that it pays too much, the municipality thinks that it does not have enough control and the heat companies say that the business case is not going to live. So they're all disgruntled. But that's not sustainable. This isn't gonna win the game. There's going to be a Heat Act 2.0. Let me be clear: the linking of heat prices to the gas price simply does not make any sense in the long run. We're going to the real cost. The Chamber has also requested an impact study. That was, if I'm mistaken, the motion Sienot. This study will be completed by the end of this year and the Chamber will be informed. So there will be another basis for the tariffing. In the interim, we are bound by a law, because a law is a law; we have no choice. But how bad is that? I'm gonna try to take a bit of a thrilling stance anyway. The public debate all the time gives the impression that the heat grid users are worse off than gas consumers because of this link. The reasoning goes as follows: these people no longer use gas, but they are attacked on the basis of a higher gas price. How unfair is that? My point is: the opposite is the case. My heat rates are linked to the gas price. That gas price is going up. Because my heat shouldn't be more expensive than the alternative, it goes up equally. My heat costs are getting exactly as much higher as the costs for my neighbor burning on gas. On the other hand, my electricity prices are falling. If I'm an average user, the electricity prices will fall and the return on the energy bill will fall just as quickly. So if the heat grid is going to make full use of its tariff space, if it is going to charge as much as possible, then they are just as bad off, but actually just as good off, because for an average user it will fall €100. They're as good as they are. But, of course, it is not always the case that the heat grids increase the tariffs equally. Sometimes they don't have to. I even called on them not to. I will come back to what they say in a moment. We have sent a letter and they have confirmed that acceptance plays a role and that prices should be reasonable. They're gonna look at that before 2020. The ACM is still under discussion, so we don't know exactly what comes out of it yet. Mr Moorlag described the project as "failed," but I think he was talking about 2019; I am talking about 2020. So if the heat grids don't compete with the gas price, some of them certainly won't, so my estimation based on what I hear is going to benefit them. The heat grid user is therefore no worse off because of this link. He is at most the same, by reducing the tax on his energy bill, but he may also be better off with the gas user. It remains, I say to Mr Sienot, who looks very unhappy, that it feels weird. The gas price increase was supposed to take you off the gas, but you're already off the gas. On the contrary: yes, but the electricity price reduction was also meant to get someone to a heat pump, and neither does this person. It therefore has an increase which does not apply to it, but it also has a reduction which does not apply to it. All in all, he is at most just as finished and probably in some cases better off than his brother whose central heating works on gas. That doesn't mean that this is an ideal system. No, I'm not saying that. It's gonna go away, it's gonna be different, but I'm not saying we have a crisis situation in between. We're not hurting anyone. And it has to be different, that's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u131	A question from Mr Sienot. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u132	What the Minister is saying here, I would like to make a slight adjustment. First of all, on the climate agreement. It says that 800,000 people are about to switch to a heat grid. This is indeed intended as an alternative to gas, in addition to the heat pump, for all those people who do not have a suitable home to prepare for a heat pump. So it is meant as a way of getting rid of the gas.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u133	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u134	Those people are now being punished at a higher price if they're already off the gas, because it's not... The Secretary of State's modeling world isn't going anywhere. Various studies have shown that users of heat networks simply pay more, some €200 per year more. They're paying more already. I'm getting to the point. It is the monopolists who decide and the consumers who are allowed to pay. That's why we wanted a heat bill. The heat bill is still two years away. In the meantime, this minister is simply letting consumers pay, and those monopolists can continue to determine. The state facilitates that by linking it to gas. Is the Minister really going to let this happen? Does he say "fuck" once, and that's it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u135	No. You say the Minister with his models. That's a bit of Bush Jr.'s fuzzylogic argument in a debate; he's coming to an end with it. But we just have the situation here where there's a link. The user of a heat grid does not get duped from someone with a central heating boiler. Furthermore, everything Mr Sienot says is true. It's supposed to take people off the gas. That is true, but that does not make it a case that now leads to a problem in the short term. It is just that, in the long term, we would prefer to see this as soon as possible; I will say something about that, because Mrs Mulder has strong ideas about this matter to a different level. But it's not like people are being disadvantaged right now. That's not true. And I can't lift the law either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u136	I'm sorry, but they're disadvantaged. That's what I've just reported. ACM says that in the last year most of these companies have a more than average return. Those are the monopolists that need to be controlled by the ACM. The ACM says: a more than reasonable return. That's what we're talking about. Those people are already hurt. That is why the Minister once said 'fai' with a letter. My question to the Minister is as follows. Would you please talk to those heat companies for all these people who pay too high a heat bill, to say: boys, fix it if you can, keep it stable, but don't go along with the increase in gas prices; please don't use all your space, because your heat bill is worth something to us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u137	Wait a minute. Now the air clears up and I understand Mr. Sienot. That's another point. That's not about the clutch. This is about the fact that the rates would be more than reasonable. That's what the ACM oversees. If it turns out that there are heat companies that have the intention of a more than reasonable rate, I am now saying that I am in contact with these parties. That is another point. That doesn't mean I have to set aside a law. That just means that I have to have a reasonable conversation with parties that indicate this, but perhaps do so. I give this to Mr Sienot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u138	Thank you. You will continue with the answer. I think you're headed for the last block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u139	Yes. Well, one more thing about timing. I say as soon as possible. The team working on the law feels especially the breath of Mrs. Mulder in the neck. There will be another policy letter in the short term. At the beginning of 2020, the internet consultation. The sooner the better. The Council of State is still in the middle, and then the legal process. I don't see it flying very hard myself before the intended publication of 1-122, but if I can, I'm a fan of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u140	Thank you. Mrs. Van Brenk, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u141	I have received some answers in writing and I am not very happy about that. So I'm gonna try one more time, hoping I can go home a little more cheerful later. I also hope that the Minister has that intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u142	I'm gonna try for Mrs. Van Brenk. Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u143	I hope so very much, yes. I had asked the Minister to consider the fact that there are people who use more energy because they are home because they are not very mobile. I see here, in the answers, that there is actually no thought at all. It is good that there are indeed no unnecessary discounts, but can the Minister mean something to a group of people who consume significantly more energy because they are older, move less and are more crooked? Are there opportunities for that and does this Minister see opportunities for that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u144	Not specifically, but generically. For someone with average consumption, taxes on the energy bill are reduced by €100. These are not people with an average use profile. People who are at home all day use more electricity but may use even more gas. So the relationship could be different. Thus, the amount for specific groups of many users could be different. It's different for everyone. It's all individual cases. Very large groups benefit from this reduction in taxes, but not everyone is the same. That's true.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u145	I would like to point out the following. On page 13, the Minister passed it on with the Climate Agreement. Don't you see the fact that older people are getting hit extra by that? I'm gonna ask you one more time. Are there any possibilities to see if specific groups can be more relaxed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u146	I didn't see any opportunities for that. If you make the one where you want more expensive and the other where you want cheaper, then of course there is a group that may use more than proportionally from where you want to get rid of it, while they can't get rid of it themselves. Those people benefit less from a tax cut. That's a fact that I can't change.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u147	Then I hope that the Minister can at least think along with me on another point. That's the point where I feel like I'm getting a floppy-in-the-reed answer. We have asked before about the age limit of 75. If people want to change and invest in their homes, then if they want a loan, there is a limit of 75 years. I've asked if that age limit can be removed. Then it's said I need to be with another minister. But then I would like to hear from this Minister whether he also thinks that an age limit is actually reprehensible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u148	I am not going to speak for other rulers. The cabinet speaks with one voice, but that is not mine in this case. I'm just trying to understand that. I am not in all policy areas, nor am I able to speak for other rulers. It is a pity that I cannot help Mrs Van Brenn with her two points.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u149	I have a third point, even though I have a hard head in it. I don't know if I'm going home happy, but maybe it could just be surprising. I also asked if there was any possibility of doubling debts. I know that debt and poverty are with the Secretary of State for Social Affairs. But if it is about extra doubling if it is not paid, it might be on this minister's line, because he can talk to the energy companies. Of course, payment must be made, but the question is whether people with payment problems will not immediately face doubles and fines. Would the Minister see it on his way to discuss this with the energy companies, namely whether they can be considered as being reluctant to impose fines?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u150	If it's a question about the energy companies, then I'm inclined to see what the question is first. I would like the question to be articulated in one way or another. Then perhaps we can study it on an official basis and see if it is at all in this area. I'm not going to answer any questions about policy areas that I don't know about and that I don't care about. I'm going to specifically see if this is a question that lies in the domain. I would like to ask Mrs Van Brenk to write it more specifically, because then I will come back to it in the second term and I can say whether I find it too admissible to ask within the EZK budget. So Mrs Van Brenk has to help me with that. It is a bit the same as Mr Van der Lee's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u151	A question from Mrs Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u152	It's good that the Minister is going to make the rush that is really necessary for the Heat Act. Everyone in this room thinks that we should solve these problems as soon as possible. Meanwhile, the Minister talks with the parties about tariffs. I asked whether it would be possible for them to be frozen or whether the ACM might be able to impose additional sanctions. I would also like to hear an answer from the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u153	Yeah, I'm gonna talk to them. I'm not gonna do the ACM's work again. I'm not gonna do anything I'm not allowed to do under the law. Nor am I going to forbid them from doing things that they are allowed to do under the law or the supervisor. I go into conversation where I see that the reasonable return is exceeded and the pricing leads to a more than reasonable return. That's what I'm gonna do, and I'll let you know. Mr. Chairman. We also had the tax manoeuvre on the energy bill. Mrs Beckerman has informed me that she would have wanted more. All groups benefit from this. Some of the reserves she had are also correct. We are not yet below the level of 2018 in terms of taxes on the average energy bill; she is absolutely right about that. It is a long-term effect that is below the level of 2019 until 2030. That sketches a very different basic path. It's a very firm move. This is needed under the Climate Agreement. In the end, the Climate Agreement also has a kind of positive purchasing power effect after 2020. You can always debate it if that's enough. I think that is an expression of the concept of 'feasible and affordable'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u154	That's a nice step indeed. I think there's been a lot of political pressure for that. But the Minister is right: people are still paying more than in 2018. For some people, that's just too much. However, I would like to answer my question as to whether the Prime Minister considers it unfair that 650,000 people live in energy poverty. Sometimes they have to choose between cooking or cooking. In such a rich country as the Netherlands, the minister himself said: it is the second richest country.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u155	I do not know a good definition of energy poverty, as I do not know a definition of food poverty, hire poverty or holiday poverty. There are people with very little money. We do not see the energy bill as a means of purchasing power policy or income policy or income repair. The moment of almost becoming an institution for purchasing power policy is the August decision-making. There is primarily the purchasing power weighting. This here is a reduction in the energy tax that sets out a very different basic path for these people for the next ten years. I absolutely do not want to say that this solves all the problems for everyone. I'm really not saying that. What I am saying is that this is part of the Climate Agreement that is feasible and affordable. Yeah, there are all kinds of people with little money. Yes, there are many ways in which purchasing power policy is needed. And yes, every cabinet does that year by year in the August decision-making process.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u156	But the fact is that energy poverty is increasing. People really have a problem. They really can't raise their stove. We can refer to other ministries and we can say that we don't care very much, but the interesting thing is that we can take climate action but we can't take it that way, so that this group is making progress. So you hit multiple flies with one stone. You reach the climate targets and you make sure that people can pay their energy bills. This can be done, for example, by making social housing more sustainable. That's number one at Urgenda. Then why don't we?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u157	Those are all questions of each other. We have chosen here a feasible and affordable measure that will improve purchasing power for all groups after 2020 as a result of the Climate Agreement, which is the most proportionate for the low-income groups. I'm not saying it's blissful for everyone. What energy poverty is, I don't know, but there is poverty. It exists. There are people with very little money. After 2020, government policy leads to an increase in purchasing power at group level for all groups. But individual cases would still... I can't look in everyone's wallet. I understand that Mrs Beckerman would have wanted more, but the purchasing power figures presented in the Millions note reflect an increase in purchasing power for all income groups.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u158	The Minister is shielding with statistics. Statistics are beautiful, of course. An average human has one chest and one testicle. But that's not true either. That's the problem with these people. It's not true. They do have a problem with the rising energy bill. Then we can reduce it this year, but that does not mean that it is not already much higher than in recent years. I really don't understand why we wouldn't, if you could make so much profit. Why, for example, should we not open up the social rent scheme again? The greenest cabinet ever! You were so proud of it. You knocked on your chest. Why wouldn't you reopen that arrangement?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u159	I never claimed the term "greenest cabinet." All the manoeuvres included in the energy bill, there's a purchasing power picture. It's not like there's a purchasing power image that ruins the energy bill. No, everything taken is a purchasing power effect. I take note that Mrs Beckerman would have done this differently if she had been in the cabinet. This is indeed a big step. There's no denying that, I guess. But I don't think Mrs Beckerman would have done that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u160	I think it would be wise for you to continue with the answer. According to my records, you're now heading towards the block of gas extraction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u161	Yeah, gas extraction. At the first debate on this at the end of 2017 or was it perhaps before? I have said that the earthquake issue is at the top of my list of priorities. That was a rough time with the Climate Agreement, but that was never the number one. Earthquakes have been at the top of the list all along. I think this should stay that way for a while. Every time I'm in Groningen, I talk to the people why it's going on. Sometimes they're angry or sad. More and more often, they are relieved, but they always say: it has taken far too long. This is not only often a painful experience, but it is also a very good reason to continue. What is most repulsive in this is the enormously long policy path. I'll sit there at a kitchen table. The problems are clear, but it is an extraordinary task to come from the problems that lie on the kitchen table to legislation and rules, with administrators in the region who do not always agree, under constant encouragement from the Second Chamber, but also to the practice of the implementation organizations and to the workplace where you have to tell all those people what the intention is, to go back to the drawing table to come up with a solution that works, with clarity about how and what. That's harder on one sub-file than on the other. I think everyone understands that I can't fix everything that has arisen and gone wrong in 55 years. It should be possible to do more than it has done in the last 55 years. It's also clear we're not here yet. For example, there are 26,000 houses on the reinforcement list. No, we didn't just get through that. I think it is also important not to give the impression here all the time, and also to tell Groningers, that nothing happens. Where are we? That's what Mrs. Beckerman asked. In the field of the end of gas extraction, I am still the most satisfied. I thought there was more in the barrel than the basic path, which was quite a tough basic path, but I got further than I wrote on the paper in March 2018. There is now a well-functioning organisation with over 300 people for the settlement of damages. At the same time, we must see that there has been a whole new challenge, because the number of incoming damages is three or four times higher than when it started. So things are going well, but there is a new challenge. The change in the reinforcements approach is definitely advised by SodM and the Mining Council: it has to be different, Mr Wiebes was the heaviest task of everything. There's really the most to do. I stand up for the 800 people who are now working in Groningen on all these floors to implement all these policies. All these people know they're not ready yet, but I've seen a lot of these people work with it for the past two years. I'm gonna have to back them up for what happened. Take the gas extraction. We've done 2 billion cubs less than the basic path in the last gas year. In the next year, it will be less than 6 billion less than the baseline path. The crane closes early. The people who are working on it will see for themselves that this has worked well. The organization for damage started with 40 people. That's 320 now. The ambition for 2019 was 16,000 damages. There are now 21,000. $125 million has been paid out. That's where the builder's variant was developed. They've done a reservoir control over there. I said this once in the Chamber before that, of course, with the TCMG: I really want us to go to 400 recordings every week. That was the time when the number of incoming damages was 150 a week. I wanted to go to 400 shots a week and then reviews. We are now over 500, but we have much more influx, so I am now formulating a new ambition: we really need to tap the 600 this year. And maybe we should go up to 800 or maybe even... I've heard the TCMG say once.... to 900 a week. So that is double the ambition I expressed this year. I want to express that ambition here, because I think it is necessary. Mr Moorlag said that confidence in the settlement of damages is gone. It could be the opposite. People see that here is an organization at work that ensures that your damage is recorded, assessed and paid out. And these people think, "Well, now maybe I'm starting to trust it." And those people are, of course, absolutely right. 'Cause what's going on with a damage settlement that doesn't get people to report damage because they don't think they're gonna get any of it? Basically, we have a good development. People get confidence in it, flow in and report their damage. They're entitled to that. That's good. But it does create a new problem, but that's my problem. I am speaking now: we have made the 500 more than we thought, more than the ambition was, but it has to go even further. That's the new job. In strengthening, we have spread a lot of intentions and policies. It began with the firm desire of the cabinet, the region and this Chamber to have a single implementation organisation. We had two. That got me ugly, because at some point I had appointments with NAM-CVW and they turned out not to have been executed. I was responsible for that, but it had to do with the situation in which there were two implementing organisations, one of which was private and therefore I couldn't get in. We have set out the ambition to make it a single implementation organisation. That's what these people are doing. We have once again thought here "would all work out," but employees of the CVW, in private service, are now employed by the NCG, i.e. by the government. Who'd have thought? A whole new organisational structure, a new working method, a new MT. The organization is shaking and is now working on this new way of working. I have spoken lightly about data management. We have all the numbers now; we know it now. We know how long it took to bring the numbers together, with the same definition, with one dashboard. The dashboard is internally ready, but it has to be online for everyone. It's not finished yet. It is undoubtedly one of the most complex reorganisations in the public domain of the moment: public, private, all mixed up. The method, the organogram, the people, it's extraordinary. Those are all those people doing. There's one thing I'm very disappointed about. It's about something I said myself. I said once: I want to go to a level of 1,000 withdrawals a quarter in the first half of the year. That may be possible in the fourth quarter, but it has not been done before. That's my biggest disappointment. People say, "Where were you when Kennedy was killed?" I remember where I was when I heard that this didn't work out and that the numbers were far behind. There's a total of 800 men out there. What they've managed is to deliver 500 houses. Totally there are 1,000 houses, of which 500 in this year. What will also work, according to the latest estimate, is that all houses with an increased risk are all included at the end of this year. Are we there? No. Are these the only people who've done anything? No. Let me give you an example. Those who have put a lot of untruthful work into this and who should certainly be mentioned, are all those people at the municipalities. I asked a little more casually, but the answer turned out to be true. Since the beginning of the earthquakes, the municipality of Loppersum has organized 100 evenings of residents. A hundred residents' nights! All in all, a lot of people do a lot of things here. At the point of recording, we cut our fingers ugly. We did it later than we wanted. But I'll take care of these people for a while, because a lot has happened. Are we there? No! You can't. We have 26,000 people who know their house is being admitted at some point. Those 26,000 people don't all have clarity about when that's gonna happen. There's still a lot to do and this is still at the top of my list. Mrs Beckerman, Mr Sienot and, I believe, Mr Moorlag have asked a specific question: how are we going to speed up this operation? It is now the Minister of BZK, but I have been working with her for a little over a year and a half. I won't distance myself from it. There are four things that really need to be speeded up. The first is the typology approach. It's already been prescribed by the Miners' Council. It has started extremely hard, but soon one can start with terraced houses. The second is that somehow we had to make some kind of builder variant. It is now called the practical variant on the workplace. In doing so, contractors are involved in the reinforcement, so that they can start earlier. Then the construction agreement is very important. Finally, it is extremely important that there is a single implementation organisation. Those four things together should give clarity. I mean, they have to give speed. We are all working on that and in the upcoming regular planned AOs we will be able to insert the thermometer again and again on the basis of the dashboard.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u162	Have all the questions on this subject been answered? I don't think there's a lot left.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u163	Not quite. D66 has asked for cooperation between damage and reinforcement. That's going to happen now, because there's going to be one resident counselor for both damage and reinforcement at a specific address. The resident counselor becomes the same man or woman. It's up to that resident to signal that, but where it's possible, the recording and assessment for damage and strengthening are in one hand. That is the kind of cooperation that the organisations are seeing right now. Then Mr Van der Lee and Mrs Beckerman made a comment about the old damage. I just don't have the question anymore; I just know that a comment has been made on it. It is true that there was also contact with the NAM on the basis of that report. The NAM comes, let me put it this way, with some kind of repair stroke. We are still talking about how this is organised with the province and the NAM. This is not something that should take place at an NAM counter. We do not want that and the province would therefore be a more logical point of contact. But I'm still coming up with that. I'll work that out with the county, and I'll let you know how that's organized. But I don't think it would be good to put the NAM back in place as a kind of window.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u164	That was the end of the block? Then first Mrs. Beckerman. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u165	Mr President, first of all, just a general question. The Minister promised in January that 2019 will be the year of implementation. Today it is 324 of that year. Since the first term, the Chamber has actually received 3 million gas benefits, but a lot of Groningers are still waiting. My simple question is: do you still support that statement? Is this really the year of implementation? Did this really turn out to be the year those white vans started driving?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u166	Let me do justice to those 800 people. I think they've done more than they've done in the last 55 years. And about those vans: I don't know if it was all vans. There are currently 1,800 houses somewhere in the construction process. Or that's what vans come for? I'll take it. 500 houses have been delivered this year. Whether that was with vans, I don't know, but those houses are all visited, touched and so on. 2,300 recordings were made in 2019. There are 21,000 damages recorded on, I estimate, 15,000 addresses. Somewhere between 15,000 and 25,000 houses in the region must have been visited somehow by something similar to a van. I'm not saying it's finished. There are 26,000 houses on the list, because we made a commitment to get a recording of everyone who was ever on the list. I agree with that, but we didn't go to all that 26,000 in one go. That's true. It's not finished. It doesn't deserve anything other than that it's my top priority in the years to come. It's gonna stay that way. I am the first to say that we are still working on this for a long time to come, but these 800 people have made a big effort here. And no, we're not done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u167	My criticism is not directed at those 800 people. My criticism is actually directed at the Minister and at one of the decisions taken by the Minister, for example to pause the reinforcement. For example, there's a group of people, the batch 1581 I hate all that jargon, I think it divides and conquers those who had reinforcement advice a year and a half ago. They had to wait because the minister wanted to come up with a new way of working. And now it appears that their houses, which were then declared safe, are still unsafe and need to be strengthened. That's not because of the 800 people at work. That depends on the Minister's decision. What is the Minister going to do for those who have been waiting unjustly for a year and a half in an unsafe house?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u168	It seems a little like I've had to make some decisions freely, like a hobby. I'm responsible for security in the region. There has been an advice from the Mining Council and SodM, my supervisor, who was about to refer the whole approach to the trash can and strongly remind me that we were not working in any way to guarantee safety in Groningen. That supervisor says to me: you've landed in a dead end street, Mr. Wiebes, you've got to change your approach. Then I'm gonna take a different approach. No, all the houses we were working on, all the houses that had been given reinforcements in the house have been continued. That's why 500 fortified houses are coming from the band. That's not a hobby. They've moved on. That didn't stop. But for the other houses, I followed the SodM advice to move on to a different approach. We can see that the old approach has indeed not led to that speed. Now I'm going to be technocratic, too, but we know what we're talking about. A very good question: what will happen to the 1581? As soon as I have a final judgment that comes from the sample and the inspection, I will take a decision on that. I'll let you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u169	Thank you. Mrs. Beckerman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u170	I see the problem. Not a bad word about it. I'm gonna do it as soon as I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u171	The Minister is right that the old approach led by the former VVD-minister Kamp went extremely badly, but replacing something just with another bad is not a solution. It is your own official, the national coordinator Groningen, who says today: the reinforcement is not running. And that in the year of implementation. I am not getting anywhere at this point. One of the things that turns out to be bad today is the strengthening of unsafe schools. There too there have been problems, huge deficits. In any case, I want the Minister's commitment to ensure that in 2019, that famous year of implementation, he will ensure that there is no problem in strengthening unsafe schools.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u172	This has not yet reached me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u173	I was gonna come up with a point. It is a discussion that we have been holding for over a year, right after the decision on the new approach. It's about the notorious dashboard. The dashboard would not only indicate the starting position: what is the task? We've got a visual on him now. 26,000 houses in different situations. But the dashboard would provide insight into the progress we are going to make in strengthening on the basis of indicators. The NCG said today in the States that the dashboard is not there and that it is going to be a while before it arrives. It was supposed to be here next year. Is that right? When do we get that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u174	One is in which we can see policy where we stand and how it goes on. The other is that, as with the TCMG, we allow people to follow what happens more widely. There isn't yet. That's a next step, but that's what's gonna happen. Then everyone can watch and see what the progress is. That's what we're supposed to do in the end. It's like a dashboard outside the car. There will be.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u175	Your last question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u176	I think it is very important for everyone to be able to follow it, but as an auditor I would like to know exactly what steps are being taken in this task and what numbers are being reached in the meantime, so that we can control it. That must also be accessible to the public. When can I finally expect that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u177	Let me put it this way: Mr Van der Lee's question is first of all what the format, which he can look at every time, will look like. Secondly, when the external thing, visible to everyone, comes on the web. That's two questions. I'll make sure I answer that. I'm not ready right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u178	Will you come back to that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u179	I don't know if I have it in second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u180	Second term. And soon you will also have a debate on this subject. So second term and otherwise in that debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u181	I think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u182	Thank you. Mrs. Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u183	The Minister answered my question about the reinforcement and the number of engineers needed to do so, partly on paper. He indicates that the number of recordings and reviews in the fourth quarter of 2019 is growing to the desired level. Now the Minister has just indicated that this should come to 1,000 withdrawals a quarter...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u184	That's the goal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u185	Now the NCG has done an investigation. I referred to this in my research and so did Mrs Beckerman. It is said that everything contained in that batch 1581 must all be strengthened. So we're not gonna make it with 1,000 a quarter. If I look at the municipality's plans to get started and how the feedback is on the municipality's plans, then I think the minister himself might not like that either. Or am I wrong about that and am I getting an answer for next week's debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u186	I think we're talking about the same thing. Those 1,000 a quarter are the recordings. The forecast made by an external party is that 1,000 recordings can be made in the last quarter and that this could be followed up in 2020. Batch 1588 is not about recordings, possibly not even about reviews, but simply about giving the follow-up to the reinforcement notice. That's something else. Again, I will come back soon to the question of what to do with that batch, but that is independent of recordings. These have already been recorded.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u187	Your next question, Mrs Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u188	I'm gonna take a look at my colleague Amhaouch. My colleague is very kind. I'm talking about how many houses we can record, assess and tackle. I think that 500 is completely inadequate. So let's see what the desired level is, as the Minister states in his letter. If 1,000 is the desired level and we know by the sample of the NCG that there are many more houses to be strengthened, then those 1,000 are not enough in my view. If we put that off against the plans of the municipalities how we're going to tackle that reinforcement, then sodm has approved those municipal plans. How can I check at this time in the year if everything is being made? That dashboard is completely inadequate. How are we gonna handle this? I really want that clear next week from this minister and also from the other minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u189	A dashboard needs to give some insight into whether we can make those 4,000 shots a year. You just need to be able to see what's added per month or per unit of time. Then you can watch each time or turn on the desired number of recordings. Of course, you have to do the same with the reviews and the same with the reinforcements. Of course, it is not the case that every house that is assessed should also be strengthened. You should be able to see that in that dashboard.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u190	Thank you. Mr. Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u191	On a proposal from the Christian Union, a small amount has been made available for the spiritual and psychological support of affected families in Groningen. Of course, much more needs to be done there. The Minister has previously promised that he would discuss this with the board of the Groningen National Programme and link it back to the Chamber. Has that conversation taken place and when can we expect feedback?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u192	Shall we do that in the AO?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u193	I'd like to know if the conversation took place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u194	Not with me personally. I hear now: yes, the conversation has taken place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u195	Can we expect that feedback before or during the AA?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u196	I think that's a good idea.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u197	Fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u198	Thank you. Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u199	I'm not gonna talk about batches, I'm not gonna talk about 1581 and I'm not gonna talk about dashboards. I remember reading Minister Kamp's letter on 25 January 2013 that earthquakes not only cause nuisance and damage, but also pose a security risk. We've been six and a half years. This Minister has been responsible for this security issue for two years now. I have only one question for the Minister: can he say here, to the good of his conscience, that he has done everything that could reasonably have been done to ensure the safety of Groningen?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u200	If I didn't answer that, I'd have a conviction that something had to happen and I didn't. If I've done all the good things, that'll teach posterity. We are going to have a lot of investigations and parliamentary surveys on this. I've put aside paradigms that existed in a pretty rough way. I ended the gas extraction in a way that not many people would have thought. In addition, I have entrusted a young cabinet with a financial claim. Then I changed the approach based on a SodM advice, because I saw that we wouldn't get there at the pace. In contrast to the government agreement, I have made the settlement of damages completely public. Maybe in five years we conclude that I could have done all kinds of things, but my belief now is that with everything I had in me I have done all the things that sometimes went way beyond the box with the conviction that it was necessary to get out of here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u201	Thank you. You're at the end of your answer. This means that I would now like to give the floor to the Secretary of State for her answer. I call the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u202	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. There's another folder from Minister Wiebes, I see. I thought it was a bit unexpected; the minister forgot the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u203	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u204	It could have been done after the Secretary of State. The amendment in part No. 12.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u205	You are going to give an opinion on the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u206	The Beckerman/Van Raan amendment to item No. 12 concerns the cessation of greenhouse gas expenditure on biomass resources. It is also a question of legal obligations. Nor will this lead us to implement the Climate Agreement. I'm gonna have to dissuade this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u207	You are talking about the amendment to item No. 12?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u208	That's right, in part no. 12. Then there is the amendment to item 13. I understand that this amendment also went through the BZK budget. I agree with what my colleague said at the time, and that is 'dissuade'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u209	You are talking about the amendment to item No. 13, but that has now been replaced by the amendment to item No. 14. So you didn't recommend that amendment. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u210	Then there is the amendment to item No. 16. That's about $100 million for the ISDE. This comes from the SDE and is particularly beneficial to SMEs. In view of the discussion that has taken place, given the concerns about SMEs, but also given the opportunities that SMEs have seen, I leave this amendment to the Court's opinion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u211	Amendment No 16: Judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u212	Then there is the amendment to item No. 17, by Mr Van der Lee. I've already made a point about it. I recognize that tempo needs to be made with electrolysiss. I think that's what we need as a pilot. Emmen is a good candidate, but not the only candidate. Nor do I think that this is the way to reach decision-making on an electrolysis device. I must advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u213	The amendment in part No. 17 has been dissuaded. Thank you. I shall now give the floor to the Secretary of State for the first time to reply in the first time. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u214	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We're pretty much halfway there, the minister and I. 27 October was two years ago when we became directors at the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Climate. What I'm going to do in my term is look back a little bit but certainly look forward. Looking back, I end up first in October last. The World Economic Forum then published the Global Competitiveness Index. The results will not have escaped you: The Netherlands is world number four on the list of most competitive countries. Within Europe, we are in the first place. So we have a perfect starting position to compete internationally. In those days something special happened, because people congratulated me on this place. Of course, that's very nice, it's always nice to get congratulations. But I immediately said to everyone: thank you, but I think these congratulations should be directed to the entrepreneurs, the companies, the scientists, the inventors and the employees of the Netherlands. They finally managed to do this. Mr. Chairman. If you score that high, does that mean we're done? No, absolutely not, because standing still is definitely deteriorating here. At the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Climate Policy, Mr Wiebes, I and a lot of officials are also very keen to work with all those entrepreneurs and scientists to maintain and strengthen that position. Mr. Chairman. So all these lists say something about our economic starting position and what our entrepreneurs and scientists are doing, but also that it brings us prosperity. The Minister has just said a few things about this, which I will not repeat. Our prosperity is not self-evident; it does not remain that way. Look, for example, at the trade tensions between the United States and China, which have an impact on the world economy. But because we are a trading nation, all these developments are important to us and we feel them extra. I also follow the Brexit in this way: what does it ultimately mean for our economy and our entrepreneurs? Mr. Chairman. At the same time, I note that we are living in a time when there are big transitions. From my responsibility, I am mainly concerned with innovations, new techniques, new technologies and digitalisation. I'll go into that later. The Minister has just discussed in detail the transitions in the fields of energy, sustainability and gas extraction. I have seen how he has worked on the Climate Agreement, in which we have taken a major step towards a more carbon neutral future. I've seen at close range that this didn't happen on its own, but the keeper wins. I will do the rest of my speech along three lines. I will start under the fair economy section on the following issues. Franchise, which the PVV and the group of DENK have talked about. Consumer policy, and then I'm gonna talk about direct imports. These are consumers who order products directly from third countries via platforms. The VVD, the CDA and the member Van Haga discussed this. Unwanted telemarketing is underneath. Then I turn to the issue of good entrepreneurship. I will talk here about small and medium-sized family businesses. The VVD and the CDA discussed this. Craftsmanship, the proposal of the Christian Union. Of course, I will also discuss retailing and the delivery market debate, and I will end with innovation and digitisation. Finally, under the heading of tourism and the Van Swinden Laboratory, which Mr Bruins of the Christian Union has drawn attention to. Mr. Chairman. Fair economy. As far as I am concerned, the economy is not just a question of supply and demand and of competition. I believe that our economy should also be a fair economy: not an economy where the biggest wins or ultimately the winner takes everything, but an economy where smaller entrepreneurs also have a good chance of being successful. An economy that works for everyone. I say at the same time that I like competition. When you look at a sport, you also see that champions don't come into being by themselves: working hard, being the best, coming up with new ideas, being challenged by others. In the economy, the same counts for me. You're gonna need rules for that. They must ensure balance, so that everyone has a chance to participate and to earn an honest living. Mr. Chairman. That's when I like to bring up the Franchise Act. A number of groups have asked where it is. I expect the Council of State's advice back at any moment and hope to submit it to your Chamber. Why is that bill important? Because it is important, the good franchisees are not too much, because they are absolutely there, that there should be more balance between the often larger franchisees and the smaller franchisees or quite simply the drugstore, the Etos with us in the street, the Jumbo, the HEMA, the Primera, so that they also have a good chance to undertake and thereby keep our cities and villages liveable.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u215	A question from Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u216	Let me turn to the previous point. The Secretary of State made a sports metaphor. My question, very simply, very briefly: does the Secretary of State like doping in sport?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u217	No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u218	Thank you. Next question, Mr. Van Raan?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u219	The next question is: why does the Secretary of State not like doping in sport, but does she seem to be okay with doping in the economy? The Secretary of State is obviously unaware that if you look at the broad prosperity, that beautiful economy she has just won, fourth place, the here-and-now economy, at the expense of the opportunities of countries elsewhere and in the future. The broad prosperity is about the here and now, but also about it later and elsewhere. The reason why the economy is now flourishing, the here-and-now economy, is that we are using it as doping to perform now and later and elsewhere. That is not an opinion of Mr Van Raan before you say it: an opinion. No, that's what the CBS tells us and what the broad welfare monitor makes clear to us. If the Secretary of State doesn't like doping in sport, then I don't think she's secretly into doping in our economy when she sings it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u220	Your question is clear. The Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u221	I didn't hear myself sing doping in the economy. But this is a debate that I have had with Mr Van Raan before and which I think he has just had with the Minister. We are trying to include in all the measures we take precisely that broad concept of prosperity, which includes thinking about what the decisions we are taking now mean for future generations. That may not be exactly what Mr Van Raan wants, but that is precisely the beauty of Dutch politics: we have a lot of them and we disagree.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u222	Thank you. There is another question from Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u223	Yes, chairman, I think that's the second last. Again, it is not at all about what Mr Van Raan thinks or the fact that we disagree. No, it is to be noted that the Monitor Brede Prosperity measures that our current economy, the here-and-now economy, is very much at the expense of it later and elsewhere, in a terribly unfair way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u224	Your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u225	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u226	Your question to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u227	The Secretary of State pretends she doesn't know and says, "I didn't say that." No, she didn't say that either, but it starts with her being aware of it. Apparently, she's not aware of it at all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u228	Mr Van Raan again puts words in my mouth that I have not said. We are looking at the economy, focusing on future generations. Corporate social responsibility and corporate social responsibility internationally are responsibilities that fall within my remit. So yes, I disagree with Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u229	It's possible. Then we'll go to Mr. Aartsen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u230	Under the heading "fair conduct" and "fair rules of the game" in particular, I would like to talk about the prohibition on pawning. We have received written answers from the Secretary of State. We've been hammering this out as a VVD for three years now. That ban on pawning will make us drop a billion dollars in loans. The government does not have to pay euros for this. All she has to do is legislate. In its own action plan, the Secretary of State states: after the summer 2018 the internet consultation is over; then he comes. Last year it was said: after summer 2019 that law will come. In fact, that is not correct, because we are currently after the summer 2018 and after the summer 2019, but again I do not read a concrete date in the response of the Secretary of State. I really want to know clearly from the cabinet when entrepreneurs can expect legislation on this issue so that they can get those credits.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u231	In the written reply, you have read that the Minister for Legal Protection, Sander Dekker, is the first person to be appointed for this subject. He's working on this subject. Now happens to be today and tomorrow's debate on the budget of justice. Perhaps it would be a good idea to ask for a specific date there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u232	Sure. That's what we're gonna do, but I think the Secretary of State's gonna push it a little too easy. Because in her own action plan, this is a concrete action. The Secretary of State for EZK is therefore simply responsible for helping those entrepreneurs. The internet consultation ended 22 August 2018. What happened in the meantime? The bill wasn't even sent to the Council of State. In the meantime, entrepreneurs continue to wait for this legislation. I also think that the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs has a responsibility for those entrepreneurs to really speed up and stop stalling.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u233	I'll pass it on to my colleague for legal protection. I can't make it prettier. The Action Plan covers several issues of interest to entrepreneurs, but, as Mr Aartsen knows, there are also colleagues in the Cabinet who are responsible for various aspects. For this subject, Mr Aartsen is the first appointed Minister for Legal Protection, Sander Dekker, well known to Mr Aartsen. Maybe it's good to put the question there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u234	You're prosecuting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u235	Okay, Mr. Chairman. In the context of fair opportunities for entrepreneurs, I would also like to talk about the decision-making in the European Union on Platform-to-Business. This Regulation protects economic operators using platforms. By better informing them about general terms and conditions and the order of search results, entrepreneurs cannot simply be removed from platforms. It is also important that consumers' interests are well protected. Occasionally people say to me: you have a Ministry of Economic Affairs, which is also responsible for consumer protection. In a well-run economy, it is important for consumers to know that they can consume safely and protectedly. There has also been some discussion in your Chamber about banning unwanted telemarketing. I intend to present the legislative proposal to the Chamber at the beginning of next year. Mr. Chairman. Then there is another issue concerning consumer protection: direct imports.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u236	Before you do that, a question from Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u237	I heard the Secretary of State talk about fair entrepreneurship in the relationship between large and small enterprises. I would like to put the following to her in this regard. How do you feel about a small company, which lends €50,000 at Qredits, paying 8.75% interest and a large company paying 1 million credit 1%? Do you think that's fair?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u238	Honestly, it's something other than treating unequally equally. It is true that Qredits has a higher interest rate than in other places. But you're gonna get something for that. You'll get support and advice for that, too. The latest figures I have seen show that entrepreneurs are extremely satisfied with Qredits services. So it depends on what kind of company you have, what your question is, what your risk position is and what else you get for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u239	I have had this discussion with the Secretary of State and the CDA more often, even last year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u240	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u241	And then they said to me: wait another year; we're going to work, we're going to talk to the banks. Now the CDA comes up again with: more information is needed to get entrepreneurs back on track. But what action has the Secretary of State taken in the past year? What's changed in a year? What can I say to an SME, a small entrepreneur? I waited a year, and the Secretary of State arranged this and this for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u242	Recently, a few weeks ago, I sent a letter to the Chamber about the SME funding market. In that you found an analysis of what is going on in that SME finance market. There have been several investigations in which at least the following have been found. The CPB has looked at the credit market and found that there is market concentration, that there is some reluctance on the part of entrepreneurs to ask for funding and that competition for mortgage products is an explanation for lower financing needs. You also read in that letter that there is a wide range of instruments in the area of financing. That's good, because it matches the different types of companies and the different moments in their lifetime. In that letter, you also found a number of measures to ensure that entrepreneurs are given the funding they need more quickly in the near future. Previously, the so-called financing tables have already been introduced. That means if you can't get the funding around, you can be helped. They'll see how that happened and where you can end up. Previously, a foundation for alternative financing for small and medium-sized enterprises was financed by the Ministry. So there are quite a number of measures, but they are contained in that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u243	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u244	Yes, Mr President, I am sorry, but Mr Öztürk is asking, so I hope you will allow me to get that letter...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u245	... not entirely repeating.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u246	I didn't do that, Mr. Chairman. It's eleven pages; but I did want to list the highlights.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u247	For an interruption is short and concise, and so is the answer. Given the clock, I have to be more careful about that too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u248	The result is that many entrepreneurs do not apply for credit, as the Secretary of State says. Do you think that's crazy? Most have tried, but at some point they get to hear so often no, that they think: well, then it stops. So a lot of entrepreneurs have given up hope. That is already an observation. The second is that I asked the Secretary of State to talk to the banks. When banks went bankrupt, we saved them with billions of tax dollars. The banks have a social role, but they only think of themselves. It is therefore time for the Secretary of State to show courage and go to the banks to say that they should simply finance that SME. Not only the multinationals, but also the small entrepreneur must be financed. They shouldn't be bothered about that. Did the Secretary of State do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u249	The same letter also states that eight out of ten SMEs will find funding. So you can come to the conclusion that a lot of entrepreneurs do. The other one may be wondering whether it is not right that the funding should not be spent. So that's a nuance. But we have had this debate a few times. Did I talk to the banks? Yes, I did. Moreover, the banking sector is still the major financer of small and medium-sized enterprises. Nevertheless, I have seen that there is a reduction in the amount of money that is available. I did point out to them that they have a responsibility in that. I have also recently indicated that I would be pleased if the banking community could also see how they could support the credit unions, another alternative to small and medium-sized enterprises. So the answer is yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u250	Thank you for that, but I would like to see a little more results. I would nevertheless like to see the banks not abandon the entrepreneurs for small loans, because they make little money, and send the entrepreneurs not to Qredits for usury interest rates, but to help them. I would nevertheless ask the Secretary of State to urge the banks once again that these are our own entrepreneurs and that these people rightly need money and rightly need help. It can't be that the bank says you didn't fill out this form and here I see a risk, so you don't get any credit. You say that entrepreneurs are given credit, but these are the big businessmen, the multinationals and the people who are asking for millions of credits. I'm talking about the little entrepreneurs. The small entrepreneurs deserve our support.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u251	I am in part in agreement with this, namely that it is important that small and medium-sized enterprises should be able to make good use of the funds provided by Mr Öztürk. But the statement that Mr Öztürk is making here, namely 'they should just get funding', is a little too fast for me too. Because if you don't have a good business plan, it's a good thing you don't get funding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u252	Perhaps I should say something in support of Mr Öztürk. There are many SMEs, mainly small ones, that are not funded. That is also a bit in line with the accumulation of measures I indicated in my first term. We ourselves have saddled the banks with all kinds of new rules. Not only have we done so, but there will be all kinds of new rules from Europe. I would like to know from the Secretary of State whether this is being looked at. If we lay down all these rules with the banks, we should not look at those banks to blame them for not providing funding anymore, because that is what we ourselves imposed on those banks, by means of a detour.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u253	This really is the responsibility of the colleagues from the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u254	You are quite right, of course, but my point was that from all these different ministries there are differences and that they often end up completely on the board of the entrepreneur. I understand that there is nothing you can do about this, but Mr Öztürk is talking about the banks and you say that the SMEs do receive funding. That's not the case at the end of the day. It's not your fault; it's somewhere else. But I hope you'll take that up with your colleague.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u255	I did not say that every SME asking for funding gets it. I didn't post that statement here. That, by the way, would also be the truth. However, we have established with each other, including the Chamber, that an SME test is of the utmost importance in introducing new rules. This happens in the Netherlands for Dutch regulations. This is also happening at European level. But I can go with Mr Van Haga in part. In recent years there has been a build-up, which means that at some point you have legislation that has been introduced with the best intentions and with legitimate interests, but which you now think, if you look at it all together, is a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u256	You're prosecuting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u257	Mr. Chairman. I had arrived at the direct import. Consumers' interests should also be protected when buying products online, which is increasingly happening, especially when they come from third countries, i.e. from outside the European Union. Mr Aartsen of the VVD and Mr Amhaouch of the CDA spoke about this. It used to be easy. You just bought your stuff down the street from a shopkeeper and you went back there if something was wrong. But that's changed a lot. There are great advantages to buying over the internet. You have a lot of choice, it goes fast and you can see where you can get a good price as a consumer. However, it is a little more difficult for consumers who want to use guarantees, as well as for regulators who have to assess whether safety rules are being complied with. Mr. Chairman. Preliminary draft: All products entering the European market must comply with European legislation on product safety, and suppliers must comply with consumer rules. This is also important for a level playing field for business. Dutch consumers must be able to buy with confidence. That is why a large number of things have been done recently. In a European context, we have made agreements with large platforms: the Product Safety Pledge. This concerns voluntary agreements between the European Commission and a number of large platforms, such as AliExpress and Amazon, which go beyond European product safety rules. It turns out that in many cases these companies comply with the agreements they have made, for example: if something turns out to be unsafe, it is reported and such a product disappears from the platform within the short term. In addition, it has been agreed that there will be one contact point for supervisors. In addition, VAT should be paid on imported packages under the €22 from 2021 onwards. Of course, that's not gonna stop. I am launching an information campaign so that consumers realise that they are at extra risk when ordering products in so-called third countries, i.e. from outside the European Union. In addition, we have recently asked the ESC, the Economic and Social Council, to consider the role and responsibility that platforms should have in the future. In other words, if you cannot address the producer, what can we require of platforms? I expect this advice in the spring. I will also look with other EU Member States at the current role and responsibilities of platforms. It is now covered by the E-commerce Directive. And there is discussion about new legislation, namely the Digital Service Act. In this context, as far as I am concerned, we are going to look at whether we have settled things well with each other, because when the E-commerce Directive came into force, the world looked really different than it is now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u258	Is this block ready?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u259	Yes. This was the block of fair economy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u260	First of all, compliments. I've been, I think, working for a year on that racket about Chinese online platforms and it's all horrible. And it's all not good either, and it's killing SMEs. But it is now clear that a number of measures are in the pipeline. They're working hard on that. Compliments for that. I do have one more question. Doesn't it all end up going wrong at border control? If we don't have enough capacity there, isn't it a little mop-up with the tap open?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u261	There are over 70,000 packages a day coming across the border. That immediately indicates that it can't be controlled. I can't. It is therefore necessary for people to realize the risks they face. For example, we know that USB chargers are really much more unsafe than the chargers you just buy here in the shops. So the answer to the question is yes. At the same time, it cannot be maintained. That's why I'm starting a campaign now, so people realize the risks they're running.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u262	I fully agree, of course, with the responsibility of the consumer. It's nice that that happens. I fully support that responsibility campaign. Nevertheless, we must intelligently change the way we carry out border controls. If a container used to come in with 20,000 of the same items, you could take one thing out and check it out. It's not anymore. There are now 20,000 different articles in it. I realize that's another department, but how do you handle this government intelligently?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u263	I'm highly recommended for good ideas, because I haven't found the egg from Columbus, the silver bullet for this. 70,000 packages a day. Imagine what it says after a week. So we're doing what we can. We make all kinds of international agreements, including on security. We in the European Union are also in the process of reaching agreements on the safety of devices connected to the Internet. But the important thing is that people realize what they buy and where they buy something. And we're taking steps, though. I just mentioned the SER advice to see what you can do about platforms at this point. You have a producer, a distributor and an importer. But often direct imports as consumers are the last two and the producer is somewhere far in China. In other words, good luck with that. So that's what the situation is like now. But that means that we are thinking within the framework of the Digital Services Act, the new legislation under consideration, and in the context of the opinion I asked the ESC, namely: what can we do here? This is done because of consumer safety, but certainly also because of the importance that Mr Van Haga brings to this House and for which I believe Mr Aartsen is also on the interruptive microphone because of the level playing field for the Dutch and European entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u264	I think it is a bit of a turnaround, because we are now going to make a public campaign because entrepreneurs, who are in China, do not want to comply with our rules. The Secretary of State says: look at us, because we made a pledge; if there is a safe product with which an accident happens, people can go to the website again and then it is taken off afterwards. I do not think that is a fair playing field, because that Dutch entrepreneur is not allowed to work in this way either. He has to follow the rules first. If he doesn't, he gets a fine. It is not that this Dutch entrepreneur can make a product and if it happens to go wrong, for example if someone gets poisoned or gets red bumps on his skin, he can say: oops, sorry, I will get it from my assortment. No. We must appeal to those Chinese parties for their responsibility. Can the Secretary of State undertake that she is willing to contact these parties directly, to say: boys, stick to the Dutch rules; for once create a fair playing field for Dutch entrepreneurs?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u265	If we are going to have a debate here on whether there is a level playing field between many companies from China, for example, and companies in the Netherlands, we still have a lot of discussion to discuss. There are a number of things that are going wrong, but there are also a number of things that are being worked on. The International Procurement Instrument is an example of this. We have made our own proposals on the level playing field instrument. That's what we do. Agreements have been made with the International Consumer Protection and Enforcement Network, of which both the United States and China are members, with which the ACM can seek cooperation if it fails. About the Pledge, Lord Aartsen does a bit of: well, a pledge, what do you do with it? But when it is established that something is not safe, there will be contact with the relevant platforms and take the instruments off. Creativity would of course be fantastic and an ideal world would be very beautiful, but it's not like that. We are dealing with the change in the digital economy that is taking place. I am trying to take measures in several areas to ensure that we are more in the position of a level playing field. Because I think that is fundamental, just like Mr Aartsen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u266	I mentioned that pledge because it creates an unfair playing field. Because apparently Chinese parties may first take the risk that the product goes wrong and may remove the product from their assortment if the calf has already drowned. But the Dutch entrepreneurs simply have to follow the rules properly. They'll just get inspections and a fine if it goes wrong. So that's really the world upside down. The Chinese are avoiding our security requirements and our import duties, and they are also avoiding their responsibility. I think that the Secretary of State should really appeal to those Chinese parties more strongly on their responsibility, so that we can have a fair playing field for Dutch entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u267	I agree with Mr Aartsen. At the same time, I would like to know from Mr Aartsen what you do with 70,000 packages a day. Because, of course, that is where the practical problem lies. I am not going to repeat them all, Mr President, because that does not make you happy, but we are taking various measures. Those parties must comply with the legislation that has long been so, and we are taking measures to obtain instruments to ensure that they do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u268	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u269	I'd be happy to help the Secretary of State. This cabinet has been in contact with Alibaba, the specific company. Those contacts are there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u270	I know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u271	Through our diplomacy we tried to get a large distribution centre to South Limburg. I would say: use that same telephone number, Madam Secretary of State, to call the party concerned and ask them to please comply with our Dutch rules.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u272	Yeah, well, Mr. Aartsen's acting like we didn't. I have just indicated on a number of subjects that everything is being done to ensure, among other things, that this platform is being implemented, but there are more, including in other countries, which are complying with our legislation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u273	This is the block of fair economy. In a fair economy, entrepreneurs must also be able to act safely and consumers must be able to act safely. In the written reply on the Fraudhelpdesk, the Secretary of State says that the Fraudhelpdesk is indeed doing a good job. And then there will be a comma and a whole paragraph, but I would like to put a point there in the first place. The Fraud Help Desk is indeed doing a good job. Period. Now the question is how EZK and JenV are right to find a solution to the dilemma in which the Fraud Helpdesk ended up in JenV's most important contribution. What I wouldn't want is for the Fraud Help Desk to get really in trouble. They're doing a good job. Therefore, there must be some kind of warm transfer. 2019 needs to be closed and then we need to look at how we move forward in the future. Can the Secretary of State promise that she and JenV will take a very good look at this in order to resolve it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u274	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u275	Well, look at this: a long question and a very short answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u276	That's gonna save another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u277	I have also insisted on the China story in other ministries, because it makes me annoyed with green and yellow. If you see what our European products, high-quality products, costs and what they put on top of them, they are priceless products. And here they're throwing all that cheap shit on the market. Generalisingly speaking, they deal badly with people and with animals. They're not sticking to anything. That doesn't just apply to China. This applies to many Asian countries. Japan also does not keep to the agreements when it comes to whaling and that sort of thing. I would ask the Dutch Government to send out a clear signal on this, namely that we do not want to do so. I really want something to be said about that. On behalf of my group, I advocated a trade boycott many years ago if they do not comply with it. I even asked you that. That was not about China at the time, but about another Asian country, but it doesn't matter now. I think we should be stronger and harder on the Chinese.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u278	Yeah, I'd almost like to say, what was the question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u279	I'd like to explain that, but you shouldn't count it as interruption, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u280	A little shorter, then.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u281	I have said that I want the government to send that signal during negotiations. I know that the Secretary of State prefers to do so in a European context, but I do not need to do so. We can also do an all-inch entrance that's a nice word, all-inch, there's a lot of power in it too. We must send signals ourselves that we do not accept how they deal with humans and animals. With such countries, you should hinder trade rather than maintain it. They're killing a lot of Dutch companies with that cheap shit, and something has to be done about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u282	Yes, your point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u283	I talk about cheap mess myself. I think that's a bit like cheap shit, as Mr Graus calls it. The question of diplomatic contacts is, of course, a matter for the Foreign Office. What we do from Economic Affairs is see what you need to make sure that these companies from all over the world comply with our laws and regulations, so that there is a level playing field for our entrepreneurs and our consumers are protected. Let us realise one thing with each other: there are also a lot of Dutch entrepreneurs who trade with China and as such also create jobs in the Netherlands. This reciprocity must always be taken into account. I do not mean to say that we are not tough on our legislation that needs to be implemented. Occasional laws and practical objections, in the sense of 70,000 packages a day, stand in the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u284	However, a question from Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u285	That's why I also said "generalizing" and "without the good ones." I know a lot of good Chinese too. Those are decent people, and they will never mistreat an animal or a human being. But that's not the point. We're not here to compliment you. We're here to take care of the bastards. If I have to compliment myself, hundreds of hours of speaking time are not enough. It's about the bastards. Often that is a minority, but they do need to be dealt with. I want the Secretary of State to send a signal from her department, too. You shouldn't always throw everything off at the State Department. Trade missions are being carried out and this Secretary of State is also involved. That's where it has to be said: boys, cut it out. I say that as an animal ambassador. It's awful how they deal with animals there. That's too scandalous for words. You don't treat the biggest criminal like that, let alone a defenseless animal. It's unlikely you can do that at all. But I want those signals sent out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u286	Your point is clear. We're looking in the direction of the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u287	Once with the penultimate sentence: I also care about small animals. And yes, we are constantly looking at what we can do to ensure that these kinds of companies comply with our legislation. I have mentioned several examples of this. Mr. Chairman. Then the cup good entrepreneurship. One of the beautiful and inspiring aspects of my work is that I am in contact with a lot of entrepreneurs. After all, economics does not come about on the Bezuidenhoutseweg in The Hague, but in the country. I only mention two of them today: one I visited last Monday and one I go to next Monday. The first was Adriaan Verheul, a Plusmarket entrepreneur in the fourth generation of the Plusmarket in Benthuizen, 3,500 souls. He took over the company after his great-grandmother, who became a widow, started a grocery store in 1925. A family business pur sang! Family businesses have been raised here by a large number of members. With the members of your Chamber, I can say that family businesses are of great importance. Research also shows that they last forever in times of crisis. They try the longest to keep their staff in service. They remain the longest, with attention also to the environment in which they have been active for generations. Mr. Chairman. We pay attention to the bottlenecks that occur there, for example in the follow-up to the company. There is, among other things, a company succession scheme. This is a scheme in the gift and inheritance tax whereby the transferee is exempted up to certain limits. Also in income tax are opportunities that allow for the transfer of tax claims, so there is no acute taxation. Mr. Chairman. In addition to the fact that Adriaan Verheul has a beautiful family business, he also contributes, in small, at local level, to various policy goals of this cabinet. He does his best for sustainable and healthy choices. He is committed to cooking healthy meals for the elderly. He's trying to include people with disabilities in his company. He is together with the primary schools watching how they can realize a water point to make sure that children drink more water and a little less soft drinks. He started an online home delivery service a while ago and it has now been taken over by other Plus markets. As far as I am concerned, he is an example of good entrepreneurship. But he's not the only one. Next Monday I will be in Amsterdam and will visit Coen Janssen, the co-founder of Hiber, one of our national icons. That company has its own satellite network that provides worldwide coverage, even in places where that is not as well regulated as in the Netherlands, I say. That network allows satellites and sensors to deliver data on the ground, so farmers know exactly where to irrigate, fertilize and harvest. There are many who work 24 hours a day, 7 days a week at their own expense and risk. They sometimes do so at times when other people already enjoy their free time, because they have a fantastic product and want to be meaningful to their environment and sometimes just to make money. And I always like to see that, too. Let's nurture that mentality.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u288	End of block good entrepreneurship?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u289	No, Mr President, I see Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u290	Yeah, but I'd actually like to suggest we finish the block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u291	Then that's what I'll do, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u292	Oh, Mr Öztürk really wants to do so. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u293	A fantastic story, really. I think hundreds of thousands of people contribute to our society day in and day out. But what does the Secretary of State think that these people felt the moment they heard and saw that the cabinet wanted to pay 1.2 billion dividends to three multinationals? Fortunately, this did not happen, as a result of all these discussions with the Chamber; in the end, those entrepreneurs did not want it to happen. The point is that this kind of entrepreneurs are in a lot of pain when they hear that Shell doesn't pay taxes, that we buy EUR 1 billion in shares to save KLM and that we're just batting multinationals. What kind of feelings do you make as a cabinet to these people?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u294	I do not think it is wise to have a discussion about this which I believe has been settled more than a year ago. I would like to say the following to Mr Öztürk. I'm not from the school pretending that big companies and multinationals are irrelevant. They are very important for the economic prosperity of our country. When I talk to small entrepreneurs, I hear them say that a lot. A catering company simply does well when there is a large company in its surroundings. ASML in Eindhoven has contact with hundreds of companies and thus develops new products. Because of the ecosystem, as it is called, in that environment, the largest economic growth in the Netherlands is achieved if you look at it by region. When I talk to entrepreneurs, and I talk to a lot of them, I always hear that story from them. It's got to be in balance. If that is what Mr Öztürk means, I agree with him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u295	I see that Mr Öztürk wishes to ask another question. We have agreed on the number of questions you may ask at the front of the debate. You're on half the number of questions. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u296	I hear ASML and VDL every year. We already know that story. You can't get away with that story either, like ASML here and VDL there. They get millions of grants; they get millions of support. VDL gets millions from the government to build cars. The small entrepreneur gets no credit and has problems with the self-employed deduction that is being taken away. The taxi driver can no longer subtract the bpm when he gets a car to the Netherlands. That's what I'm talking about. You can keep a very nice story and make it feel like you stand up for the small entrepreneur, but meanwhile the money goes to the big entrepreneur. I've been asking you about that for years. Apart from the stories we always hear about VDL, Wim van der Leegte, ASML and so on: what do you do for the small entrepreneur?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u297	I can also start with HSB Construction in Volendam, a large contractor who has a lot of contacts with other companies in my hometown. That is not a multinational company, but it is also quite a company of some size. So, yeah, what do we do? Let me continue with my speech, Mr President. We have the SME Action Plan, which contains many actions for the small and medium-sized enterprises in particular, with 200 million to support them. What do we do, for example? We are helping small and medium-sized enterprises to enable the digitisation of our economy. Very practical, just together with students from colleges, MBOs, VNO-NCW and the municipalities, we help them with online sales and marketing. We help them with the data that each company now has somewhere in a computer file, so that they can use it to make revenue and profits. That's what we do. Last week, we signed the Knowledge and Innovation Agreement, in which we gathered nearly 5 billion together. This will also benefit small and medium-sized enterprises. So I think we are doing a lot to help and encourage small and medium-sized enterprises, the foundation of our economy, to take next steps. I'm moving on, Mr. Chairman. I thought, "It's still there, so maybe he'll get in the rebound."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u298	No, you're not. You're just moving on. In the meantime, I'm also looking at the clock a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u299	Mr Verhoeven is handling it, I see. Mr. Chairman. Seven out of ten people work in small and medium-sized enterprises. I say this once again to show the importance of this. I now have a block on SME funding, but I have already shared that with your Chamber in an interrupting debate, so I will leave that for now. In the context of good entrepreneurship, I come to the shopkeepers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u300	I'm out of my mind for a second. So this is still the block of good entrepreneurship. I'm just gonna ask you the same question. It's about the SME test. The Secretary of State says in the written reply that it is being arrested and that entrepreneurs are very satisfied with the approach of the SME test in the Department of Economic Affairs. What entrepreneurs are not satisfied with are the opinions issued to other departments, such as Social Affairs and Justice. Those advices often don't get picked up. The question to the Secretary of State is: how do we deal with this? Can we take more direction, so that other departments, other than Economic Affairs, which is doing well, will also carry out the SME test?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u301	What is the SME test? The SME test is done when legislation is in place and SMEs are asked to discuss its consequences with them. That's the SME test. Then there will be an opinion. Until then, I'm the coordinating person. From the moment there is an opinion, it is up to the relevant ministry to do sensible things with it. It is therefore up to the Court of Justice, as I said earlier, to look very closely at what has happened in the SME test and at the advice of the ATR, which also forms part of my regulatory pressure policy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u302	The Secretary of State is calling it the advice. It is right that we should ask better about this. EZK is the coordinating department and carries out the SME test. Can the Secretary of State promise to understand the SME advice sent to other departments? Then we take it up as a chamber here to ask the right minister. It is about the entrepreneur, the small entrepreneur, for example of that Plus market. It is of good will, which do change, also in the sustainability that is coming, but he wants to have an action perspective, he wants to be able to act on time. If he's really hurt, he'll have to ring the bell and we'll have to use it as a room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u303	I'm systemically responsible for that SME test. I report every year on the control printing policy and what happens in it. I do not see how, every time a ministry is working on a law and an SME test is done, I have to immediately inform the Chamber. You don't have to. Such a bill comes naturally to the Chamber and you can, together with the colleagues from the various groups responsible for these laws, see what has happened to it. Mr. Chairman. I'm with the shopkeepers, retail or retail. A good month is coming, but in general you can say that the sector is in severe weather. There are fewer and fewer people walking through the shopping streets. More and more is being bought online. In the last week, the shopkeepers have come forward. They rightly call for attention to be paid to a number of issues. It concerns a number of things that I do interfere with myself, but also matters that lie at municipal level. I believe that we all need to make every effort to ensure that entrepreneurs can adapt their earning model. Towns and cities help to keep the cities liveable. That is also why the Retail Agenda was set five years ago. It is my intention to look at what can be done in the near future and to work on this together. All parties have now indicated that they will continue to work together to pursue this Retail Agenda. That's what you call a Retail Agenda 3.0, that's what it's like these days. Some of your Members have also said to me: should you not even look at a task force? It is my plan to use the new Retail Agenda to develop a number of targeted tasks that aim to strengthen entrepreneurship, reduce emptiness, identify what is coming to the sector and identify bottlenecks and urgent issues. That's how I want to help the entrepreneur. Mr. Chairman. I don't think I've ever shared it before, but I've been planning to talk to aldermen of economic affairs for a while. When you talk about retailing, placement permits, the ban on leafleting, door-to-door sales, these are all topics that fall under municipal responsibility. I notice that there is sometimes some uncertainty about what they actually have in their instruments. I would, of course, like to highlight the entrepreneurial interest.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u304	The task force is an important point, because I asked questions about it yesterday. By the way, so is the VVD. I have also outlined that the retail trade is really surrounded by all kinds of different problems with different orders of magnitude. It's local with parking fees. Furthermore, there are the rental prices and the real estate fiscalities that create vacant positions. There is also unfair competition from China, but also from the government. New concepts are difficult to achieve due to restrictive regulation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u305	Your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u306	It is indeed a good thing, Mr President, that you say that, because there are so many problems in the retail sector that I would go on about this for far too long if I were not careful. But it is a serious problem. Those shopkeepers really are with the hairs in their heads. Hands in the hair! Just like I do when I go on like this. I do want them not to be sent into the reeds with a bunny, because we do something that, in the end, is just not what they need. So I would like to ask the Secretary of State how powerful this task force is going to be. Is that really a club of people who can put the problems together in a short time and really get some hard advice or is it a bit poldering? I really hope for the first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u307	As far as I'm concerned, it's gonna be the first. It would be a waste of everyone's time if you didn't identify with each other what the real problems are and what you can do about them. So yes, that's almost self-evident to me. We're getting a little carried away with each other and that has also brought us a lot of good,...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u308	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u309	... but I'm always the first to identify the problem and then see what we can do about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u310	I heard the Secretary of State say a lot of good things. Thank you for that. Two things were very important. She said, first of all, that we need to make every effort to help entrepreneurs find new earning models. The second was that we absolutely must see what we can do. Is the Secretary of State in favour of making blurring possible, so that retailers can finally innovate and go along with the time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u311	Then the question is, what is blurring? Blurring means that entrepreneurs want to make more and more combinations. At least that's my definition of blurring. These include combinations of retail, hotel, culture and business services. There is much more to it than entrepreneurs can often think. I think that it is good to bring this to the attention of the relevant interbranch organisations once again. I know that blurring is an initiative of the VVD to make it possible to drink alcohol anywhere in the retail trade. As a result of this initiative, there has already been an interruption debate with Secretary of State Blokhuis. At that time it was said that at least increasing the number of sales places of alcohol is in contrast to the purpose of the Prevention Agreement. At the moment when this is discussed, this discussion will eventually have to be conducted together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u312	What Mr Blokhuis of the Secretary of State says is exactly the problem. Those are the entrepreneurs who say when someone buys a wedding dress: let me give you a glass of prosecco. Then the Secretary of State's colleague says, "Watch out, because if you do, people might get addicted to alcohol." That's no good to an entrepreneur like that. Blurring isn't just about alcohol, it's about sharing functions, it's about not dealing with ridiculous legislation and rules. If you're asking for a drink or a hospitality license, you have to make two separate toilets in your shop. That must not be allowed to happen again from the zoning plan and other matters. Nowadays, you can't have two toilets at all, because you have to have gender-neutral toilets.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u313	Stop it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u314	I mean, it's exactly whether the Cabinet is prepared to deal with these kinds of rules and get rid of these kinds of things. Now, please, let's not make a problem with that one glass of wine at the barber shop or that one cup of coffee at the bookstore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u315	I always find it so unfortunate that it is reduced to that one glass of wine at the hairdresser, because blurring is much more. That's a restaurant owner who wants to sell his cutlery or the paintings on the wall. And there are real possibilities for that, but it has to be done within existing legislation. I do not know whether it is a legislative proposal or an initiative paper from the VVD, but perhaps it would be good to look at those other subjects when it comes to that. There has just been extensive discussion of a prevention agreement. I think everyone has gone along with that. To say now that this does not apply to the expansion of alcohol outlets at the hairdresser would be a waste of all the efforts that Mr Blokhuis has made here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u316	It's about the rules that get in the way. Your colleague, Mr Wiebes, rightly said that we sometimes have to be a little fair and reasonable. I understand you're quoting the prevention agreement. I think everyone in this Chamber will support that in part. But if we're reasonable and fair, isn't the problem of that prevention agreement in the one glass of prosecco you get when you buy that wedding dress? That's not where the problem is, is it? The Secretary of State refers to the VVD's bill. This is precisely because the cabinet says "no, no, no" permanently about blurring. It doesn't want to do anything about it. If we could get our hands together and say there's a lot more we can do, let's work together. I ask the cabinet to be a little more accommodating on that one part of that alcohol, and then I think we can mean a lot to those entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u317	It is not for me to advise the VVD group, but do you realize what steps have been taken earlier by the cabinet, what the Chamber has agreed to, and then see where you can make things possible. There is a lot of information available on the internet that, by looking at regulations in a different way, by asking on a number of points whether that is the right thing to do, can be taken a step forward for that entrepreneur. Hanging on to the glass of prosecco at the barber's every time... What can I say about that? At least it's a good thing the hairdresser doesn't drink. Shall we leave it at that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u318	You will continue with your response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u319	At least the moment she cuts. Other than that, I'm not in charge. Then I arrived at Mr Moorlag. He spoke in his input about the wider impact of online shopping on the delivery chain. He mentioned a number of concerns. I found it very recognizable, because I share it. Sustainability, mobility, working conditions, unfair competition, waste, crime. I understand these concerns. When I try to imagine how that development will continue in the future, I also wonder what that effect will be. Several ministries are considering different aspects of this issue: IenW when it comes to transport and mobility, Social Affairs when it comes to package delivery and my ministry when it comes to a level playing field and with a sloping eye also about false self-employment. There are several instruments that have recently been adapted. I mentioned the abolition of the VAT exemption for packages under €22. The green deals in the top sector Logistics are also a good example of this. I would therefore suggest to Mr Moorlag that we undertake an interdepartmental exploration or inventory of what is going on and what is still needed in order to address the issues that are certainly there. Mr President, that was the heading 'good entrepreneurship'. I now come to 'innovation and digitisation', unless Mr Moorlag has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u320	I appreciate the Secretary of State's answer. What matters to me is that there will be an exploration, which will take place in cooperation, for example, with social partners, employers' organisations and inter-branch organisations. I wonder if that is also decided in the approach that the Secretary of State just put forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u321	Yes, every official in every ministry has daily contact with the organizations mentioned by Mr Moorlag. If you are thinking about the position of parcel delivery workers, or if you are thinking about mobility within the Ministry of Social Affairs and Employment and IenW respectively, then of course you are also talking to these organisations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u322	I am concerned that there should be a coherent approach. I want a chain approach. It concerns the entire journey between the consumer's mailbox and the distribution centre from where the parcel came from. If the Secretary of State can vouch for that, I think it's pure profit. What matters to me is how the Chamber is informed about the outcome.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u323	If we have made that inventory at some point, we will of course put it in a letter and send it to the Chamber. That goes without saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u324	You're going to the next block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u325	I would also like to talk about innovation, from both sides. On the one hand as a flywheel for economic growth. With a declining workforce, you will have to focus on innovation. Not everything was said about that, by the way. Of course, together with OCW and Social Affairs, I am working with the Technics Pact to ensure that we get more technically trained staff. This is one of the biggest problems facing innovative businesses, and thus affecting economic growth. It is difficult to find sufficient technical staff. In his contribution, Mr Bruins asked for attention to craftsmanship. He has presented a fine action plan, for which he thanked. Mr Graus, of course, always talks about this. And professionals are very important. Through the Technics Pact, I have paid attention to this. Furthermore, I intend to facilitate so-called hybrid teachers or teaching. In 2020, we will start this programme. This year I will be responding to the point raised earlier by Mr Bruins, namely with regard to the proposed Wbto, the Technical Education Promotion Act, as he himself calls it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u326	Mr Amhaouch's final question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u327	The Technics Pact is important to train technical staff and train people in organisations, to train or to train. We've seen the relationship between boys and girls more often in the Technics Pact. How can we mobilise more ladies to opt for technique? That actually continues with the diversity within such an organisation. Can the Secretary of State say anything about that? What does research do about diversity within entrepreneurship, within companies? Do we benefit from it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u328	When you look at research in this field, you see that organisations lack economic opportunities if they are not diverse. McKinsey wrote a very nice report on that. This is also the economic importance of organisations that are sufficiently diverse. That's one. Two: the Technics Pact also explicitly focuses on encouraging girls and young women to train in technology. If you're understaffed, anywhere, and you're missing 30-40% of your workforce, you have a problem. The second side of innovation I am discussing here is innovation as a solution to societal issues. Collaboration is incredibly important and, as far as I am concerned, a Dutch success factor. We know from literature that investing in research and development has a positive effect on labour productivity. A meta-analysis indicates that one euro of additional R&D in companies in the longer term leads to four and a half euros of additional size of the economy. Mr. Chairman. I'm also working on digital transition from my role. As we know, digital changes will affect every facet of our lives. Last year, a digital summit took place for the first time. The Wörsdörfer motion, I say, out of my mind, has given it another push. Never before have we in the Netherlands considered the power of digitalisation of our society in this way. Several ministries and industry have given thought to our future and what is needed in the area of digitalisation. Mr. Chairman. It is my job to continue to ask the question how, thanks to innovation and key technologies, artificial intelligence, photonics, quantum technology, we will continue to create jobs and revenue in the future. The answer to the question of how we are going to make our money is changing. We must therefore join in with that. A great result of the past year I look forward, but once in a while it is also the new start-up and scale-up policy. I am incredibly pleased that Constantine of Orange has agreed to play the role of Special Envoy. He's opening doors. With him and with the new StartupDelta, TechLeap.NL, as it's called, I'll say it again once again professionalize we also there. This is necessary to allow innovative SMEs to grow. As I said, innovation is fundamental to economic growth. I would be failing all the efforts of all those involved if I did not call this the 2020-2023 Knowledge and Innovation Agreement. This is about Dutch solutions to international societal challenges in the field of food supply, sustainability, care and safety. Together with companies, also very large ones, I would like to say once again: universities, colleges, research institutes, the region and ten departments concerned, we are going to work there in the coming years. Small and medium-sized enterprises also have a very important role to play. When you talk about quantum computers, it is also good to realize that there is a real revolution in computing power that calculates all possible solutions to a problem in a fraction of time. There are new laser techniques that allow doctors to operate their patients as accurately as possible, reducing complications and accelerating recovery. Then photonics. We are always talking about the fact that this digital highway requires so much energy. With photonics, we will also take measures there. Then, of course, everything in the field of composite matters. If we want aircraft to be more economical, it is important that they are lighter. That is why everything that is happening in this area is also important. Mr. Chairman. I have a number of other issues that have also been raised, particularly in the pamphlet that Mr Verhoeven has offered me. I'll go into that now, starting with AI. Without data, algorithms are of no use to you, and without algorithms, you have no artificial intelligence, or artificial intelligence, to put it on the Belgian side. There are also a number of questions about this. For example, Mrs Van den Berg and Mr Wörsdörfer have previously tabled a motion on the well-known blackbox algorithms. Furthermore, I call it "the computer says no" algorithm, where no one really knows why a decision has been taken. In my view, it is important that it remains transparent, that it is possible to find out why a decision has been taken and therefore keep people's confidence in it. The Strategic Action Plan AI has been presented, including all kinds of collaborations and the beginning of solutions to issues that lie there. China has just been mentioned, but when I see how that part of the world deals with AI, I don't think it should be here. That is why it is so good that we ourselves in the Netherlands, but also in cooperation with other European countries, think about this and take measures to organise it differently. Mr Verhoeven asked me if it would be possible to make it easier to understand how the funds for AI are going to be spent. I can imagine this question. I would therefore like to promise him that I will report on the commitment of public funding for AI at the end of next year or early 2021. I must point out, however, that the level of detail at which I am going to be able to do so may vary by instrument. Another issue is the online platforms, which Mr Verhoeven's pamphlet also addresses. It is now almost an annual tradition: Mr Verhoeven summarizes his ideas in a note. I have also received this as a nice handy booklet, so there is absolutely progress in it. Thank you for that. We will continue next month during a separate debate. Let me mention in particular one of the elements in that leaflet, namely market power. Earlier, on 17 May, I sent a letter in which you can read that with D66 I believe it is desirable to draw up legislation around platforms so that in future regulators can regulate powerful platforms, so-called port guards or gatekeepers, in advance. This is complementary to existing competition rules. Mr Verhoeven also asked me a question about an interoperability obligation. Interoperability relates to the exchange of services between platforms. At present, the European telecoms framework already provides for the possibility of imposing an interoperability obligation for certain services, such as Skype, in the future. It makes sense to explore whether this is also necessary for other platforms. We are discussing Mr Verhoeven's previous initiative at the end of this month. That was about competition. I look forward to it, but I would also look forward to another moment to speak about other parts of Mr Verhoeven's pamphlet. Mr. Chairman. That was my block on innovation and digitalization.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u329	Thank you. It does raise a question from Mr Verhoeven. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u330	Thank you for the answers and for the enthusiasm to talk further. We will and we will continue to do so. The Secretary of State has answered my questions about market power, but I have also made a number of comments about data power. That refers to the fact that having a lot of data about people at all already gives a form of power to the tech verses. Without them doing anything with it, it already gives a form of power. That is why the collection of these data itself, regardless of competition with other companies, is an issue in which the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs also has a role. I asked her about that cookie hour and the possibility to just say no to a cookie hour while you can still get on that site. I also asked her about sites where you can't or always can't share data, and the default setting is actually always that you do share data. Sorry for the long interruption, Mr. Chairman. As far as I'm concerned, you make two in one of them...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u331	But you're going to the question now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u332	...then it's okay. It's all these little, smart decor tricks that a lot of these big companies use to trick people into doing something. There's a very big problem with that power. Those are all of those little moments when a consumer clicks on something and then they decided, without even knowing that, that they give away a lot of their data. That is also an important aspect that I have raised. I would also like to hear the Secretary of State say something about this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u333	It's known to me... Who doesn't know, who doesn't get annoyed by the cookie walls? At the same time, we must realise that the internet as it looks now, the free internet that is for everyone, is there because we give up our data. I know that the Dutch Data Protection Authority has indicated that you must give permission to do so, but that consent is not valid on the basis of the General Data Protection Regulation if the consent to surrender that personal data is enforced by blocking access to the site if you do not give the consent and even if that means that you then have to pay for it. Did you give a valid consent? At the same time, we must also realise that the revenue model of the Internet is now looking like this. I think that we should end up in a discussion with each other: if we want to do this differently with each other. There are increasing objections, because more and more people are beginning to realize exactly what Mr Verhoeven is saying here. If we want to change that, there will be consequences. That's why I'm looking forward to that discussion. We don't come to a solution here very soon tonight, but we need to talk about it. I have also read in Mr Verhoeven's report that Germany, for example, has already indicated, at least, that I read in Mr Verhoeven's story that Facebook, WhatsApp and Instagram, all part of the same company, are no longer allowed to move the data back and forth. Interesting. I read it and thought that's where we have to learn from each other. Mr. Chairman. This really is a very big issue where we have to set a direction together. But we also have to realize that if we say "it can't happen anymore," you can end up in a situation where one person can still access the Internet because he can afford it. Then privacy becomes something that is reserved for people who have the money for it. Then something else goes wrong in our society.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u334	A supplementary question from Mr Verhoeven. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u335	Yeah, once. Well, finalizing... I thought I had two more, didn't I?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u336	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u337	Then the last one on this subject. I'll make it a little more general. I thank you for the detailed answer. That makes it too complicated, and at this time we should not want it to be. The Secretary of State said that there are more and more people who are aware of it. This afternoon I had the Justice and Security budget, which I was allowed to do. At that time, I introduced the same pamphlet, and that is where I talked about the government side in particular. I noticed from the Minister for Legal Protection and also the Minister for cybersecurity that they both look at matters in a different way than they did a year and a half ago. That is a genuine move on the part of those two rulers. They have not always agreed with my ideas on this subject, but they said: yes, at least we appreciate the point; we do not agree on everything, but we do see that we have to do something. Can I conclude from the words of the Secretary of State and the way in which she responds that she also sees that there are a number of fundamental problems actually arising when it comes to the relationship between large companies with incredibly high data and people who are actually becoming increasingly dependent on them and who are no longer aware of them, even being driven by all kinds of persuasive, influencing technologies, which actually makes these people less and less autonomous? Can I conclude from this that we really need to do something about this and that it is also a European debate in which the Secretary of State really wants to put energy into it? May I conclude with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u338	Yes, this Secretary of State is already doing that. The letter of 17 May contains three proposals for action in the field of competition and platforms. That's also about the position that platforms have in the end. One of these proposals is that you have to include the value of data in the threesholds, the thresholds that apply to competition control. So this Secretary of State is already doing that. This Secretary of State is already having discussions at European level on ethical guidelines for the use of AI. When you talk about AI, you talk about algorithms, you talk about data. They're connected. Another piece this Secretary of State sent to the Chamber is to share the note on data. I think that data should preferably be shared voluntarily, but there are absolute moments when you have to realize, in the context of the general interest, that you may have to make it compulsory. I always think it's a good example of John Deere. I like tractors, so I think it is also a very nice company. But there's also all kinds of software in there, so you're slowly realizing that there's a company somewhere on the other side of the ocean that might know more about our land than our farmers. That's never been shown in history. What are we gonna do with that? Those are the questions we need to talk about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u339	I asked a question about sustainable asphalt. The Secretary of State didn't know this problem. I would like to draw her attention to something that Rijkswaterstaat says: "In order to remain innovative, construction companies and engineering companies need a reasonable return and protection for their intellectual property. At the same time, as a client, the government does not want to be dependent on one supplier with a knowledge monopoly." But there's always got to be one first. How is the Secretary of State going to ensure that companies that have invented beautiful new things are also given the opportunity to proceed with these products first?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u340	This question from the 50PLUS Group was answered in writing on page 24. That's one. Two, this is about the SBIR tenders. When the government makes a tender that focuses on new, innovative products, it is also always considered whether there is a reason to regulate intellectual property. At different times in the process this is looked at. However, as you have been able to read, I am not familiar with the specific case you are putting forward here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u341	I read the answer, but I'm worried because the Secretary of State doesn't know this. And a letter to your colleague, Mrs Mulder, says something about BAM, who is running into this problem. I recognize that this is more common in Rijkswaterstaat, also in all kinds of other things in the context of water safety and the like. Is it not a worrying situation that entrepreneurs who develop beautiful new things do not have the opportunity to go ahead with it, because they must wait first and not be the only ones, as has been said by Rijkswaterstaat?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u342	I don't know this case. I don't have a colleague named Mulder in the cabinet either. I'm just looking for some more information on this. Can't I agree with Mrs. Van Brenn that she's asking written questions about this so we can see what she means?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u343	That seems to me to be a good suggestion, and I would also say in the direction of Mrs Van Brenk. Otherwise, we'll do it on the IenW Committee, because I think it belongs there. Or we could ask the Secretary of State to direct your question to her colleague in the cabinet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u344	I am certainly prepared to ask written questions, but when we talk about innovation, innovation and so on, I think that this Secretary of State should get to work on that. So I'm sure we will.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u345	You can also ask your questions to two directors. This Secretary of State will meet them. You're almost ready for the rounding?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u346	I'm almost done: tourism and the Van Swinden Laboratory. Mr. Chairman. MEPs have said that tourism brings many opportunities, but also that it has a different side, namely that it is constantly growing and there are so slow places in the Netherlands where parts of the population no longer feel senang. The vision Perspective 2030 outlines a development of the tourism sector based on the balance between lusts and burdens. This vision is embraced by me and the provinces. As a result, on 9 October I had what a beautiful day that was! The 2030 Action Agenda is presented. It focuses on a number of actions: the development and improvement of tourist destinations, which really needs to be done at regional level. Developing knowledge and tools for better visitor management. One of the actions is also getting good and current data. Together with provinces, NBTC, knowledge institutions and other partners, I put my shoulders under the National Data Alliance. There are also several municipalities that are interested in pilot projects to collect this data. Think of phone data, for example. Finally, VSL. Where's Mr. Bruins? Ah, there he is. From sustainable shipbuilding to another subject which I know Mr Bruins attaches great importance to. By the way, that's quite right. I heard him say once before: innovation is of the utmost importance, but if you can't determine with each other how cold, how far, how long and so on, then we have a problem. He called for the vital infrastructure to be guaranteed as soon as possible. This against the background of the recent sale of VSL. VSL is a private company with statutory tasks. A private status can have advantages, such as investing in developing new techniques or exploring new markets. In practice, we see that too. The investor in VSL has informed me that he has invested 6 million in VSL and in housing. Whoever the owner is is in charge of carrying out those statutory tasks. In this context, I stated in my letter earlier this week that I intended to take measures, for example to mitigate the influence of the owner of VSL. Mr. Chairman. In addition, in response to Mr Bruins' question, I am prepared to examine the need for further measures to protect the vital infrastructure, i.e. the fantastic devices that stand there for example, and to examine what measures might be needed to do so, and to inform the Chamber of Commerce before the summer of 2020. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to thank you for your warm words regarding the extension of the subsidy scheme for sustainable shipbuilding. Finally, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u347	Before you do that, a question from Mr Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u348	I would once again like to thank the Secretary of State for her rather strong letter of Parliament on the situation at VSL. It recognises that communication to the customer has been poor, that there is pressure on budgets, resulting in vulnerability to staff turnover, and that measurement standards have now been discontinued. But the Secretary of State has also made a few softer comments. She expects stability to be greater next year and there needs to be improvement, but we do not yet see that improvement. Can I agree with the Secretary of State that if there is indeed a report in the summer of 2020, all the standards should simply be in order again, that prices should not rise unreasonablely and that housing and working conditions should simply be in order, and that otherwise we should really continue to look seriously at how we proceed with this lab?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u349	If Mr Bruins is also in line with VSL's legal tasks, I agree with him. I cannot give guarantees, but I can agree with Mr Bruins that we will also report on these issues before the summer of 2020. Because given the importance of this laboratory, it is appropriate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u350	I will sit on it as well, because I have also read the report of the Council of Experts. They say that a calibration institute is actually a public institution in all countries. It's become private with us. That is an unpleasant exception in Europe. If it is not possible to deprivatise it, the Council of Experts believes that there should in any case be strict monitoring of its functioning. May I assume that the Secretary of State will indeed remain on top of that? Then I'd love to do it with her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u351	I'd love to. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I think it is a good idea to identify with each other and to keep mentioning that there are great opportunities for our economy and our society when it comes to digitisation and innovation, but we also need to monitor the risks. That brings me to the end of my speech, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u352	If it is correct, you also have a map of two amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u353	Yes, Mr. Chairman, I do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u354	But before you do that, there is Mr Verhoeven's final question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u355	And with that, of course, also from the D66 Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u356	Sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u357	I had to keep it, because yesterday at the end of my speech I asked a question about the finances surrounding the Song Festival. Somehow that's a subject that everybody's gonna laugh about, but the Netherlands has the Song Festival. It talks about the fact that it is difficult to organise this and that Rotterdam cannot bear these costs alone, and that there can be one way or another a situation in which millions are needed to make this possible. Everyone knows that the Netherlands is going to organize that Song Festival. So everyone also knows that if we need to do that, we all have to start a creative search to make that possible as a country. Everyone also knows that it is an event that has been won by us and that we have the responsibility to organise it, and that is what is going to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u358	Your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u359	So I asked the Secretary of State if it is also possible to look at a contribution from the tourism angle, if necessary. Because this is, of course, an event that puts yourself on the map as a country. I would like to hear from Secretary of State about this. I'm not saying there's more tax money to go to the Song Festival. I'm not saying it all has to come from the Secretary of State...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u360	Your question is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u361	... but I'm looking for some kind of readiness setup, at the time it would be necessary, to give Duncan's success a follow-up at the national level.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u362	But he was fantastic. In Mr Verhoeven's words, it is all a bit: well, let's get on with it. Perhaps I should also laugh a bit that Mr Verhoeven keeps his final question for the Song Festival. No matter how I was jumping on the couches and how fantastic I thought that song was from the beginning... It wasn't about him winning; I loved it from the start. I was actually the first, I hear Mr Verhoeven say. I think that might be true. At the same time, I must also state... Mr Verhoeven asked me to look at it within the framework of the tourism budget. That money's just in a grant decision to the NBTC. So I just don't have room for that. There is, by the way, a Secretary of State responsible for the economy, and with that, one might say, for the greatest tax revenue in this country, but I also have the smallest budget of everyone. So I wouldn't know where to get it myself, no matter how great I think it is, and no matter how proud I am that we're finally back in business.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u363	Thank you. Then there are the two amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u364	Oh, yes, the amendments. These are two amendments. From my mind: an amendment by, I think,...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u365	The amendment in part No. 18, by Mr Amhaouch and Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u366	Yes. Judgment Room. And that also applies to the amendment on item No. 19.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u367	The amendment in part No. 18: Judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u368	In the case of Amendment No 1, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has tabled a number of amendments. 19, on the data alliance, we still have to make the point that we are going to see how best to shape it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u369	The amendment in part No. 19, members Aartsen and von Martels: judgment Chamber. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I'd love to go... Oh, Mr. Graus. A question to the Secretary of State, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u370	No, no. I have a general question. I've left 24 seconds to read two motions. I had six. I've left enough to read two motions. Now it seems I've been sitting here for almost 14 years, but I didn't know that I just lost those 20, 24 seconds. Now my colleague Van Haga, with whom I can table these motions together, says: you can have a minute from me. But you can't. So you're gonna have to do everything you can from now on, 'cause those 20 seconds I've got left, I'm gonna lose. I don't think that's entirely fair. I'm dropping four motions, but I'd like to file two motions. I've left 20 seconds. I really hope for the support of the Chamber, so that I may read out those two requests. So I didn't know. From now on, I'm gonna leave nothing. Anything you leave in a minute, you just lose. Mr. Bosma, our secretary, is going to say something about that at the Bureau. I just think this is crazy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u371	Actually, this is a point of order. I also see Mr Verhoeven standing. About this point?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u372	I took a look over Mr. Graus' shoulders. They're also short motions. In general, I think that we should just treat each other collectively. Let Mr. Graus read those motions and then we can just in a good way...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u373	I can see another minute. I propose that Mr Graus start his second term now and put forward his motions quickly. Then we'll have another cup of coffee together, Mr Graus, and then I'll explain to you the rules of the budget. I call Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u374	You were going to swim with me on the roof of a hotel in Berlin. You haven't done that yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u375	No, no, no. You wouldn't like that...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u376	The first motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to examine, within the budget allocated, how to increase knowledge and applicability of artificial intelligence (Al) in the agro-chain, in the maritime sector and in mainports, supervisors and watchdogs, for the benefit of algorithms in its own sector, without hindering innovation and reducing competitiveness,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Graus and Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u377	The final motion, Madam President. This was also signed by former commando Van Haga. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the financial, economic and social consequences of nitrogen and pfas measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Graus and Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u378	Thank you. And thank you for the collegiality. Mr Verhoeven, where is he? Is he gone?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u379	You had 20 seconds left.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u380	I also wanted to submit something for market buyers and carnivalists, but I'll come back to that later, with Mr. Aartsen of the VVD, in another consultation. So we are going to put forward a motion for that. Thank you. Mr Verhoeven, thank you!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u381	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Kops for his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u382	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that more than 650,000 households live in energy poverty;]] [[Whereas the energy bill should be reduced;]] [[calls on the government to abolish the ODE and the SDE immediately,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government wants to shut down all Dutch coal plants in Amsterdam as early as 2020;]] [[Whereas this results in hundreds of redundancies;]] [[calls on the Government to keep all coal-fired power stations open and to reverse any plans to close down,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Paris Climate Agreement entered into force on 4 November 2016;]] [[whereas a country may withdraw from the Agreement three years after its entry into force (Article 28);]] [[calls on the Government to withdraw from the Paris Climate Agreement immediately,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-22]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member Kops. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-23]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Kops and Mr Wilders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u383	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u384	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Aartsen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u385	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a number of motions to support the points I made earlier, and specifically on the policy of differentiation of SMEs. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that business consists of a huge variety of different companies;]] [[Whereas there are also a number of differences within SMEs, such as size and type of business, turnover or industry in which SMEs operate;]] [[noting that policies and regulations are often general in nature and do not provide sufficient tailor-made solutions for SMEs;]] [[Whereas regulatory differentiation is desirable to facilitate SMEs' ability to comply with the requirements of the proposed regulation;]] [[calls on the government to carry out government-wide and inter-departmental research into how it can achieve greater regulatory differentiation for SMEs so that SMEs get the tailor-made work they deserve,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Aartsen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u386	Together with Mr Bruins, I would like to examine the bottlenecks that specific family businesses are experiencing at the moment. That is why we are tabling the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that family businesses provide 49% of employment in the Netherlands and provide 53% of GDP;]] [[Whereas family businesses form the basis of the Dutch economy;]] [[noting that family businesses are faced with regulatory and fiscal bottlenecks due to their specific nature;]] [[calls on the government to carry out government-wide investigations, in cooperation with relevant stakeholders, into bottlenecks for family businesses, and to report to the Chamber as soon as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Aartsen and Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u387	Doing an investigation into family businesses, that's what the VVD says along with...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u388	Troubles.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u389	You know that, don't you, as an economic spokesman and spokesperson for entrepreneurship?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u390	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u391	Surely an entrepreneurial party like the VVD doesn't have to ask for an investigation into this, which is going to take a year and from which measures will be taken just before the elections? Or is this weather meant to show you: look, guys, we'll do something for you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u392	No, we certainly hear specific signals from entrepreneurs. That is why we are tabling this motion. But just because we know here doesn't mean we're gonna fix it automatically. Especially when it comes to tax measures, and specifically with the BOR, you have to look carefully first: okay, if you change this, what bottleneck will you solve? Then you need to see how you're gonna fix that. You can't do that with a magic wand. That is perhaps the difference between calling on one side of the Chamber and carrying government responsibility to the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u393	Thank you. Very brief, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u394	Government responsibility!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u395	Yes, you find that a difficult word.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u396	No, Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u397	Family businesses fool around, just a poppie copy story.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u398	Mr. Öztürk...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u399	Your policy staff can do that investigation within the hour. But you don't know. You can't bring ideas here. And then you're just trying to fool the family businesses.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u400	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u401	I would like to suggest to the VVD spokesman that we prepare ourselves better in future. Explore it yourself first and come up with concrete proposals, so that the family businesses really do have something to do with it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u402	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u403	As Mr Öztürk knows, the Chamber has little support. Yes, that's why you can laugh, Mr Öztürk, but I don't think it's funny. That's right. I think that these family businesses deserve much more attention and deserve much more research into what they are facing specifically than just the one magazine that Mr Öztürk is reading here in the plenary. We are the party that is really going to provide solutions and not just call for calls from the opposition.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u404	You'll continue with your input.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u405	We would like additional protection for SMEs against specific large companies that abuse their position. I have already mentioned a number of examples. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas SMEs are the driving force behind the Dutch economy;]] [[noting that there are examples where large companies abuse their position vis-à-vis SMEs, such as the use of too long payment periods, the inclusion of a ban on pledge in contracts or the enforcement of strangle contracts by large software providers;]] [[Whereas, given their specific position, SMEs do not always have the freedom to reject certain contracts;]] [[Considering that SMEs deserve greater protection from public authorities;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how SMEs can be better protected against abuse of the position by large companies,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Aartsen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u406	Mr. Chairman. I believe that the Secretary of State should act harder against the products coming from China, and especially against the parties who shun themselves from their responsibilities and here and there just fuck things up every once in a while. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Dutch SMEs suffer from unfair competition from China;]] [[Whereas this unfair competition arises because products imported from China, for example through Alibaba, do not meet the same safety requirements as products sold in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government, more specifically the Secretary of State for Economic Affairs and Climate Policy, to engage with parties such as Alibaba and to ask them to apply the safety requirements applicable to their products in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Aartsen and Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u407	Mr. Chairman. Many entrepreneurs suffer from undermining crime and multi-stakeholders. They run counter to data sharing when dealing with it. For example, because of GDPR, but also because of other rules, it is not possible for SMEs to exclude those criminals from their shops and to deal with them on the shopping street. We'd like a little more action on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that SMEs can play an important role in the fight against organised crime and undermining through information exchange;]] [[Whereas legislation is currently under way which already provides for more frequent data sharing;]] [[noting that it is currently unclear for many SMEs whether and in what form information exchange between SMEs is permitted;]] [[calls on the Government to clarify the opportunities for information exchange with SMEs so that they can help SMEs in the fight against organised crime and undermining crime;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibility of launching and implementing pilot projects at present with the exchange of information by SMEs to other SMEs and by SMEs to the public authorities so that they can help SMEs in the fight against organised crime,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Aartsen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u408	Mr. Chairman. Together with Mr Verhoeven, I have indicated that there are major problems at the moment in retail, in the shopping streets, and that we really want some action on that. We shall therefore table this motion together. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas the retail sector in the Netherlands is under strong pressure, as shown by the rising shopping emptiness in many Dutch municipalities and by the declining business results in the sector;]] [[noting that the existing innovation arrangements are mainly available for the innovation of a product;]] [[Considering that process and concept innovations such as digitalisation are crucial for innovations within retail and the shopping street of the future;]] [[calls on the Government to set up a task force to identify the causes of the shortage in shopping areas and what measures can be taken to combat this;]] [[calls on the Government to examine, together with relevant business and industry organisations, whether and how retailers and physical retailers can also benefit from innovation schemes and other initiatives in the field of innovation and digitisation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Aartsen and Mr Verhoeven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-30]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u409	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank, in my case, the Minister, who has answered the questions from my portfolio, but also, of course, the Secretary of State for all the answers given. In particular, I thank them for the answer given in writing to Question 3, namely to the research on nuclear energy. It is not yet this year, but fortunately it will be in the first quarter of next year. Then I am sure we will discuss it further here in the Chamber. I also asked a question about cleaning up old oil and gas platforms. The Minister is concerned about this problem and also promises that the forthcoming legislative amendment will give more scope for direction. Apart from that, I would like to ask him to look further at what is needed to complete the transition plans in time from the Ministry, and not just from EBN. I have two further questions, also in response to the written answers. Yesterday, in my first term, I talked about energy investments abroad and the Joint Project Mechanism available for this purpose. I say it in English, because that is what the regulations say. The Minister said: I actually filled that out, because it will not work in 2020. Apart from that, I would like to explore the conditions and criteria under which we think that is a good idea for the future. Do we want that with all the Member States? Or do we ask any questions about whether or not it would be a good idea from a Dutch perspective? Perhaps the Minister would like to take this up again in the near future. Finally, I have a question about the buffer for adjustable power, which I asked about yesterday. The Minister states that he will continue to monitor developments, security of supply and its flexibility. He wants to inform the Chamber about this in the middle of next year. Therefore, the Minister could address the question of the energy mix, the adjustable power and the buffer in the years after 2030. Could he provide a prognosis of this so that we do not focus solely on the first ten-year period? I would like to have a commitment in this area. Mr. Chairman. Finally, I have two motions for resolutions. One is on a subject that I was talking about yesterday and which the Minister is also addressing, but which I would like to go further. That's SF6. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas climate change is also caused by F-gases including hexafluoride (SF6);]] [[Whereas SF6 is used, inter alia, in wind turbines;]] [[noting that reports of SF6 leakages from wind turbines have appeared;]] [[Whereas it may be important to further reduce the F-gases;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the use of sulphur hexafluoride (SF6) in wind turbines and its emissions and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Harbers, Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Sienot and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u410	Let's do another one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that it is important that SMEs have an action perspective in the energy transition;]] [[Considering that the Cabinet is currently carrying out research into the impact of the Climate Agreement on SMEs, including asking the participating SMEs about their potential to make use of the existing schemes, including SDE++ and ISDE, and how they could be better addressed;]] [[calls on the Government to consider in the short term what additional techniques could be included in the ISDE for SMEs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Harbers, Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Sienot and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-32]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u411	Finally, Mr President. This motion is complementary to the amendment tabled to ensure that the instruments for SMEs are actually put in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u412	Thank you very much. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Van der Lee for his second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u413	Thank you very much, Mr President. Many thanks also to the rulers for the detailed answer. I have a number of motions and actually two more questions. First of all, I am tabling a motion because the amendment I tabled has been dissuaded. That motion is about hydrogen. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas an electrolysis device can stimulate the development of green hydrogen while at the same time providing a solution to the problems of network capacity;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how innovative hydrogen projects such as an electrolysis project in Emmen (part of the Hydrogen Investment Agenda North Netherlands) can be promoted through an operating grant,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van der Lee. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-33]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u414	In the event of a judgment Chamber, I withdraw my amendment. Then my next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to consider the possibility of additional investments in key energy transition projects when drawing up the growth agenda and subsequent investment fund,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there are major problems surrounding network capacity and that there is a spatial mismatch between supply and demand;]] [[noting that the transport and storage of molecules and heat still requires many adjustments to existing and construction of new infrastructure;]] [[noting that at present it is not always clear to large energy consumers in particular which renewable energy can reach them when and that this may be a major obstacle to the energy transition in the future;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up a national plan, in addition to the Climate Agreement and intertwined with regional energy strategies, for the transport and storage of energy, which makes clear choices on where to generate energy, how to transport it and store it where necessary,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van der Lee. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-34]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van der Lee. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u415	Then there is a motion on sustainable business start-ups and the length of payback, which the Minister would come back to. I'm helping him with this motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas if we are to achieve the climate targets, the amount of renewable energy generation in the Netherlands needs to be greatly increased;]] [[noting that energy savings and renewable energy generation of companies are lagging behind;]] [[Considering that the Climate Agreement has agreed that the Cabinet will come up with an update of the Environmental Management Act which will focus on an integrated climate approach, involving both energy-saving measures and renewable energy generation;]] [[noting that in many cases solar panel generation has a payback period of seven years;]] [[calls on the Government to include in the update of the energy saving obligation under the Environmental Management Act which technical options would be covered by a seven-year payback period,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van der Lee and Mr Sienot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-36]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u416	Let's talk about biomass. I didn't have a lot of interruptions anymore. I very much appreciate the Minister's speech. I share many of his arguments. My group also supports the use of sustainable biomass. The question is, are we on the right track? When I look at the Climate Agreement and the use of biomass, it ignores the amount of biomass available and the amount that you could import from the rest of the world from a fair share perspective. My group thinks that the use of biomass for electricity generation is absurd, because there are many other alternatives. The Minister does not want to move on this in view of the discussion about the Coal Act and the amendments I have tabled to it. That is why there is nothing left for me but to call for a moratorium on the granting of new decisions on the use of biomass for power plants, particularly in the heat sector. I want a moratorium until we have discussed the new sustainability framework here in the Chamber, including cascading agreements. Perhaps we will be able to discuss the use of biomass again in the future, even for heat generation, but then there really must be a robust sustainability framework, with very sharp cascading arrangements. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Mainly that the cabinet has indicated "resisting" to deal with the issue of new grant decisions for biomass power plants;]] [[calls on the Government not to issue any new decisions for biomass plants, at least until the sustainability framework for biomass with clear cascading arrangements has been discussed in Parliament,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by members Van der Lee, Van Raan, Beckerman, Moorlag and Van Brenn.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-37]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u417	I have one comment to make on the root and the stick. I would just like to point out that companies have been warned more often about taking the necessary measures to save energy. These have actually been mandatory for 25 years. Therefore, we really need to maintain and be punished. I say this in the light, for example, of how hard we act when it comes to the tax authorities' allowances, of how hard we take citizens' standards. And then it cannot be the case that this obligation, which has been in place for so long, which is repeatedly promised and which does not deliver the energy saving promised, is not taken a step and a sanction is imposed. I'd like to make that point anyway. Finally, a question about the SDE funds. Mr Harbers had a fair question about it in his first contribution. The Minister gives a written answer that is the way forward, while the Court of Auditors is really concerned about whether we have sufficient control over the decisions, the space in the SDE and their matching with the expenditure we are going to spend under the Climate Agreement. However, I would ask the Minister to take into account the Court's remark that he should better report to the Chamber on what is going on with the SDE, mandatory decisions, possibly mandatory decisions in space, to see if he should not carry out a sensitivity analysis to ensure that we have enough room to make all the expenditure necessary to achieve the Climate Agreement and the climate targets. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u418	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Mulder.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u419	Mr President, thank you very much. I shall begin with the motions and then make a few comments. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas green hydrogen will be an important part of our energy and climate transition;]] [[Whereas green hydrogen offers opportunities for our industrial clusters and thus for our employment;]] [[Calls on the Government to examine how the approach of wind at sea and the development of green hydrogen production (such as electrolysis) can reinforce each other and thus contribute to accelerating the production of green hydrogen;]] [[further requests that the following be examined:]] [[the combination of offshore wind farms and production of green hydrogen at sea or on land;]] [[wind farms directly connected to customers rather than to the national electricity grid;]] [[re-use of gas infrastructure at sea to transport gas converted electricity to land;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the Chamber of Research before the summer of 2020 and to send proposals to the Chamber in response to the research to accelerate the development of green hydrogen,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Harbers, Mr Sienot and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-38]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u420	Mr President, the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas industry should be encouraged to invest here to ensure that sustainable products are produced in the Netherlands and that employment is maintained;]] [[Considering that industry and larger business will contribute significantly more to the storage of renewable energy by 2020;]] [[calls on the government to open up subsidies in the expanded SDE+ to business as soon as possible and, where necessary, to tailor them so that companies can start investing as quickly as possible, including in technologies that are not yet profitable but fit for cost-effective deployment towards 2030,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas ways of storing electricity should be sought to avoid congestion and network congestion;]] [[Whereas, among other things, the energy hub Emmen uses green hydrogen and in Drenthe there is also congestion on the electricity grid;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether the congestion on the electricity grid can be solved by producing hydrogen and, for example, to avoid grid congestion costs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Harbers, Mr Sienot and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-39]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Sienot, Mr Harbers and Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u421	Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister for his commitment to include the tariffs of heat grids with the people responsible. We don't have to put their greenhouses on the backs of our residents. We would have liked to get that back from the Minister soon, because it will be 2020 again. Furthermore, we still have concerns about the RESs. We think it is right to take D66's suggestion to better involve residents. As far as biomass is concerned, we are committed to standards. We have tabled a motion for a resolution on this subject which will be tabled shortly. The SP will be tabling a motion on a rather annoying form of sale. We have asked questions about this before, and we wholeheartedly support this motion. Mr President, thank you very much for your help this evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u422	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Amhaouch.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u423	Mr. Chairman. First, thanks to the Minister and the Secretary of State for answering the questions and commitments. I am going through five motions at a rapid rate, also on behalf of my other colleagues. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that family businesses are the largest proportion of companies in the Netherlands, between 70% and 75%;]] [[noting that family businesses have specific characteristics, including their focus on continuity, involvement in staff and region, and financial position;]] [[noting that there are no national records on family businesses;]] [[Whereas the lack of data makes it impossible to monitor the development of family businesses properly and thus lacks any targeted policy;]] [[calls on the Government to collect and make available, through the Central Bureau for Statistics, quantitative data on family holdings, broken down by size classes, with an insight into developments over a longer period, broken down by national, provincial and municipal level,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands has traditionally been a manufacturing country known worldwide for its high-quality products;]] [[noting that the manufacturing industry is an important driver of the economy, providing a high level of employment in both the Randstad and the region;]] [[Whereas, in the light of international developments such as globalisation, emerging markets and protectionism, the Netherlands should continue to strengthen its competitiveness within and outside Europe;]] [[Whereas it is important that the Netherlands continue to be a manufacturing country in the future, focused on the production of high-quality, sustainable and knowledge-intensive products;]] [[Whereas it is important to know what the Dutch manufacturing industry needs in order to develop in this direction and to be able to pursue good policies here as a government;]] [[calls on the Government to carry out an investigation into this matter and to identify the framework conditions for this manufacturing industry 2.0,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in the Netherlands the number of international companies, often logistics, is growing rapidly;]] [[Whereas this creates employment, but in some places undesirable effects occur, such as numbness of the landscape, degradation of the quality of life and repression of other local SMEs;]] [[Whereas, as a result of developments such as robotisation, the added value of these halls for the economy and for employment in the future is unclear;]] [[Whereas logistics should have added value for a regional ecosystem;]] [[Considering the need to balance economy, logistics and viability;]] [[having regard to the opinion of the College of National Advisors (X)XL - Less, more compact, more concentrated, more multifunctional;]] [[calls on the government, in consultation with provinces and municipalities, to respond to this opinion, and to consider where to slow down unwanted drugshooting and how to better steer it towards added value,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the opportunities offered by digitalisation are still underutilised in the smaller SME segment in particular;]] [[noting that research carried out by the Chamber of Commerce shows that, in particular, small SMEs of between two and ten employees are relatively small digital renewals;]] [[noting that the result is that these entrepreneurs do not have the opportunity to improve labour productivity, and hence growth;]] [[Considering that, from the beginning of 2020, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Climate Action will take a further step towards scaling up SME Workshops to a nationwide coverage network, which will accelerate digitisation in this SME segment;]] [[calls on the Government to evaluate the effectiveness and reach of the SME Workshops as a whole one year after its launch and, on the basis of this evaluation, to assess whether additional resources are needed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Amhaouch and Mr Palland. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-41]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Amhaouch and Mr Wiersma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-42]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Amhaouch and Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-43]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Amhaouch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-44]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u424	Mr President, I shall now come to the final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the number of domestic and foreign tourists in the Netherlands is expected to increase significantly in the coming years;]] [[having regard to the letter of inquiry on the distribution of tourists dated 2 March 2018;]] [[Whereas the government wants to spread tourism more widely across the country in order to prevent crowds in the well-known places and allow as many regions as possible to take advantage of economic opportunities;]] [[Whereas more iconic tourist attractions in the region can contribute to this distribution;]] [[Whereas international and regional tourist attractions, e.g. museums, can cooperate to this end, for example through exchanges or the opening of temporary attachments, to make tourist icons, such as art and historical objects, accessible to a wider public;]] [[calls on the Government to ask the Dutch Tourism & Congresses to include this in their distribution strategy and to consider opportunities, needs and bottlenecks and to inform the Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Amhaouch and Mr von Martels. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u425	In the last five seconds, I would like to say that we are looking forward to the economic growth letter, the future perspective for the welfare level of the Netherlands. We would like to discuss it as soon as possible in this Chamber, so I hope that the Minister will come to the Chamber as soon as possible with that letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u426	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mrs Beckerman. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u427	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that consumers are poorly protected against the excesses of the energy market;]] [[whereas this summer a motion was adopted by the House of Representatives calling for the protection of consumers to be put first and to examine how more stringent requirements can be imposed on energy suppliers;]] [[Whereas in the case of energy sales at the door, there is often a misdirection whereby energy suppliers and their intermediaries have knowingly broken the law;]] [[Whereas a further increase in this door-to-door sale is to be expected while many people are already unwittingly stuck with bad contracts;]] [[considers that there is no adequate monitoring of this type of sale;]] [[calls on the Government to step up monitoring of the sale of energy at the door;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibility of banning door-to-door sales of energy or the establishment of so-called colportage-free zones,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that only a small number of companies are responsible for half of all CO emissions from industry;]] [[Whereas the Cabinet refuses to allow these major polluters to pay their fair share of the climate damage they cause;]] [[Whereas the cost of climate policy is still disproportionate for households and SMEs;]] [[invites the expected individual ODE contribution up to 2030 of the 20 companies that produce the highest greenhouse gas emissions in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas financial deficits have arisen in the strengthening of schools in Groningen;]] [[also considering that it is unacceptable that delays lead to children remaining in unsafe schools;]] [[invites the Government to consult with NAM and other stakeholders as soon as possible in order to supplement finances and to inform the Court of Justice in 2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas Minister Groningen promised that 2019 would be the year of implementation;]] [[Considering that by the end of 2019 the process of strengthening has still not started sufficiently;]] [[In addition, considering that research shows that homes that do not have an increased risk according to the HRA model are nevertheless unsafe;]] [[calls on the Government to make every effort to ensure that 2020 will be the year of implementation and to present a plan before the end of 2019 to inspect, assess and strengthen as many homes as possible,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Beckerman, Mr Sjoerdsma, Mr Moorlag, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Agnes Mulder, Mr Van der Lee, Mr Van Brenn, Mr Van Raan and Mr Öztürk.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-46]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-47]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-48]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-49]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u428	The final motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that research shows that 63% of the victims of old damages who accepted NAM's bid did not receive sufficient money to repair the damage;]] [[Whereas those injured are entitled to full compensation;]] [[calls on the Government to present a plan before the end of 2019 to achieve fair compensation and to reserve financial resources for this purpose,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-50]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u429	And you can keep those three minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u430	Well, well, well, well. Mr Futselaar is indeed skipping. Thank you, Mrs Beckerman. Then I would like to give the floor to Mr Sienot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u431	Mr. Chairman. D66 wants clean energy to be cheap and easy for everyone. I'm just gonna say it again. I am pleased that the Minister has promised to sit down with the heat companies and talk about rising prices. When can the Chamber expect the results of these talks? In my opinion, my colleague from the CDA asked the same question and I am happy to endorse it. Climate policy needs everyone to be able to talk and think with. It is therefore a good thing that the Minister will bring to the attention of municipalities the opportunity for a digital consultation. Municipalities are helped if as much support as possible for insulation and really clean energy is available. That is why I also want strict requirements for subsidies for biomass. I have two motions on that. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, until the sustainability framework has been implemented, subsidies for new biomass plants on wood pellets are still to be granted;]] [[calls on the Government to assess, until the sustainability framework has been implemented, after each SDE+ round to what extent this creates the risk of bottlenecks in the availability of sustainable wood pellets and, on this basis, to include, if necessary, restrictions for the specific use of sustainable wood pellets in the following SDE++ openings,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sienot, Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-51]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u432	And another motion on biomass. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that small and medium-sized biomass installations may have a negative impact on local air quality;]] [[Whereas it is undesirable for municipalities to plan biomass plants that do not comply with the biomass framework currently being established when drawing up their heat plans;]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[develop standards for nitrogen and fine dust for the new sale and correct installation and maintenance of biomass plants in 2022, and as far as possible;]] [[encourage municipalities to explore, in addition to biomass, other sustainable alternatives to heat generation;]] [[finalise decisions on the sustainability framework before final adoption of the Regional Energy Strategies and Heat Plans by municipalities and provinces,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sienot and Mr Agnes Mulder. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-52]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u433	Mr Van der Lee has a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u434	I have a question about the significance of this motion and about the year: 2022, or so much earlier. Do I have to understand that you are asking for the results of the discussion on sustainability frameworking and cascading to be introduced, or are you going to ask for additional requirements when it comes to limiting emissions? I just don't quite understand how to take this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u435	Thank you for this question for a more detailed explanation. The biomass framework is, of course, about cascading the different types of biomass, carbon debt and related issues. It's not necessarily about emission standards. As far as I am concerned, they should be included, but it is still unclear to what extent and whether that will be the case. Nevertheless, this is highly desirable. That is why I also say: 2022, and much sooner, emissions standards, because we are having a nitrogen crisis. I hope I've made it pretty clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u436	In addition, Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u437	In itself, but that too is already part of the Climate Agreement, in order to look at tightening up emissions requirements. The Minister just explained that. It is not entirely clear to me whether you are asking for something new or whether it is a ratification.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u438	It is a further tightening-up of the Climate Agreement, as the Climate Agreement on biomass framework and emission standards covers several areas. When it comes to emission standards, it is about clean and healthy air. That is what this is all about. I hope I've explained it well enough to the best of my conscience.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u439	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u440	Then I shall continue, with your permission, Madam President. For us, it is important that the government creates good conditions for affordable heat prices and monitors them. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the new heat regime sets new heat tariffs and provides potentially unintentional space for heat undertakings to charge additional costs to consumers for CHP systems;]] [[calls on the Government to monitor closely whether the tariffs set by the ACM on 1-1-2020 for WCO systems offer sufficient protection to the consumer, so that, if necessary, tightening can take place in Heat Act 2.0.,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sienot and Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-53]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u441	And another motion I made with Mr. Big Data. It's sweating in the server loft. Let's really make better use of that heat. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that residual heat from data centres has the same status as industrial residual heat, whether it is a sustainable or fossil source;]] [[calls on the Government to pursue maximum reduction of residual heat from industrial production processes while encouraging available green residual heat, from, for example, green power-using data centres, which would otherwise be discharged as a CO-free heat source,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Sienot and Mr Verhoeven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-54]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u442	A question from Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u443	My question is actually, and it is not just up to Mr Sienot, whether everything is going well. This is the 20th motion from the coalition side. There are motions to ask for an evaluation after a year. Now it's "must make the most of it." This is the kind of thing you ask a government, isn't it? You don't have to record them all in a motion, do you? Is there so much distrust in this government?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u444	I cannot answer on behalf of all my colleagues. I am also not aware that I have tabled so many motions because I haven't filed them in a while. Now there is the budgetary procedure. It's there once a year. That's where you put the beacons. That's where you put the hooks for the new year. I have done so in four important areas for me. Furthermore, as a Member of Parliament, I do not need to apologize for setting frameworks, setting hooks and thereby trying to influence the longer term policy. I think that's exactly my role.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u445	For the sake of clarity, I don't want to deprive anyone of their right to file a motion, but it's pretty common for you to ask them to do it first. If they say no, you try to do it with a ruling from the Chamber, but I might be old-fashioned at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u446	Thank you. I didn't hear a question right away. Perhaps it was more of an encouragement, an encouragement to the cabinet to agree to a number of motions. You were at the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u447	Sure. Plenty of moves, I'd say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u448	Thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u449	Mr. Chairman. Of me also four flaming motions, all needed to give cabinet policy even more focus and direction. I liked the debate. Thank you. I'm curious about the growth letter. It was about prosperity growth, innovation, digitalization. There was a lot of enthusiasm from the two leaders. Thank you. Three of my four motions stem from my input. The first is an advance on the growth debate on the basis of the ESC opinion on participation. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the proportion of women at the top in the Netherlands has increased over the last decade, but at a very slow pace;]] [[Whereas a fairer distribution of top positions contributes to greater equality of opportunity in society and ensures that talent that is currently largely unused is given greater scope to develop;]] [[Whereas the ESC has presented a broad-based and well-founded opinion on "Diversity in the Summit" in which social partners themselves make proposals to bring more women into the top of the business world, including a binding quota for the Supervisory Board (Rvc) of listed companies;]] [[calls on the government to take the measures contained in the ESC opinion to increase the number of women at the business summit in full,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Verhoeven and Mr Geluk-Poortvliet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-55]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u450	Then I have a motion on speed behind the cabinet's growth aspirations. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the cabinet wishes to strengthen the earning capacity of the Netherlands;]] [[Considering that the Cabinet takes various measures to this end, including the establishment of a fund, and that the Cabinet sets out a strategy in the growth agenda;]] [[Whereas the competitiveness of the Netherlands is under pressure in a rapidly changing world;]] [[whereas the cabinet should show momentum plus ambition and take action;]] [[calls on the government to act as quickly as possible and to kick-start strengthening the growth capacity of the Dutch economy,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Verhoeven and Mr Wiersma. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-56]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u451	A question from Mr Van der Lee.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u452	I would like to know what this kick-start should be, unlike the announced growth agenda and the development of the investment fund. What exactly is that kickstart?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u453	I like the question. Of course, I find it curious that the opposition is now asking the coalition why we are controlling the government so closely. Of course, it's a bit surprising. It's like they think it's a little crazy for the coalition to come up with motions and questions and incentives. I come to Mr Van der Lee's question, specifically on this motion. I noticed in the way we talk about the different parts of the future growth agenda, the investment fund and also the growth letter that there are a lot of discs and layers in it, that there is a lot of time taken for it. I want a spa in the ground as soon as possible. So my colleague from the VVD, Mr Wiersma, he is not speaking now, but he is involved in the other parts of the economic budget................................................................................................................................................... So I just want a spa in the ground fast. That is what I have put forward in this motion by the word 'kickstart'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u454	Well, look. The cabinet was so quick with this idea that they hadn't even worked it out when they recorded it in the Millions Note. A timetable has also been announced. That's what the Cabinet is following. So this is really an empty motion. This has nothing to do with sharp control and doesn't add anything. It's totally unnecessary. I therefore assume that the Minister will advise against this motion, in accordance with the agreements made with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u455	Thank you. Short reaction by Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u456	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. We'll see what the Minister says about it. But the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and European Democrats and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and European Democrats, two groups which control the government, consider this motion necessary. It is up to Mr Van der Lee to give his review of this. I am merely saying that this motion is not about the content, but about the pace that we have to make, about the content that is currently being worked on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u457	I am beginning to understand the confusion between myself and, in any case, the D66 Group. I do not believe that motions are a means of checking. That's what you're asking a question for. Motions are a means of correcting the cabinet, but there must be something to correct. Otherwise, they wouldn't make much sense.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u458	Thank you. I didn't hear a question directly, so I suggest that...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u459	Well, wait a minute, Mr. Chairman. I am not going to hear all the comments from the opposition without saying anything about it. I'll decide what means I use to control the government, Mr. Futselaar. And it seems to me that as a chamber, we shouldn't be catching each other flying over how we control the government. I think it is very fashionable of you to want fewer motions, but the SP has never contributed to fewer motions. The SP is a party that constantly submits all sorts of motions of censure, in the control and independence of the Chamber. And now the coalition is doing it and Mr. Futselaar is standing in front of the interrupting microphone! I think that's a bit of a weird attitude. Mr Van der Lee has just given me the opportunity to talk about it, because it is in line with that. And Mr Moorlag is also here now; will we just be a little normal as a Chamber and just let everyone do their job instead of catching flies over the second-term trial, at 10:12? How do we feel about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u460	It is 10 past 12 because the coalition has so far tabled 24 motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u461	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u462	That is considerably more, Mr President, I would like to say here, than the opposition. And I think you should consider yourself a coalition. In fact, we sometimes table motions, five in this debate, because we want something different than the cabinet, because we have a different direction. You can argue about that. But the moment you do things like review questions in a year... You don't do that by motion, do you? Then you're... Then you're making fun of the Chamber, aren't you, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u463	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u464	You're making a fool of yourself. Then let us take this point very seriously, Mr Futselaar, because I agree with you somewhere, but then we will not only be doing it today in this debate on the budget. Then we'll do it over... No, not that little finger, Mr. Fuzzler. Then we'll do it all year round. All over the year, we're going to see how many motions have been tabled by the SP and by D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u465	Good. That sounds like a great challenge to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u466	I know who's lower. I know who's lower!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u467	Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u468	Especially if we look at it over the last ten years, because then we're all low.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u469	Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u470	And we were also in opposition. Well, you've always been in opposition, but that's different.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u471	Mr Moorlag has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u472	I have a question about the substance of this motion. Is the substance of Mr Verhoeven's rejection of the lack of pace and speed of the cabinet?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u473	Well, I don't disapprove of anything. I'm just asking for more emergency. I think the idea of an investment fund and a growth agenda is fantastic. I'm just afraid that if we set it up this way, we might have it done after this cabinet period or just before. And I just want to speed it up. A coalition party that wants to move fast behind the cabinet is a dualist party that is trying to get together with the VVD in this case to speed it up. Spa in the ground!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u474	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u475	That would be anyone in this... I expect everyone to... You will see, on Tuesday you will all vote in favour of this motion and you will all be pleased that in two years' time there will be more jobs and the Netherlands in the world will be able to move forward a bit. That's what this motion is for.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u476	Thank you. I suggest you read your next motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u477	I'm starting to doubt whether I should file them, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u478	You don't have to! You don't have to, you don't have to! Your time is running.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u479	'Cause, of course, I'm terrified of the peer reviews. 'Cause it's not the least reviews I'm getting tonight. While I'm just one of those coalition spokesmen who's just trying to control the cabinet. Also with this motion, Chairman: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the SAPAI Office, the Strategic Action Plan for Artificial Intelligence, has launched and the Dutch AI coalition has expressed the wish to invest heavily in AI, i.e. 1 billion euros of public funds over seven years;]] [[Whereas this is crucial for Dutch competitiveness and future prosperity;]] [[whereas the money comes partly from generic non-branded instruments (e.g. pps, WBSO, MIT) and partly from investment programmes and funds still to be completed, and therefore the Court has virtually no vision and control over them;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to make the annual CI investments transparent and ex post controllable annually,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Verhoeven and Mr Amhaouch. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-57]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u480	It is indeed one of my stronger works lately, Mr. Chairman. By the way, I often get e-mails that I don't file any motions. People are worried if I'm trying, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u481	I suggest you file your final motion for today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u482	Yes. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas large technology companies have a high degree of market power due, inter alia, to network effects, data collection and early acquisition of competitors;]] [[Whereas the enforcement of interoperability of social media can promote competition in this market;]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibilities of enforcing interoperability of social media and to inform the Court of Justice in the first quarter of 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Verhoeven. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-58]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u483	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Minister spoke cheerfully and optimisticly about the energy agreement. When you ask critical questions about that, you almost get the feeling that you're spoiling the party, but the PvdA Group has genuine concerns about the feasibility and feasibility of the Climate Agreement. Is there enough maneuverability in it if plans don't work out? Unfortunately, we'll see that again and again in gas extraction. Are there enough alternatives? We'll talk a lot about that. When it comes to using biomass, the PvdA Group believes that we should also look at the alternatives. Sustainable use of biomass is desirable, but is there sufficient volume available? Will you at some point not switch to parts when it comes to using biomass? Think, for example, of small-scale power stations. That's why we've got the next few motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the extraction and use of part of the biomass for energy generation have harmful effects and are controversial;]] [[Whereas the PBL and the ESC are to deliver an opinion on the use of biomass;]] [[calls on the Government to clarify the social costs and benefits of using the SDE+ for the use of biomass compared to the use of energy-saving measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Moorlag and Mr Van der Lee. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-59]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u484	Second motion, Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas shopping via the Internet offers many advantages and conveniences to consumers, but also has adverse socio-economic effects due to a lack of market organisation;]] [[Whereas better organisation of the market can lead to greater social justice, better economic efficiency and a better ecological balance;]] [[calls on the Government to explore and inform the Court of Justice of the steps and measures taken to improve the organisation of the market and, if necessary, to carry out investigations,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas shopping centres in towns and regional centres are in a state of permanent poverty and decline;]] [[Whereas the quality of these areas is important for the quality of life and the entrepreneurial environment and should be brought to a higher level;]] [[calls on the Government to develop an approach and follow-up to the Retail Agenda in consultation with retail organisations and co-governments,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the tourism sector is of great importance for the Dutch economy and employment, but is not given sufficient attention at a national level in relation to the economic importance of the sector;]] [[Whereas a better distribution and exploitation of the economic opportunities of tourism is an important factor;]] [[calls on the Government, on the basis of the opinion of the Environment and Infrastructure Council, to develop a state vision and policy on tourism,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-60]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Moorlag and Mr Van Brenn. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-61]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-62]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u485	Mr. Chairman. I hope that the Secretary of State will act sincerely as market leader on the delivery market, the webshops, because I think that is incredibly important. There are many problems and bottlenecks, which also extend to Infrastructure and Water State and Social Affairs, but it is essentially a question of market organisation. I really hope the Secretary of State is going to do something about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u486	Thank you. I am happy to give the floor to Mr Bruins.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u487	Mr. Chairman. I thank the two rulers. I would like to thank the official staff for the response and night work that has been in it. I would also like to thank those in the public gallery who are still interested and listening in. I missed the answer to the question of whether you can classify, define, frame family businesses, but I have heard that that question is actually in the Amhaouch/Palland motion. I assume that, if that motion is adopted, that question will be answered automatically at a later date. I have three motions. The first one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that for new biomass plants a capacity of up to 14,9 MW is sometimes chosen because an environmental permit is required above 15 MW;]] [[Whereas there is growing concern about biomass plants, in particular where they are planned in or near residential areas;]] [[Whereas it is desirable that there should be timely participation of the environment in the planning of new biomass plants, irrespective of their capacity, and that municipalities should have a better spatial control tool;]] [[calls on the Government to examine whether it is effective to re-mandatory an environmental permit for biomass installations with a capacity of less than 15 MW, and to inform the House of Representatives in the summer of 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Bruins, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Sienot and Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-63]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u488	I would like to thank the Secretary of State for the tight measures around the Van Swinden Lab, but I want them even tighter. Let me not use the word 'curatele', but the Van Swinden Lab will, as far as I am concerned, be under the magnifying glass of this Chamber when the next two motions are adopted. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Dutch high-tech industry is deeply concerned about the work of the Van Swinden Laboratory;]] [[noting that an increase in unexplained health complaints to date has been recorded within the premises of Van Swinden Laboratorium;]] [[calls on the Government to report to the SZW Inspection in the short term that there are concerns about working conditions within the VSL temperature laboratory,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-64]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u489	From the last motion, I will only read the operative part for the sake of time. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Calls on the Government to examine what unique scientific equipment and standards in the VSL should be publicly owned in order to ensure and inform about the quality, continuity and availability of traceable measurement standards;]] [[invites the government to make efforts to maintain knowledge and expertise in metrology in the Netherlands and at the Van Swinden Laboratory and to report on this in the annual report on the knowledge base,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bruins. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-65]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u490	I will amend the text of the motion through the Registry and add the recitals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u491	Yes, thank you. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u492	Mr President, thank you. Thank you to the Minister for replying and also thank you for correcting his comments on an opinion document in which it was a scientific issue. Mr. Chairman. The hour You were in 1972 or in 1960 if you like. The CBS calculated that our economy was then in balance with the principles of the broad prosperity that we now apply. The ecological boundaries of the planet are now being structurally exceeded. The climate crisis demands that we learn to think eco-centrally. Man is part of the rich and complex ecosystem with respect for the intrinsic values of nature. So the climate crisis also requires us to redesign our economy. In this climate crisis, Nobel laureate Stiglitz calls for a war economy, an economy aimed at reducing CO2 emissions to save our lives. Let us call it a 'climate economy' more friendly, but with the same objective: to achieve CO2 reduction as soon as possible. Some people talk about a moon shot. And then let that be the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas in a climate economy, man is part of a rich and complex ecosystem with respect for the intrinsic value of nature;]] [[calls on the Government to use speed of CO reduction as a guiding criterion when taking climate action,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-66]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u493	Mr. Chairman. Our current ambitions do not match a 1.5°C target. It's time to step up those ambitions. Hence the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to raise the Dutch CO reduction target for 2030 to 70% compared to 1990,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-67]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u494	Mr President, the next one is coming soon. Take your time and I'll do the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u495	No, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u496	Mr. Chairman. It is clear that not all spirits are ready for this 70% target. If this motion does not succeed, then the least we can do is to bring this objective into line with what more and more European countries are advocating. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to raise the Dutch CO reduction target for 2030 to at least 55% compared to 1990,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Raan. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-68]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u497	Mr. Chairman. The Party for Animals has always put forward solutions to achieve these goals. These are often of a structural nature: from fiscal greening through sustainability in education to the transition of agriculture. On that last point, the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that more forest and nature will benefit from fighting the climate crisis and biodiversity crisis;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how agricultural land can be further converted into forest and nature reserve,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Raan, Van der Lee, Futselaar, Öztürk and Van Haga.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-69]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u498	Mr. Chairman. Finally, a few motions on biomass. You can do something else now, because this will take a while. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, according to research conducted by DNV GL on behalf of the Ministry of LenW, biomass plants emit 20% more nitrogen, fine dust and carbon than coal plants and twice as much as gas-fired plants;]] [[Whereas there is a risk of a proliferation of small biomass plants, which ensures that demand for biomass exceeds available supply and stimulates imports of uncertified or poorly certified biomass from abroad;]] [[Whereas biomass plants are still subsidised through SDE+;]] [[calls on the Government to stop granting new subsidies to biomass plants immediately,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Raan, Beckerman and Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-70]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u499	I'm putting in a final sprint, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Having regard to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, 13) stated that there should be no proliferation of biomass plants;]] [[having noted that in reply to written questions (2019D46736), the Cabinet indicated that local authorities could consider all "renewable" options, including biomass plants;]] [[considers that this decentralised decision-making is conducive to wild growth;]] [[calls on the Government to maintain national control over the quantity (and total capacity) of biomass plants;]] [[calls on the Government to continue its efforts to minimise biomass power plants and to indicate in concrete terms how it will prevent the proliferation of biomass plants,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that social, scientific and political resistance to biomass is growing;]] [[noting that the PBL and the ESC will issue opinions on biomass in the short term;]] [[considers that a review of the policy is necessary;]] [[calls on the Government to review its biomass policy, actively involve the Court and until then not take any steps leading to an increase in the use of biomass,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Raan and Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-72]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Raan, Beckerman and Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-71]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u500	Mr. Chairman. The last motion, and then one more comment. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the government intends to spend many billions of funding on "renewable" techniques, such as biomass, which will be deployed temporarily;]] [[calls on the Government to use its grant instruments as far as possible to promote "final" renewable techniques,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Raan, Beckerman and Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-73]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u501	Mr President, I believe that...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u502	What's your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u503	I don't think it's going well with the handout. I should have given this motion. Maybe we should get it back, because that's where the text is... Excuse me, my mistake. Mr. Chairman. The last point I want to make is that I would like to award a prize. He's going to Mr Wiebes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u504	Oh! I'm so happy about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u505	In his rhetorical mirror palace, Mr Wiebes really gave the most fantastic answer I have read. I'd like to read it to you. We asked: when is the Minister for Climate going to call the Minister for Infrastructure to order when it comes to aviation? And what does the Minister write? He really gives the best answer: "Your question will be passed on to the Minister of Infrastructure and Water State."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u506	I'm curious to hear the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u507	Fantastic. We wait for the answer. It's unsurpassable. I hope that this motion chaos will be sorted out and that that will be done by the very competent hands of the Griffin. I'm sorry for the confusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u508	Thank you. I see another question coming from Mr Verhoeven.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u509	Since Mr Van Raan is now awarding prizes, I thought: perhaps it would be good if, as a point of order, I also gave a few prizes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u510	5.652 is the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u511	Exactly. There's been an ultimate motion champion in the House of Representatives since we've been in Parlis, and that's the SP with 5,647 motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u512	No, 5.652.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u513	In the period Rutte III there were 1,227. In all cases, however you count, the SP is the ultimate frontrunner in filing motions. In view of Mr Futselaar's contribution, I thought it appropriate to mention that. I don't think that's bad at all. You can do that yourself. But you were the one who talked to us about that, and you're the one who does it most often. That's for the Acts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u514	It's been noted. I shall now give the floor very briefly to Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u515	From these now 5.652 motions we can see that the SP Group has a lot of problems with the policy of this government. Then one night when I see a lot of such motions from the coalition, I ask: are you okay? That's all I asked, and that's a question I still have.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u516	I have not heard any questions in the direction of Mr Van Raan, and I am sure he has no need to respond to them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u517	Shame!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u518	No, no shame at all. I am happy to give the floor to Mrs Van Brenn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u519	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At this point in time, I sometimes wonder if colleagues have anything better to do. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the number of people unable to pay the energy bill is expected to increase significantly;]] [[Whereas it helps people with little money from the ditch if the amount to be paid is increased by collection costs;]] [[Considering that in most cases it is not unwilling to pay the energy bill and therefore that people should not be treated as such;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that, in the event of late payment of the energy bill, no additional costs are passed on to prevent people from getting into any further trouble,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the fact that sustainability loans are granted in many municipalities, with an age limit of 75 years;]] [[having regard to the fact that this limit is arbitrary, since applicants of any age may die before payment of the loan in question;]] [[having regard to the possibility of including a uniform provision in the conditions for the repayment of loans after the applicant's premature death;]] [[Whereas everyone should contribute equally to sustainability, regardless of age, and that unequal conditions create the appearance of age discrimination;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with the Housing Fund, to remove the age limit of 75 years for sustainability loans,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that, according to Ecorys Research Office, the number of people unable or difficult to pay the energy bill could rise to 1.5 million households in the coming years in 2030;]] [[considering that affordable energy is a basic requirement;]] [[calls on the government to make every effort to ensure that the number of households struggling to pay the energy bill does not increase,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Brenk and Mr Van Otterloo. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-74]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Brenk and Mr Van Otterloo. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-75]] [[This motion was proposed by members Van Brenn, Van Otterloo, Moorlag, Öztürk, Beckerman and Van der Lee.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-76]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u520	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u521	Thank you very much, Mrs Van Brenn. I would now like to give the floor to Mr Öztürk.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u522	Mr. Chairman. I'll file the following motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that start-ups make a positive contribution to the economy;]] [[Whereas start-ups often need credit and cannot always go to a bank for this purpose;]] [[whereas the alternative provided by EZK charges Qredit's high interest rates of up to 8.75%, which discourages business;]] [[calls on the Secretary of State to consider whether, and how, the interest rate of Qredits can be reduced,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that discrimination is still a major social problem;]] [[Whereas the childcare allowance affair in Eindhoven and its surroundings appears to be ethnically profiling by the Tax Administration of Entrepreneurs;]] [[considers that, because of the principle of equality, it is undesirable to have ethnic profiling in the entrepreneurial market, whereby supervisory bodies control entrepreneurs with a migrant background more often and more closely;]] [[calls on the Government to investigate the ethnic profile of entrepreneurs, with emphasis on the role of the Tax Administration and the FIOD,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that discrimination is still a major social problem;]] [[Considering that the public authorities tender some EUR 73 billion in goods and services;]] [[Whereas there should be equal opportunities for all and no group should be lagging behind in advance;]] [[Whereas there are signs that entrepreneurs with a migration background are less likely to receive public procurement than other groups;]] [[considers that this is unacceptable;]] [[calls on the Secretary of State to investigate procurement practice and to consider whether or not discrimination exists there, and to consider how this can be countered,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Dutch shopping street is having a difficult time, with declining numbers of visitors and declining conversions, and increasingly empty positions;]] [[Whereas shopping streets are important for the quality of life of municipalities and employment, and currently offer 800,000 jobs;]] [[Whereas active management of shopping streets, from the municipality or from retail associations, can make a major contribution to keeping shopping streets viable;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how, from the government's point of view, with expertise or financial resources, municipalities can be helped to keep their shopping streets viable,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Dutch pension funds manage EUR 1,600 billion in assets and then manage it abroad for 88%, while not so long ago this was 50%;]] [[whereas pension funds do so on the basis that diversification of investments is necessary for a good return;]] [[Whereas there is no evidence that diversification over more than 20 different investments will generate additional returns;]] [[Whereas pension funds are managed by trade unions and employers and can also be asked to contribute to the Dutch economy;]] [[calls on the government to consult with the social partners to invest a greater share of pension assets in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-77]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-78]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-79]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk and Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-80]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Öztürk and Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-81]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u523	Mr. Chairman. I've got 50 seconds. I'll give it back to those who need it this time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u524	I would like to thank you very much and finally give the floor to Mr Van Haga.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u525	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First of all, thank you for the answers, both in writing and orally. They were very enlightening. Mr. Chairman. Last Friday was the day of the entrepreneur. I saw several MPs making selfies with entrepreneurs. Twitter flooded with statements of support to our entrepreneurs. If I analyse the last two years, there has actually been little understanding for entrepreneurs. The accumulation of measures of taxation and rules, which I have already mentioned, has been enormous. The political wind that is now blowing is not positive for entrepreneurs. That is why I call for the accumulation of measures to be seen and for entrepreneurs to be left alone from now on. Why don't you just let the entrepreneur take care of himself? And let the government be a little more modest and a little more helpful. That is why, together with my colleague and fellow entrepreneur Öztürk, I will table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas several ministries take measures which affect the Dutch entrepreneurs individually;]] [[Whereas it is useful to have an overview of the accumulation of measures;]] [[calls on the Government to review all the measures introduced by this cabinet which have affected the Dutch entrepreneur in a positive and negative sense,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga and Mr Öztürk. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-82]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u526	Mr. Chairman. According to the Minister, the long time it takes to issue permits for geothermal energy is due, among other things, to the problem of nitrogen, whereas geothermal energy is a sustainable technique. The lead time really needs to be shorter. That's why I'm filing the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas geothermal energy is very durable;]] [[Whereas the authorisation process is currently taking a very long time;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how the time limit for issuing geothermal permits can be accelerated,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-83]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u527	Mr. Chairman. My question about the sustainability of monuments was not about monuments in the possession of municipalities. We all know that municipal property is the worst-maintained property of all monuments. No, these are buildings that are designated as state monuments or municipal monuments and which are owned by private individuals or companies. These owners want to make their property more sustainable, but they run into the archaic and rigid rules of the municipal government. That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas at present national monuments and municipal monuments are very difficult to preserve;]] [[Whereas it is important to make our monuments more sustainable;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how obstacles to the sustainability of monuments can be removed,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-84]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u528	Thanks to the Secretary of State for the answer on the privacy of entrepreneurs in the UBO register. It is good to hear that the safety and privacy of entrepreneurs will be taken into account. It is also good that the VAT exemption for online spending below €22 will be abolished as of 1 January 2021. It is also good that the World Postal Union talks about the standardisation of shipping costs. Excellent measures, but that doesn't mean we're here yet. For example, we should include import tariffs in these actions. Under €150, nothing is being paid at the moment. The follow-up question is of course: who controls that value at all? That's why the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas there is currently an uneven playing field which gives the Dutch retail sector unfair competition from foreign online shops;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how to restore fair competition by explicitly including VAT on imports, import taxes on foreign products and the Postal Convention,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Members Van Haga and Aartsen. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-85]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u529	Mr. Chairman. Finally, a motion on the calculation of nitrogen from the old use phase with the construction phase. I know that this dossier is covered by the Ministry of Agriculture, but to keep it going, I'm going to put it in here anyway. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the nitrogen crisis is causing serious damage to the Dutch economy, in particular to the agricultural sector and the construction sector;]] [[Whereas, at present, in the case of new buildings, the old use phase should not be offset by the construction phase;]] [[calls on the Government to consider whether this can be adjusted in the calculation model,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Van Haga. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIII-86]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u530	I'm done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u531	Thank you. Then we have reached the end of the second term on the side of the Chamber. The directors have indicated that they need fifteen minutes to make a judgment on 67 motions, if I see it correctly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u532	I would like to inform you that we are suspending for 20 minutes or as much shorter as we are until the rulers are ready. But keep in mind about 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u533	The next item is the second term of office. There have been 67 motions tabled. I call on the rulers to make an assessment of this. I ask them to state the song clearly and then the judgment, because then I don't have to repeat it. The Minister has the floor. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u534	Mr. Chairman. There were also a few questions. I'll do it first. Two questions have been asked to me about reinforcements. It's gone to BZK, but I've always had a lot of trouble letting things go. I'm gonna get involved in that right now and think, "Why didn't I hear that?" Well, that makes sense, because that's what BZK is doing now. So the reinforcements are in BZK. This also means that the dashboard, the completion of the dashboard and the commitments on it must be made by BZK. Although I have really interfered with the dashboard, I have to refer to the AO for this. The school program is also running. This is covered by the BZK and that is what is being done. That's what sessions are about this week. People are talking to municipalities and schools. My proposal is to do the same in the AO. It's hard for me to let go. Then Mr Harbers asked three questions. On his first question, I have a proper answer, but I've searched for it. That's what he's gonna get later. Yeah, I'm not good with paper. His second question was about the Joint Project Mechanism. How can we use that? I think that is a sensible question. A "moratorium" has placed that word on it now I may also use it once from the Chamber. I think that's finished. I'd love to look into this very much. It seems very useful to me. I'll admit it. In the case of the adjustable power, he also requested a useful view after 2030 in the direction of 2050. That's a useful request. I will take that up on that occasion in that letter. Mr Van der Lee says that not only does he say that, but he says that with the authority of the General Court of Auditors, the point is that... Let me put it this way: the department of EZK does not seem to be in agreement with the Court of Auditors or to be in complete control of what is meant there. It's possible. My proposal is that I should first find out very well with the Court of Auditors. I'm sure something very sensible will come out of that. That is the sensible thing to do, then, in the direction of Mr Van der Lee, as something that needs to be done. Can I do it like this? After each opening, something is published about the cumulative effects. We are quite impressed ourselves, but not everyone is still impressed. So I'm gonna do some work on it. Mrs Mulder and Mr Sienot want to know when I am going to talk to the energy companies about tariffs. The most logical moment would be when they have set their rates, because then you can appeal to them, but that is only after the ACM journey. I don't think that's convenient for timing. So I suggest that I talk to them before they set the rates. That means I must have made those calls before Christmas. I'm on my way to the motions now. From the loose hand I say that there are just between five and ten motions that really belong to another ruler. I think they should also be submitted to the other govern ment. Otherwise I would advise them, but that is also a shame, because there are all kinds of thoughts about it, there is work in it and there are initiatives in it. I will therefore state in those cases that the motion must be submitted to another govern ment. Otherwise, I'm gonna be a bit of a weird messenger and we're gonna get a huge paperwork. That is already the case with the motion in part No. 21 by Mr Graus and Mr Van Haga on the effects of nitrogen and pfas. The coordinating department is LNV. I would ask the authors to table this motion elsewhere. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to dissuade the motion. But let's not do that to the motion and file it where it should be filed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u535	On several points that I made in my first term, I said that I want them to be embraced by several departments. So you're gonna lay it down with other people, too. Moreover, it is always a request to the government. That's literally what it says: "requests the government." So I can certainly put it with this shepherd of Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u536	Motions may always be submitted, but this is also the budgetary treatment of EZK. We are not talking about it; this is not the policy of EZK. Of course nitrogen affects everything, but the coordinating director is the minister of LNV. So once again my request to Mr Graus to table this motion where it belongs. The motion in part No. 22 by Mr Kops I must advise against. The motion in part No. 23 of Mr Kops I must advise against. The motion in part No. 24 of Mr Kops and Mr Wilders I must advise against. The motion in part No. 31 by Mr Harbers, Mrs Mulder, Mr Sienot and Mrs Dik-Faber on an inquiry into SF6. The motion in part No. 32, which is part of the amendment on ISDE and SMEs, by Mr Harbers, Mrs Mulder, Mr Sienot and Mrs Dik-Faber, I leave to the House. Then the motion to part No. 33 by Mr Van der Lee. It says here, "exploitation grant." I can imagine all kinds of support if I can at least read that it will not be the SDE at the moment. But I know what he wants. If this is allowed by any other means through a certain form of support, possibly not even through an operating subsidy, then I will leave the motion for a resolution to the House. I'm looking in his direction, waiting and waiting.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u537	It's okay. I shall then withdraw my amendment to part No. 17 in, because I promised.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u538	The Van der Lee amendment (Doc. 17) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u539	Mr. Chairman. At the motion in part No. 34 I'm gonna...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u540	Before you go any further, Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u541	The Minister goes through it like a Speedy Gonzales, but these are essential matters. If I put this down to our Deputy Prime Minister, he's going to say: I'm not going to do research with SMEs or the Netherlands, for example, because that means you have to be with EZK. Everyone always sits on top of each other like that. It gives me really spontaneous diarrhea, because it's the same every time. I'm laying down financial and economic matters here. It's in this department, too. It's about economics. It's literally in there. So that research really needs to be embraced by EZK.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u542	You have heard the Minister's opinion and I think that the verdict remains that way. But I understand your point, Mr. Graus. The Minister has arrived at the motion in part No. 34. A lot of motions have been tabled, Minister, so maybe...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u543	Yes, but I have to tell you about this motion. I've shown a lot of substance. I supported the working hypothesis that this could be appropriate. But institutionally, I'm gonna be a lot more blunt. If we now explicitly examine which of the possible thousand things could ever qualify for an investment fund, we will continue to do so, because then we will also have the extended North/South line, Schiphol at sea and so on. I just don't think it's the right time. I would ask Mr Van der Lee to hold this motion until after the publication of the letter from the Minister of Finance and from me on the investment fund. Otherwise, I'm gonna have to dissuade him. My working hypothesis remains, but this is my institutional judgment. We're ahead of something that's not there yet, and that doesn't make much sense. I am looking very closely at Mr Van der Lee to see if he is prepared to hold on to the thing until after the letter has been published.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u544	I see Mr Van der Lee nodding in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u545	Then the motion to part No. 35. If I may read the motion in such a way that it is a national energy infrastructure plan for, among other things, storage and transport of national interest, I shall allow this motion to be judged by Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u546	Mr Van der Lee nods in agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u547	Then there is another motion which cannot be completely explained without explanation: the motion in part No. 36 on the payback period of seven years. The year and a half that I have really come to a climate agreement with infinite flexibility and occasionally necessary inventiveness is a different time than today. First it needed great flexibility to get it, now it is to get it strictly a matter of keeping an agreement. We are the Empire, we have an agreement with I know how many parties and the only way to succeed in this is to stick to it and not to let the SMEs all drop out on very important points within six months, for example. I'm not gonna do that. I need the SMEs badly, I don't want them to drop out. I took the lyrics. If it were possible under the agreement, I would be lenient about it. I have the text before me here, and unfortunately I cannot be lenient about it. It is quite clear that there is nowhere to be read that there could be an extension to seven years. Things have been announced in all kinds of other ways, but I must therefore discourage this motion. The termination of the Climate Agreement will not come from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u548	Well, then I have one more question. In the agreement it is stated that it would become part of it. But what forms of energy generation can be recouped within five years? Can the Minister inform us about this at another time?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u549	I don't know now, but I'm sure we're going to see that all of these opportunities are coming. Solar panels plummet hard in price. There will be times when five years will not be weird at all and it will also be an extremely attractive option for SMEs, which would then be covered by this law. But that's at the time. I'd be a little hypocritical if I were to say that we're all gonna do some nice research for peace at one o'clock in the morning, but we're not gonna do anything with it afterwards. I'm not. I've read it for sure, but it doesn't fit in. Other things fit in, but this doesn't. Then the motion to part No. 37. I must advise against it, but that was already to be found in the debate. The motion in part No. Mrs Mulder's 38 concerns hydrogen and wind energy. Judgment Room. Then we have the motion in part no. 39 by Mrs Mulder. Also judgment room. Then we have the motion in part no. 40 by Mrs Mulder. It doesn't sit still. Also judgment room. Then we have the motion in part no. 47. It asks me to disclose company confidential information, the nature of tax information. I can't do that. That's why I have to discourage the motion. The motion in part No. 48 is for BZK. That's silly to say, because that wasn't BZK a month ago. I lead this through and say, on behalf of the Minister of State, "judge Chamber." I can do that with the motion in part No. 49 don't. This has been in contact with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but I would like to suggest to the applicant that she hold this motion until after the AO Mining Groningen, because then the debate with the Minister of Foreign Affairs has taken place. I can't now be self-sufficient policy of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u550	When you put it that way, it makes sense, doesn't it? But when we received this budget, this issue was on this budget, Article 5 of the ECA budget. On the evening before the budget debate EZK we received a letter about a departmental land consolidation. That was impossible to prepare by MPs. That was the night before the BZK budget!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u551	I see it. That's a unique point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u552	Mr President, the Minister may find it very funny. But we immediately called the bell, because reinforcement is an extremely important subject for us. We have called the bell to say that we do want a good debate on this. This isn't about small money. This is very deep in human lives, but it is also about money. That means you have to do it in the budget. I find it sad, however, that the government does not come to a budget debate until the evening with "Oh yes, we are going to do it in another ministry. So sorry Chamber, but there's not a moment when you can normally go into debate." That's why I just want an answer. I called the doorbell about that right away. The clerk knows about it. I don't think it's possible for us to move it back to an AO now, because then we're not gonna go over what we buried.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u553	Your point is clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u554	This one wasn't so bright on my retina. This is an extremely good argument. I told you on the previous motion, I found it faint, but I've only lost that file for a month. Then I find it weird not to answer it. I would therefore be inclined to reply here. The point is that I'm not getting an answer from the Department of BZK right now. People are still thinking about what should be in what form. I would have to advise him on substantive grounds, and I don't know if that's the intention.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u555	Of course, that is not the intention. We also have a written round for such a budget and estimates on that budget for strengthening it have been made. We simply asked how many homes are involved. You estimate an amount and you obviously have an idea about it, but we never received an answer. Well, that dashboard just stays out. That would all be in-house. I understand that we do not want to have a debate on this at 1:30 a.m., but it is a problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u556	Maybe I can make a suggestion for the motion in part No. 49. I think the Minister has indicated that the argument is valid. Perhaps we could ask the Minister to give an exceptional written response to this motion. After all, we will not vote on the motions until next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u557	Okay. That's a... Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Yeah, yeah, that's a good one. I'm gonna make an effort.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u558	Now there is no formal judgment, but the Minister is telling us...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u559	The chairman saved us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u560	...that there will be a letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u561	Yes. I'll inform BZK and leave it for the...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u562	...vote...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u563	...to know the moods. That's next week...?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u564	...Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u565	Yeah, yeah, yeah. I'm gonna try. The story is strong and I always have sympathy for it. The motion in part No. 50 is also a motion by Mrs Beckerman. There is a demand for fair compensation. The lawyers tell me that must be compensation. If that's "compensation," I'll give him a ruling Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u566	I'll adjust it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u567	The motion in part No. 51 of Sienot and Dik-Faber is Judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. 52 of Sienot and Mulder is also Chamber of Judgement. Then there's Sienot's motion, where he's worried he's gonna have to take a shower at 12oC.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u568	I'd like a number.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u569	That's the motion in part No. 53. He's gonna get judgment, Room. The motion-Sienot/Rehoeven in part No. 54 also gets judgment room. The motion in part No. 56 is about a kickstart. That has so far been a parliamentary undefined concept, but I still tend to give Chamber. The motion in part No. 59 on biomass. Here a kind of choice is introduced by Mr Moorlag: either thistem or thattem. But sometimes it's one thing and sometimes it's another. I must discourage the motion in this form. The Bruins motion c.s. in piece No. 63 is about an instrument that is in line with the one discussed, so I leave it to the Chamber to judge. I would add that we have to ask ourselves whether the term 'growing anxiety' does not apply in particular to this Chamber. With the operative part, I can live well. The motion in part No. Mr Van Raan (PPE). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. 67. I'm very curious to see what the Danes are going to write down in their plan. Then the motion to part No. 68. Mr Van Raan knows how we feel about that. That is what we are trying to do at European level and not alone. I'm gonna have to dissuade him. The motion in part No. 69 concerns LNV, mainly in conversation with provinces and municipalities. The request is to submit it to LNV. I cannot say anything sensible about that and I must advise against the motion. He has to come to another table or he'll be dissuaded. The motion in part No. 70 I advise, as well as the motion in part No. 71. The motion in part No. Seventy-two, I also advise against it. "As little as possible" is not necessarily the most cost-effective mix and that is what the cabinet is aiming for. Furthermore, I deny that there is wild growth, so I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 73 is about the final renewable techniques. We also need intermediate techniques on our way there. So I'm gonna have to dissuade it. The motion in part No. 74 is an SZW motion. My request is to submit the motion there. The motion in part No. 75 is a BZK motion. My request is to submit the motion there. The motion in part No. 76 is an SZW motion. The motion in part No. 78 is a finance move. The motion in part No. 81 is an SZW and Finance Motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u570	Now you're going too fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u571	The motions on the documents Nos. 74, 75, 76, 78 and 81 belong on another table. Then I'll have to request that they be filed elsewhere, but if they stay here, I'll advise against those motions. The same applies to the motion in part No. 84, a BZK motion, and for the motion in part No. 86, an LNV motion. Then I'll be ready for the motion in part No. 83. I'll pass judgment on that, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u572	Will you finish this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u573	Do you want me to be clear again?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u574	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u575	It's going too fast. Apologies. I'm gonna do it nicely. The Van Brenk/Van Otterloo motion in part No. 55 is an SZW motion. I'm gonna have to dissuade him or he's gonna be submitted to SZW. The Van Brenk/Van Otterloo motion in part No. 75 is a BZK motion. The Van Brenn c.s. motion. in piece No. 76- is an SZW motion. The Öztürk motion in part No. 78 is a finance move. The Öztürk/Van Haga motion in part No. 78 is an SZW and Finance Motion. The Van Haga motion in part No. 84 is a BZK motion. The Van Haga motion in part No. 86 is an LNV motion. The Van Haga motion in part No. 83 gets judgment, Room.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u576	I was the first to see Mr Van Raan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u577	I was part of the motion in part no. 72 the Minister says that it is a finding that there is proliferation and that he does not agree with it. That's not what the motion says. The motion says that there's a wish from the Chamber not to have excessive growth. It seems that decentralised decision-making can stimulate wild growth. That's something we don't want. Hence the demand for a form of central direction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u578	What number are we talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u579	About No. 72.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u580	The motion in part No. 72. I am going to try to do justice to Mr Van Raan's remark, but then I have to read the motion again. I don't know if the judgment changes. If it had said "how she's going to prevent proliferation," I would have understood. But "the wild growth" suggests that it is already there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u581	I'd be happy to get rid of the word "the."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u582	But "as little biomass plants as possible" is not the government's policy anyway. We act within the framework we have set. We may not agree on these conditions in terms of quantity, but in terms of quality. Within these framework conditions, we look for the most cost-effective mix. That means something other than "as little as possible." So for the substance of the matter, I advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u583	I get that. Then I propose to remove the word 'target' and also the word 'the', because it is specifically about the proliferation that we all do not want. We need to figure out how to prevent it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u584	You have removed my objections to the word 'wild growth' by removing the word 'the', but my objection to the substance remains. Government policy is not the same as what Mr Van Raan calls for in his motion. That's why I'm telling her off.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u585	I'm offering to remove that piece of "as little as possible" because we don't agree on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u586	Oh, wait a minute. Here we go again. We are now negotiating the text. I'll take the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u587	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u588	Number 72, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u589	Requesting the government...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u590	Then what's the motion? Requesting the government...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u591	"Asks the government to indicate in concrete terms how it will prevent proliferation of biomass plants."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u592	However, in order to make that clear, a whole procedure in the Climate Agreement has been agreed, namely by measuring, too, to that extent. In fact, motions have been adopted today to further confirm that. I don't know if I could do that. Let me put it this way...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u593	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u594	...to indicate in concrete terms how they are growing wildly on biomass plants...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u595	And you'll get a prize too, don't forget that!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u596	Nobody wants to grow wild, but what should I do, other than send in the Climate Agreement? 'Cause that's how we're gonna do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u597	I don't think we're getting out. If Mr Van Raan wishes to amend his motion, I suggest that he pass it on. Mrs Van Brenk, you also have a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u598	Secondly, the Minister did not return to a question which he would answer. That's why I filed a motion. The minister says he shouldn't be on his table.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u599	Could we have the number of the motion, please?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u600	It's the motion in part No. 74, on the increases in energy companies. The Minister admits he's going to talk to energy companies. My question is why he can't take this part with him. That would be a gesture, wouldn't it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u601	To talk to the heat grids.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u602	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u603	I am going to talk about charging for heat grids, but not about the collection policy of all energy companies. That's a whole project. All about debt lies with an extremely enthusiastic Secretary of State. That's what this is all about, and I don't have to ride a bike through it. It's true, I had prepared the question, but when the motion came, I thought it would be more convenient to answer it on the basis of the motion. I have now found the answer to Mr Harbers' first question. I don't know the answer out of my head, so I'm gonna need a leaf. He asked about the reuse of oil and gas platforms and their direction. There is a partnership of industry. These were collected in the NOGEPA, together with EBN, which has a share in these platforms. The identification of which infrastructure is eligible for re-use shall be carried out. It is clear that if we roll out Mrs Mulder's plan to transport hydrogen at sea, gas infrastructure can be at our service. The organisation in which EBN and NOGEPA work together to find this out is called NexStep. The name says so. Here's to it. Now I've found the answer and Mr. Harbers is not satisfied.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u604	That's right, because this was the written answer you gave. I had a question in addition to that. You also announce that EZK will be given more direction in the legislative amendment. My request was that you prepare yourself so that there will be more requests from the department. It doesn't just run through NexStep and EBN. You can also go from the department and see what that plan looks like and whether you can further facilitate that with legislation and regulations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u605	We'll have a broad look. Can I make that as a promise?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u606	Thank you. That would have brought you to the end of judging the motions. Then I'd like to give the Secretary of State the opportunity to make her judgement on the remaining motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u607	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't think I've had any more questions. I only had motions. I will now give them a ruling. In the motion in part No. 20 members of Mr Graus and Mr Van Haga are asked to examine whether it fits in with the Strategic Action Plan AI. That is why I leave this motion to the Chamber. Then I have the motion in part no. 25 by Mr Aartsen. I would like to draw his attention to the progress report on interdepartmental regulatory pressure policies, the SME test and the Court's own research that I believe is currently doing on regulatory pressure on entrepreneurs. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber as well. The judgment on the motion in part No. I leave 26 of Mr Aartsen and Mr Bruins to the Chamber, and I would like to say that I am going to look with the most concerned ministries at bottlenecks for family businesses. Then I'll be at the motion in part No. 27 by Mr Aartsen. This is part of the preparation of the SME Action Plan. The Chamber will receive another letter on this matter. That leaves the judgment to the Chamber. Then I have the motion in part no. 28 by Mr Aartsen and Mr Van Haga. This is policy support, as there are conversations with Alibaba, among others, and thus with AliExpress. I shall therefore leave this motion to the Chamber. Then I have the motion in part no. 29. This is certainly an important subject, but it is in the field of the JenV ministry. I would therefore ask Mr Aartsen to hold this motion and to ask the Minister for Justice and Security for an opinion on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u608	I think this came back a few times. Fine. I think JenV's budget will be discussed tomorrow. This can be taken with you. It would be nice if the Secretary of State would send a message to her colleague that this is a very important point for SMEs. That is why we tabled the motion here in the first instance. Then I'll hold the motion on this and we'll file it with the JenV budget tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u609	Secretary of State, are you going to respond?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u610	Yes. The motion begins with the consideration that it is important to fight against organised crime and undermining. That is, of course, an important subject. I understand that the Minister for Legal Protection sent a letter on 31 October on the GDPR which addressed data sharing by companies. In my view, therefore, the Ministry of Justice and Security sees all the importance of this issue, including for entrepreneurs. So I don't think there's any need for an extra stimulus from me. But if Mr Aartsen insists, I would of course always like to point out from Economic Affairs that it is important to see how you can fight organised and undermining crime, also from an entrepreneurial point of view.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u611	Thank you. I have heard Mr Aartsen say that the motion in part No. 29 will be submitted to JenV's budget tomorrow. Does that mean she's being revoked here? That would be the order.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u612	Yeah, then don't hold it, move in.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u613	Since the Aartsen motion (No ) has been withdrawn, has ceased to be the subject of a debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u614	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Then I have the motion in part no. 30 by Mr Aartsen and Mr Verhoeven. As I indicated, I want to work on a Retail Agenda that follows up on the existing Retail Agenda. As far as I am concerned, the statements in the motion are very much in line with that. I therefore leave this motion to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 41, about family businesses and data at the CBS. In 2017, the CBS collected new basic statistical data and provided an initial picture of the importance of family businesses for the economy. I can ask the CBS to repeat this investigation in 2020 and leave the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. Then there's the motion on the manufacturing industry 2.0. I leave the judgment to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 43 actually belongs to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but I can state on their behalf that I can give Chamber judgment. The motion in part No. Forty-four of Mr Amhaouch's judges are Chambers. The motion in part No. 45 deals with the importance of international and regional tourist attractions, particularly in the field of OCW. So that subject actually belongs there. But the operative part is about my jurisdiction and a question to the NBTC. That's why I can leave the judgment to the Chamber. The motion Beckerman c.s. in piece No. 46 has two requests. I read the first request in such a way that I ask the ACM to consider how supervision could be strengthened. The second request is, as far as I am concerned, support for policy. I shall therefore leave this motion to the House. Then I have the Verhoeven/Geluk-Poortvliet motion on part No. 55. The cabinet is working on a response to the ESC opinion. The ESC opinion, which comes from employees and employers, is very important. It is important that there is support for further action. The opinion of the Chamber is also important in this respect. That is why I leave this motion to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 57. With reference to my first-term speech, I leave the judgment to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. Question No 58, by Mr Verhoeven, on the so-called interoperability obligations. I believe that this proposal is part of the measures I proposed in the letter of 17 May. In that sense, therefore, the investigation has already been carried out. But in the first period, I reacted enthusiastically to the ideas put forward by Mr Verhoeven in the pamphlet he presented yesterday, and I said that I believe that, in view of the Chamber agenda, we will be discussing his proposals on competition and platforms before the end of the year. I would therefore ask him to hold this motion in order to discuss this subject further with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u615	At the request of Mr Verhoeven, I propose his motion (35300-XIII, No. 58). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u616	Then I have the motion in part no. 60 by Mr Moorlag, on the uncomfortable delivery market, as he himself called it. In saying that in the first place, I leave the judgment to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 61 of the PvdA Group will also be judged Chamber. The motion in part No. 62 of the PvdA Group I must advise against. Our principles are set out in the 2030 Vision Perspective and the Agenda for Action. I would like to include the recommendations of the Environment Council as far as appropriate, but a new state vision does not lead to the action we need in this dossier. Then I have the motion in part no. 64 by Mr Bruins. This is part of SZW's responsibility, but I can leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 65 by Mr Bruins on the vital infrastructure of the Van Swinden Laboratory and the maintenance of knowledge of metrology, I shall give my opinion to the Chamber. Then I have the motion in part no. 77 by Mr Öztürk on Qredits. With a reference to my words in the first term, I advise against this motion. Then I have the motion in part no. 78) by Mr Öztürk. I advise against this motion. The same applies to the motion in part No. 79 by Mr Öztürk. I would also like to refer to the extensive discussion of legal protection in procurement that we had in an AO at the end of October. Then the motion to part No. 80 by Mr Öztürk and Mr Van Haga. I can leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber if Mr Öztürk would like to remove the words 'or financial resources' from the motion, because I do not have them on this part. If he doesn't want that, I'm gonna have to discourage the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u617	In Limburg I have learned: thou seekest, thou findest financial means; thou seekest, thou shalt find. Anyway, I got some advice from my fellow entrepreneur, so let's get it out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u618	So the motion in part No. 80 is amended in accordance with the proposal of the Secretary of State. Does that make that judgment room?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u619	Right, Mr. Chairman. Then I have the motion in part no. 82 by Mr Van Haga and Mr Öztürk. I believe that the Öztürk motion should also be... No, it is Mr Van Haga's, because he has submitted it himself; they are just following one another. I have to discourage this motion. The motion in part No. 85 by Mr Van Haga and Mr Aartsen are support policies. I shall therefore leave this motion to the House.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u620	Could it be that the State Secretary's motion in part No. Eighty-one skips?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u621	The motion in part No. 81 has been dissuaded according to our records.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u622	Yeah, I think it was in the secretary's pile.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u623	Yes. Agreed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u624	Mr President, I would almost like to say to Mr Futselaar: you get that with so many motions. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u625	Thank you. This brings the Secretary of State to the end of giving her opinion on the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-11-20-tweedekamer-8.u626	I can tell you that the votes on the motions will take place next Tuesday. We shall vote on the amendments at a later date, on all the other amendments to the budget. I would like to thank the directors for their presence and input in this debate. This also applies, of course, to official support. Thanks to the MPs and their support. Thank you to our support: the Bodedienst, the Report and Editorial Service, the police and all the other people who have contributed to this debate. And thank you to the people who are still following this debate in another way. Thank you for your interest. That concludes the debate on the Economic Affairs and Climate budget and closes the sitting.
