ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u1	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the budget for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u2	I would like to welcome the Minister. She's gonna start with the first term on her side. It will, of course, answer all the questions raised by the Members of Parliament. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A week ago the farmers came here to The Hague, across the highways, across the city and even across the beach. They gathered on the Malieveld. Deafeningly, these farmers gave words and a voice to their unrest, to their uncertainty and sometimes to their impotence. These are feelings that I have already experienced in the discussions I have had with farmers in recent years. And it is also feelings that farmers have been carrying with them in silence for much longer. The farmers came to The Hague and they were no longer quiet. But I hope that this week's budget debate will also make farmers feel that The Hague is coming to them. I also know that many Dutch people understand why the farmers have shown this protest voice and that they also appreciate the farmers, as producers who provide us with our food every day. If there is anything left of the peasant protest on the Malieveld, hopefully it is the realization that these farmers are not alone in their problems and concerns. That we in our small country should give each other room to choose sustainable food production. I will never approach our farmers as percentages, or as fractions or numbers, but always as people with faces and families, and also as history. I found that the King spoke true words in that sense during Prince's Day, when he said that the lives of the Dutch do not fit in a mold. I can say that this is certainly not the case for farmers. It wasn't just recognition or appreciation that the farmers on the Malieveld asked for. When I stood there and had conversations, I heard that they also asked for a clear vision of the future. Not one year this and another year that. The need for a clear line is great. It is not only big among farmers, it is also big among fishermen, who have had to take on quite a few disappointments in the past year and who sometimes wonder how much room remains for their work. The vision of the future that the growers, fishermen and farmers are asking for is, as far as I am concerned, also the vision of the future of ourselves and our children. That's what we're talking about today as far as I'm concerned. We are actually looking beyond one financial year. We need a new perspective for decades, as our current agriculture has been able to develop over decades. Mr. Chairman. Let me also say that I see symbolism in the fact that this budget, the budget of Agriculture, Nature Management and Food Quality, the basis on which everything actually comes together and on which we build our lives and our prosperity, after the Financial Reviews, is the first time in the whole line of budgetary treatment. I think that's a fair place. When we zoom in on the basis of our existence, we also see that something is going on. We live in a time when many people worry about our climate, about nature. Generations, different from young to old, wonder what world we live in, what world we pass on to our children and our grandchildren and what our values are, what it's all about. How do we ensure that we care for the life entrusted to us? What decisions are the basis for this? During the past year several alarm bells also sounded about the state of nature. We notice in the flesh that nature is changing. I have been questioned several times by you about, for example, the advance of the oak procession caterpillar, but also about the disappearance of plant and animal species, the increased rains, the long drought we know and also about the state of the agricultural soil, which dries or acidifies. The Supreme Court, the Council of State, showed that things of value are worthy of protection. The decision on the nitrogen programme is sounded by, even today, when we are dealing with this budget. It makes our task for me to see agriculture and nature in balance and to balance it with one another even more urgent. Because our nature also knows boundaries. These issues cannot be pushed forward. We need a long time, but we also need to get right on it. These are not simple issues, because we cannot separate the way in which we produce our food, for example, from the chains in which that takes place, the chains of raw materials, residual flows and feed, the chains from which consumers also get their food. This chain takes place on the one hand on the yard or around the area where the food is produced, but the food often also feeds the whole world to end up on the board after the intervention of a lot of companies. Those companies in the intermediate domain all want to make some money. This has given rise to a certain pressure to increase production volumes. Our primary producers, our farmers, gardeners and fishermen are sometimes trapped in that. So we cannot put the lion's share of that responsibility there either. We all have a responsibility in our own place to respond to the challenges of our time. Mr. Chairman. That it is not always easy has also been stated by the Remkes Advisory Committee. That report was presented a week and a half or two weeks ago. It states that in this country we sometimes have to bribe with the space we have, the limited space, and also with the sometimes pervasive interests. 17 million people want to live, work, travel and recreate. We now see this as a puzzle, but we have been aware for some time that there are limits to it. Mr. Chairman. I am now going to work with the provinces on the nitrogen approach. I am in close contact with the delegates on this matter. The King's Commissioners will, from their own role, monitor that process and, wherever possible, accelerate it. Provinces and cabinet are going to work on solutions area-oriented.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u4	Are you ready at the end of your introduction?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u5	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u6	I would like to ask colleagues to let the Minister finish the introduction. I ask her to indicate which blocks she has so that everyone knows when to interrupt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u7	Yes. This is, of course, about various source measures that we can or must take, about nature restoration measures; I will come back to all of them later. But we also have a number of choices to make. We don't start at zero. We're working, a lot is already being done. In this sense, the LNV vision on circular agriculture also offers perspective. The starting point is that we help those who want to stop, to stop, on a voluntary basis, and that we offer perspective to those who want to continue. For the keepers, there has to be a place. We've been working on that for a while. I think that we will also see a number of things operationalised in the next financial year, which we agreed in the vision and also in the coalition agreement. If we want to give that perspective, we will also have to lay the foundations for earning models. In that context, we are now really taking a number of steps. The Young Farmers' Fund will enter into force on 1 January. This gives young farmers the opportunity to take over the business of their parents, or perhaps other family members, or others, and thus to work on their passion. We are in the middle of the discussion on the revision of the common agricultural policy. It is precisely in that discussion that we are working to focus all these things on circular agriculture, so that the farmer is appreciated for his contribution to this. The legislative proposals to break market power will be sent to the Chamber at the beginning of next year so that farmers can join forces and thus also gain a stronger position in the chain. There will be a lease policy that ensures that not everything is central in the short term and that the maximum is removed from the soil, but that long-term lease relationships are the starting point. We have opened up subsidy schemes to low-emission stables. We have been told today by the European Commission that we have been given permission to declare immediately the warm improvement of pig farming in force. We have just heard that and a letter will also be sent to the Chamber on this subject this evening. I could have called it in by now. The letter will be coming your way in a moment. That is also one of the things we agreed on in the coalition agreement. In doing so, we will ensure that those who want to stop in pig farming can also stop properly. We have made funds available in the Climate Agreement for the peat meadow areas, so that those who want to stay there also have a perspective in a way that suits the area and so that those who no longer want to stay there also have an opportunity to stop there. We're working on the experimental areas. Several areas have been designated to experiment with forms of manure processing and manure degradation, for example, so that we can also show towards the European Commission that these new ways are forward-looking and that, for example, we can also go further away from fertilizer. With regard to plant protection, we have presented a vision which is now being developed together with all sectors. The point is that we are going to make the change, but we are also going to do it in such a way that there are alternatives. And we are in the process of revising manure policy, in which, of course, many things that are central to circular agriculture must also be reflected. I read today 'no', I think it was yesterday in the Reformatorisch Dagblad an analysis of two farmers, who said: on the one hand we would very much like to move towards circular agriculture, but on the other hand we notice that we are being drawn to do it in the old way, because that transition is not yet complete. I care, but at the same time I can see that that's exactly what you're facing with a transition. You have to start creating a transition from one system to another, and just in that transitional phase, this does not always happen by itself. Then we need to move forward step by step in order to get these farmers out of that trap. I can't do that alone. I can only do that when all these chain movements are going to take those steps, otherwise that pinching aspect will remain on the farm. That is why I am making agreements again with all those chain parties to ensure that they will also contribute to the future of circular agriculture. Mr President, I see that there is a question, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u8	How much longer do you need for your introduction?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u9	I'm almost done with the introduction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u10	Then I'll give you a little more space.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u11	Mr. Chairman. If we combine circular agriculture in this way with the challenges we have with regard to nature and the problem of nitrogen in which we are now, then I am convinced that on the one hand we offer perspective to those who remain, to those who really want to go on with their business in a way that they can actually keep up. On the other hand, we offer space to nature, nature restoration and nature development and help those who say "I don't want to go along with this anymore" or "I can't go along with this anymore" to stop on a voluntary basis. I believe that this way we can also continue the social debate, where this now and then seems to be getting bogged down in polarisation. It's not easy right now, for anyone. I think there's a lot of questions coming to us right now. It is our job, as representatives of the people, to offer a new perspective there. I'd like to talk to you about that today. Mr. Chairman. I've got five cubes. I have already gone into one block a little bit more, but I am also getting a little more concrete: circular agriculture. The second is the problem of nitrogen. The third block is nature policy. The fourth block is fisheries policy. The fifth block is about animal welfare and a few other points that still touch on it sideways.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u12	Now is the time for Mr Baudet's interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u13	The Minister is responsible for almost the most disastrous agricultural policy we have seen in decades. That says something, because the farmers have been the victims of bad policy in The Hague for decades and have been the child of the bill for decades. I hear the Minister here saying that the farmers are in trouble, but the bizarre thing is that she herself is responsible for that and that she is now puzzled with all seeming solutions. But it's very simple. What you just need to do is raise that standard. We have a much too low threshold in the Netherlands for nitrogen. Across the border, in the Ruhr area, that nitrogen standard is 20 moles, but with us it's 0.05. In many other places in Germany, that standard is 7 moles. You can just raise the standard. It doesn't even take a law change. You refuse to do that. You're gonna go with me in that bullshit, in that slander of the left-wing parties. The Animal Party often talks about ecocide, but you, together with the CDA and the VVD, are responsible for............................................................................................................................................................................................ You destroy the peasantry, you destroy the farm. That is not necessary, because in Germany they simply have higher standards. There is no environmental problem, there is an accounting problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u14	If we had an accounting problem, we wouldn't have been whistled back by the judge. This happened not only this time, but also, for example, in 2008, as stated earlier in the letter. The judge said that nature is not sufficiently protected because there is anticipating the recovery that would take place in relation to what kind of activities are taking place there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u15	This is wrong.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u16	Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u17	This is wrong. This isn't what the judge said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u18	No, you don't have the floor. The Minister hasn't finished replying. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u19	This will be a discussion on whether or not the judge is right. That's kind of a complicated question, because I've just got to stick to a judge's ruling.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u20	This is just bullshit. In 2018, the following was said, and that was also the reason to develop the PAS, the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen. It has been said that a block exemption, as we had regulated in the Dutch system, was therefore a very low threshold and then a block exemption was incompatible with European legislation. What has not been discussed in any way, not in the case before the courts, nor in the case of the Council of State six months ago, is whether that threshold should remain the same itself. There is all the possibility of the judge never allowed himself to be...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u21	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u22	...to raise that threshold. There is no judicial ruling in the way. Why don't you just do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u23	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u24	You give all the room to the farmers to grow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u25	You asked your question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u26	They need that growth.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u27	If Mr Baudet had read the letter last Friday 4 October correctly, he would have read in it that I have just put the question to the Council of State whether I can introduce a threshold. So it's not true that I'm not working on a threshold. Mr Baudet could have read that in the letter of 4 October. The point of the court is that it was more generally that the current system is not manageable and that it must be countered immediately by source measures. These are measures that reduce nitrogen deposition. The judge said, to say it rather popularly, that we have lived on the puff and that we have assumed that eventually the nitrogen deposition would decrease to such a degree that nature recovery would occur. But that didn't happen enough. So if we are going to introduce a threshold, and I have just indicated that we are working on it, I must also indicate what we are going to do less, so that that is also possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u28	Finalizing, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u29	One more time: you don't have to ask the Council of State at all, because according to the law, by general measure of governance, that is just a decision of the Cabinet............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ So you don't have to ask the Council of State anything. You also do not have to work with a clamp for the farmers, because there is simply an accounting problem. There is too low a threshold and then a system has been created which has then been judged to be contrary to European law. We can simply bypass that. That's the way it is in Germany. You really don't have to go to the Council of State. You really don't have to wait. You can now help the farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u30	I want to help those farmers in particular to ensure that there is a threshold that is legally sustainable. Because if we don't have to work on something right now, that's something that's not gonna stand up to the judge again in a year's time. Then you create...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u31	No, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u32	The only criterion that can or cannot be maintained is the "significant" criterion in the European Union Habitats Directive, and we can do so ourselves. So either you just don't know the system, or you're way too careful, way too anxious. Be rugged for once. Show leadership and stand up for the peasants.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u33	I am standing up for farmers by ensuring that we now have a system that is legally sustainable, that provides clarity in practice, that contributes to the restoration of nature and offers prospects for economic development.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u34	Why didn't the Minister start adjusting that threshold? Why do you bring that up now, six months after that ruling? We're in a big crisis. There are 70,000 jobs at stake. The drivers are being bullied now. We are about to see you announce it yourself, a massacre among the farmers. That's what you just said. And then you say: but I'm also going to look at that threshold. You're wearing it exactly the wrong way. You should have raised and introduced that threshold by May. Then we wouldn't have had this problem. Why didn't the Minister do that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u35	Perhaps Mr Madlener has forgotten that the PAS contained a threshold. It has been said about this threshold that there is insufficient natural recovery. The whole discussion is about making sure that we are area-oriented in order to restore nature. So I have to look at that area-oriented too. So if you say "we're gonna do this" all generically for the whole of the Netherlands, then that can be legally untenable. On the contrary, we are looking at this threshold so that we can keep it. This must be countered by source measures to ensure that recovery also takes place. That's exactly what we're doing right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u36	That threshold is an issue that the Minister should simply order. The minister should just write down: that's what we're gonna do now. She could have done that by May. We are not going to do that after the maximum speed has been reduced, after all these farmers are told from the coalition that half the livestock must disappear? We've heard all sorts of things. We see a major disagreement in the coalition, and the Minister says: we are going to implement all these pain measures first and pour out over the farmers. Yes, they want to stop, of course, because they don't see a future. And then we're gonna take a look at that threshold. You're turning it around exactly. You should have started with that threshold. Why don't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u37	That was the PAS system, and that was shot at the judge.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u38	One more time, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u39	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u40	The minister just indicated she's going to look at that threshold. That's what the minister just declared himself. So why didn't the minister do that six months ago? Why wait? Why the Remkes committee? The Minister can do that already, and she'll report it herself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u41	It is amazing that I am being accused of the Remkes Committee. It was an order from your Chamber, which Mr Madlener agreed to, that I should set up a committee led by Mr Remkes. Well, the mission was not to be led by Mr Remkes; I chose it myself. But a committee had to be set up to identify solutions to this problem. So I did exactly what the Chamber asked. I have answered Mr Madlener's question exactly. He's actually turning it in very well himself. He asked why the Minister had to take measures before introducing a threshold. Because it went wrong in the past. At first we had a threshold, but no measures against it. And I need to stop that from getting shot again in court.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u42	Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u43	The point of the threshold is, of course, an issue, because everything is tied to it. My question is: why not introduce a very clear low threshold in the short term, for example of the more frequent 0.05 moles circulating? That's 0.01 part of the critical deposition value. What are you talking about? So all kinds of projects can start, including infrastructure, including construction. Then you can take the time to see more area specific what the value is really about in that area. Then the case can go back to business. My question to the Minister is to return to this approach in writing for the nitrogen debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u44	I think I already wrote that in the letter of October 4th. We are looking at whether this threshold can be implemented in this way. The problem with this system is that at a threshold I also anticipate the final realization of the source measures, of all the little bits together. I always say to us: a penny is not that much, but a lot of pennies together can be a lot of money. That's the same with the moles for the threshold. In itself you can say "that's not that big a deal," but a lot of that kind of little bit together is potentially a very large container of nitrogen. I'm gonna have to compensate for that. I have to make sure that I have realistic plans to show what measures we are going to take in order to get these small projects back on track. Let me say one thing about which I sometimes hear confusion. If there is no deposition, and that can be calculated with a model that we have developed, then you can also go through, so a number of projects can also go through because there is no deposition. If you find that out, you know it can be pulled smoothly again. For this reason, licences can be issued from tomorrow and in subsequent periods.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u45	I wonder if this will get the projects back on track. Everyone is extremely shy not to get another hit and start a project to get the job halfway through: ho, ho, construction stop. I would say that we are going to start with that generic measure of 0.01 critical deposition value. Specifying it takes time, but we don't have that time. Therefore, the step must be taken towards a generic measure and from there you can go into more detail.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u46	That is exactly the point I asked the Council of State for information on. Time is now actually my greatest enemy, if I may say so disrespectfully; time is not an enemy but in this aspect it is. Now you want some things to go on. It takes time for you to implement some source measures. Is it then possible to apply a threshold now, and I make it very clear that there are a number of measures that we are actually going to take so that nature is restored? We have to show that, and I also understand very well that it has to be done. The process I have now entered into looks exactly like this, but I think we will have a more in-depth discussion on this next week when we talk about the nitrogen letter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u47	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u48	To prevent us from having this kind of discussion again; I understand the thinking line, but I don't share it. That's also a political appraisal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u49	A legal appraisal, I'd almost say. Thank you for allowing me to respond to the impression that this is a political weighting not to do something. I really want a legally sustainable system. I think we owe it to everyone to make sure that happens. It's not gonna do me any good if I let something happen first, and it's gonna be stranded with the judge in six months' time. Then there will be a lot of uncertainty. I think it would help us both to avoid that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u50	Mr. Bishop, you may make your point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u51	To finish my question, we are not going to discuss this at the moment. I would like the Minister to confirm this in writing, so that we have the Minister's vision clearly in advance, in addition to the letter we received. Then, as far as I am concerned, we can discuss this in the context of the nitrogen debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u52	That vision is no different from what I'm saying here, so I'm not going to write another letter about it separately. I explained that on 4 October.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u53	My question is also about speed. In my view, the Minister is actually saying that we need to take source measures in order to achieve a number of solutions, such as a threshold. In her view, we need to reduce actual nitrogen emissions. But if I look at it a little bit, we're going to spend the next few months together with provinces by area to see what should happen. I don't understand that, because I think we should be mapping all those peak loaders for a long time. Those considerations, such as those around less fast driving, those around the airport or not, and those around the livestock sector or not, should we not be able to just make it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u54	Let me be clear: I don't have any of that. It is almost the individual level: where are the issues that give a lot of emissions and what does that mean for the activities that the entity does? You really need to look at that on a local level. Some provinces are a little further in the mapping of such matters, I am also honest. Some provinces aren't. This means that we need a little more time in some areas. It is not just about mapping where, for example, the high peak load is, but also what that means for the person doing that activity. I take as an example a farm: what is the future perspective of that company? How do farmers themselves look at this? On the other hand, in such an area you must also see what problems we have with each other. That's really different. Not every nature reserve has the same task. You have a nature reserve, and then you see what needs to be done there. What are the sources of nitrogen emissions there? What is the need for nitrogen? Then you can take other activities further. How do you put all that together? That's the process we're going to do now. In one area this goes faster than in the other, but we must also do it carefully.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u55	I certainly believe that, but also of the nature reserves, I think we should simply map the deposition. My follow-up question concerns the role of the provinces. I have a quote here today. A deputy in an action by farmers says: "Sanitation of agriculture around Natura 2000 sites is not at all at all at stake'. That's a quote from Tubantia. I believe that such a quote contradicts the Remkes report and the letter sent by the Minister. That is precisely what it says. I think it's described as "smart, warm clean-up." How does the Minister see that? If you read such things, how are we going to work together to quickly make meters in terms of reducing nitrogen emissions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u56	I don't know this quote, so it's a little complicated to respond to now, but in general I work very well with the provinces. In the case of a large number of licences, they are also the competent authority. The provinces therefore also have the power to make the choices. It is very important that we coordinate things well. That's what we're doing right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u57	In conclusion, Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u58	There is an enormous urgency surrounding this issue with regard to permits that are waiting, houses that are not being built and bridges that are collapsing. Hopefully we can do something about that soon. But with twelve different fellow governments making regional plans is the most efficient way to quickly make those first meters? Shouldn't we start implementing source measures now, even if they may not be the most efficient per area? Then we can at least make a start, and then we will not have to find out later in December or January: well, we still have a job to do; it will take another year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u59	It's not like it's gonna take another year. We are now working very quickly to get a good picture of this kind of thing. But I don't have much use for it either if I take a source measure that doesn't do anything at all for the deposition. You want to take a source measure that has an effect. Not only do I say that, but the opinions of the Remkes Committee also say that. That was a rather wide-ranging committee. Who recognized that you really need to look at it by area. That's what we're doing right now. These things go a little faster on one point than on the other. We are not going to sit alone with each other for a very long time until everyone is ready: where we can do it quickly, we are going to do it faster. At the same time, I hear Mr Futselaar say: should we start working with all these twelve provinces? Again, they are the competent authorities. I can tell them that they all have to do things, but then they look at me and say: good luck, but we have our own authority here. That's why I have to work with them, and I'm working very well with them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u60	I have two questions. The decentralisation of nature policy appears not to have been very sensible at the moment. I asked in the first term how there could be no plan at the ministry. How does the Minister explain that the provinces have been made responsible for nature policy, when they apparently have no idea how heavily the nature areas they are responsible for are taxed and by whom? I'd like an answer to that. Then there's my second question. In her introduction, the Minister said rightly, I think farmers are asking for clarity and we need to look forward for decades. How does she reflect herself on the statement she made on the stage at that farm protest? She said that, if it is up to her and as long as she is Minister of Agriculture, there will be no halving of the livestock. In view of all the goals she has to achieve, what is the basis for that? How can she be so sure that won't be necessary?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u61	First, the question of nature policy. Provinces wouldn't know what the state of nature is in their area, so to speak. I don't know if that's true at all. They usually know quite well what their goals are and what still needs to be done in a certain nature reserve. Only, we had the system of the PAS. Within that system it was not up to the province to say: okay, this is the deposition, so here it has to be a little less and there a little more. No, we had agreed some rules of the game, which in the end proved to be unsustainable in court. To blame the provinces for that now, I find it a little complicated. Provinces are usually very good because of what the tasks in their nature reserve are still. The second question concerns the halving of livestock. Mrs Ouwehand has already come to the conclusion that this half cut is necessary in order to achieve all the goals. Is it a question of shrinking the livestock anyway, or is it a question of lowering the deposition of nitrogen, for example? Because there are other ways to do that. I believe it should be sought in a combination. We see that you can also make meters with low-emission barn systems for example. I was at Nieuwsuur last week. There was a farmer from Brabant who lived against Natura 2000. He has a farm with a low-emission stable, which means he has hardly any deposition in that area. Is the aim then that all these animals are removed there, or is the objective that nature is in balance with agriculture? Then I choose the latter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u62	But that wasn't my question. The Minister says that we need a long-term perspective and that farmers deserve clarity, but why does she choose to imagine farmers at such a time that any halving of livestock is simply not going to happen, and certainly not forced at all? The latter was not pronounced on stage, but it turned out to be in the statement we saw on the internet. If it turns out that the Minister can't make that happen, I think she's made a very unwise statement. It is not just about nitrogen; we also have the climate targets to meet. Does the Minister support the fact that all objectives in the areas of nature, climate, environment, animal welfare and food security can be achieved without shrinking livestock and without compulsion? If so, then she should share it with the Chamber; then we know what we're talking about. If she didn't, why did she make that statement?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u63	Mrs Ouwehand is now asking two things. She says, without shrinking. I have just announced that the scheme for the warm clean-up of pig farming has been opened up. The animal rights are being removed. I've never made a secret of you getting less pigs in this country. I didn't say animals wouldn't disappear. In fact, under the climate agreement, for example, we are shaping the rule for Natura 2000 sites, which benefits nature 50% and the future of agriculture 50%. I never said there wouldn't be a shrinkage. However, I do not think that the absolute statement that there is going to be a halving of the livestock is justified. There are many more possibilities, which can also reduce the deposition of nitrogen, for example. We need to use them, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u64	Finally. The Minister says here in this Chamber that farmers deserve a long-term perspective, that we need to look forward for decades and that they deserve clarity. I agree with her very much. So the Minister cannot make it clear here either that the statement she made there is in the light of those long-term perspectives. She actually said there that she might hold off the boat a bit for this short period of time and she does not tell farmers what needs to be changed in the long term. I just don't think that's wise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u65	Mrs Ouwehand already knows exactly the outcome. I've indicated that there are several tracks that you can walk through. We will all walk along these different tracks together. On the one hand, we must ensure that farmers who do not want to go any further can have their own voluntary arrangements to clean up. That is exactly what we are about to do with pig farming. On the other hand, we must offer farmers who want to stay, a perspective that is also in balance with nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u66	When I hear some colleagues on the right about the problem of nitrogen, it seems that even after five months they have not noticed what is going on and that it is a balancing of interests. On the one hand there is the importance of agriculture and on the other hand there is the importance of nature. The Minister knows that, because in her introduction she identifies both interests. I'm just dealing with the next issue. That concerns next week's farm protest. The farmers intend to occupy the Binnenhof here. I think this is a curious action in itself, because it is the democratic centre of the Netherlands. Anyway, I'm sure the new mayor will have an opinion on that. The farmers are coming here. Demonstrating is their right. They demand that there be no reduction in livestock and they will stay in The Hague until they see their demands met. How does the Minister view this in the light of the balance of interests it is required to achieve?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u67	I have heard other demands from these farmers. I also invited them to a conversation, both Agrik and Farmer's Defence Force. I sent a letter asking if they would like to come to the Ministry to discuss the matters they have submitted to me. This point, this way, I haven't heard it like this, but I want to talk to them about that. I think I have just said that I am not saying that there will be no shrinkage at all. In fact, today I am announcing a measure that will reduce the number of pigs in the Netherlands. But this discussion was more about generic livestock halving.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u68	I am concerned that the Minister is also honest with the farmers. Soft healers don't help farmers. They cause stinking wounds. I agree with my colleague from the Animal Party that this includes a longer-term perspective. Perhaps farmers have dropped the requirement that there should be no shrinkage of livestock. The Minister is now coming up with the story that an arrangement will be opened tomorrow, which was announced two and a half years ago. But I would also like it if she said that much and much more is needed. The change in the agricultural sector will be enormous, so be prepared, don't underestimate it. It's gonna hurt, too. Those are the words that I do not hear very much from the Minister and which I think farmers will ultimately benefit more from than some sort of reassurance in the vein of 'we can still do something with low-emission stables and then you can go on if you like'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u69	I don't think I've ever said that a change will come naturally, that it'll all happen on its own. I started my introduction to that. I said: we really need to move to another system of agriculture; we are now running into borders. I didn't say that for the first time. When I was a minister for almost a year, we presented the vision in which that was already stated. The path we have now taken and all the steps we are taking must be directed towards this. That already requires that we also make a number of choices. I would like to mention, for example, the debate on the CAP, where money, which was generally intended for something, now needs to focus much more on something. I'll do the same in consultation with your room. That is the discussion we are having. That means something, too. It is my expectation that farmers will eventually start to think: hey, am I going to see it this way or do I not choose it but I also know that there will be no compensation for it. Same for the Climate Agreement. That is what has been done with all these sectors themselves. There are not very simple measures. In fact, the sector itself has offered to make a higher contribution if it were to receive enough funding. We did. So suggesting that nothing happens at all and that it doesn't hurt sometimes here and there, I don't want to. If Mrs Bromet has the impression that I am doing so, I have to make that even clearer, but I believe that we are actually showing with the steps we are taking, that we are actually going that way. There are also choices felt on the farmyard, of course. As far as I'm concerned, it shouldn't just be about the farmyard. On the contrary, these choices must be part of the chain parties. Those chains may sometimes have more interest in making no change than the primary producer. I think I have the responsibility of actually turning the screws there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u70	Finalizing, Mrs. Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u71	I'm glad the Minister takes the word "pain." She still says "here and there" pain. I'm afraid that pain will be greater than it is now pretending.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u72	I don't think that was a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u73	There's a lot going on. This also shows that nitrogen is again so prominent at the start of this debate. There's something really going on. The trust in nature organisations was already very low. With the peasants, it disappeared in one stone. In my opinion, this calls for a number of points in the Minister's action. One is a fixed course, two is direction, the third is proactive and actionable. I wonder whether these three conditions are met. When it comes to that fixed course, we have a vision of circular agriculture, which for one part of the coalition has a totally different meaning than for the other part of the coalition, which is causing great confusion about what this course is now: whether or not it is a floater and whether or not it is a halving of livestock farming. The second is the direction. Mr Futselaar cites the example that co-governments send out different signals. For the citizen and the farmer, there is only one government. The third is to act decisively and proactively. If I hear the Minister in Nieuwsuur say that, while the European Court of Justice set the light on dark yellow last November, she waited until the light was turned on red and did not anticipate it in time, then my question to the Minister is: does she think that there is a confidence-building operation here?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u74	I don't think I'm here in this room to give a review of myself. I think it's always up to the Chamber to say that about me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u75	My question to the Minister is whether she is of the opinion that she is operating on a steady course and has operated, whether she is in sufficient control and whether she is operating in a sufficiently effective and proactive manner.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u76	Then I'm allowed to give another review of myself, Mr. Chairman. - Course steady? - Mm-hmm. Everything we are doing now is about circular agriculture. I have just mentioned a whole line of things that we are working on, where the starting point is that fewer raw materials are being used and that we have better soil, with fewer emissions. A good quality of water, air and soil is at the heart of everything we are doing to ensure that we can balance agriculture and nature. I have already ended up in the circle of agriculture on my own. We are considering, for example, what much more we can do with proteins from the European continent. We're in the process of reviewing our manure policy. We are even working on pilots to see how we can use animal manure instead of fertilizer, where this is sometimes not even allowed in the regulations. On all these points, we are now actually taking action. Then Mr Moorlag can say 'it is not enough'; he can. He can make his own judgement on that. I do know that for a long time there has been a direction in which everything we are doing is actually sounded. That, in my view, is the way forward in this discussion. If we are all doing things here, Mr Moorlag can say: where is it going? I think we have made that clear and we are working on all these steps.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u77	In conclusion, Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u78	I have already said that I think that the vision of circular agriculture is too vague. That has now proved to be very hard, as the supporting parties in this coalition give it a totally different meaning and give it a totally different effect. I fear that this will only reduce confidence in society further and only increase anger. If you ask each relevant party what circular farming means, they all give different answers. And when you ask what needs to be done, the main thing is what other parties should do. I don't think that's a good approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u79	I do not agree that it should be said that someone else should do so. We have all kinds of conversations with the chain parties, just because I... I told you recently, but I was in college a while ago, and then a young lady who studied there said, "I'd really like to take over my parents' company on the basis of the circular principles. I made a business plan on that, and I went to the bank with it. And then the bank said, "What now? Try it the way we've always done it." Then I have a conversation with the financier, because that is exactly the discrepancy between where we want to go and what sometimes breaks down in practice. I really think it is right for such a young lady to say to me: what am I supposed to do now? That's what I care about, and that's what I'm gonna do. Now we've brought all these parties together to ask, "How are you gonna do it?" What will your contribution be in this whole? How are you going to bet that direction? If you zoom out, our agricultural policy and the underlying principles are actually developed in about 60 years. I'm gonna have to push it in all these places a different direction to make sure it's moving in the right direction. That didn't just happen! I agree with Mr Moorlag. I wish I had it all done yesterday. I can't, but I know what I have to do. I have to keep getting those actions going every day to get there, and that's what we're doing now. Mr. Chairman. In fact, we have already entered the cycle farming block a little automatically, and I am assuming that I can continue to do so. A number of questions have already been asked by Members, but I think I should now continue with the questions that remain. Mr De Groot actually had a bigger story about how all kinds of aspects of circular agriculture should be shaped. It is true that there are problems in the feed and manure sides. We are already working on that, because that is something we are now also giving direction to. Mr De Groot then says: can there be a ban on fertilizers now? This leads precisely to the ambiguity that farmers sometimes hear. For example, they think: "I am making adjustments to my stable. That takes time, but I get to hear about a ban right away." That is a cause for concern on the part of those farmers. I just want to work on all those steps we're doing on the way to, for example, other barn systems. I have also agreed to this with the sectors. I also believe that that is the path we will have to follow. Same in the area of residual flows. There I am on the one hand with the regulations from Brussels. We're in the process of bringing that up, but it's gonna take quite a lot of time. That hasn't just changed. In the meantime, I'm working on the companies that are just doing food and that kind of thing. How can you already take steps in the field of these residual flows? If I have to wait until I've changed all the laws, it'll take a long time. So I am actually very practical in taking a number of steps. I also see that these companies are really thinking about this themselves, and I also think that is the only right way to go. Mr Moorlag is asking, and I have to say that he is a...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u80	An interruption by Mr De Groot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u81	Good thing the Minister is thinking further about feed and manure. That's good. We all want to get rid of cranium. The Minister's sketching a way to do that. What is the best way to actually bring to the market the innovations that are already there to separate the thick and thin fraction of ammonia and much less methane emissions? To do that, we need a clear signal. You can stimulate innovation and new systems, but those innovations will only really run if there is real clarity. That does not necessarily have to be a ban, but it does have to be a clear statement on how to proceed. That, I think, is more than just stimulating. That is the context of that remark.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u82	Farmers are entrepreneurs. They also know what to do in some situations. I have just received a lot of questions in the vein of: these stable systems are there, we would like to apply them, but we will get there if I do the same very technical thing in the Rav-systematiek. I may be able to talk about prohibitions, but at the same time if the alternative is not accepted, I will put a farmer on quite a tight leash. What do I have to do? I am together with the Secretary of State of IenW, who is talking about this Rav list, about the Rav systematiek, looking at how we can ensure that there are no more obstacles there. Because I'm a little embarrassed when I say to that farmer on the one hand: you have to go to another stable system, and he says: well, I have a fantastic idea here, but I can't get through it. That's exactly what I'm doing, and we're gonna have to do meters there real fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u83	I think that's very good. A suggestion in this respect is: see if there is any possibility of admission at an experimental stage, because I think that is one way to speed up innovation in the area of barn systems.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u84	I'll see what I can do at that point and I believe there's really another world to win in those cases.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u85	However, I would like to say a few words about Mr De Groot's speech yesterday. I listened to that with interest. I think he is particularly in favour of clarity when it comes to circular agriculture. He mentioned the various possibilities, legislation, also a ban on fertilizers, but that was only "a suggestion." In my opinion, it was mainly a question of clarity next year, also in order to prevent circular agriculture from remaining too non-binding, which everyone can explain in their own way, I would almost say: also within the coalition. How does the Minister see that, especially in view of the context he puts in, because if he does not succeed, then the Minister is "failed" as far as he is concerned? I think that was the term, but then I might paraphrase him a little.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u86	It is a very special debate that I have to review myself here every time. I'm not going to. In Mr De Groot's speech, I have heard a number of things he says: that is what you have to work on when you are working on circular agriculture. That has to do with the food, with residual streams, with proteins. Where do your proteins come from? He also asked for experimental areas and said: look how you get to high-quality manure. In my view, I have indicated all those points we are currently working on. As regards the residual flows, as regards manure. I would also like to come up with a review of the manure policy. I've already set up those experimental regions. They're running now. With regard to protein, more and more initiatives are being taken, including by feed suppliers, to see how alternatives can be found. We're at work on all those points.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u87	We are now in the somewhat more difficult terrain of doing D66-exegesis, of: what did he mean? But I heard Mr De Groot argue in favour of a legal framework in which one way or another we can define what the limits of circular agriculture are and are not. I am not asking the Minister to review himself, but I have heard that Mr De Groot is going to do so at some point if there is no such thing. Does the Minister intend, for example, to introduce a circular agricultural law in the future?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u88	I have indicated exactly what we are doing now, and that matters must also be changed in legal terms. In fact, we also have laws and regulations that hinder recycling. That is exactly why I am reviewing manure policy. I have just said that we also have some restrictive rules on the remaining flows. So yes, where legislation stands in the way, we are going to deal with it. That's not new. I've said that before. And if Mr De Groot thinks that is enough, may he decide for himself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u89	We have had shocking news from the Minister, because she has told us that she is actually continuing on the path of the Remkes advice. There's just gonna be a clean-up of a lot of entrepreneurs in this country. I had to let it work on me for a while, because it's not nothing we hear here after such peasant protests. The Minister will continue on the same path. I have a question. Of course, Remkes also said: let's not burn all those wood chips in those power stations with the billions in tax money, because that also gives nitrogen. But Mrs Schouten said: we are just going to do that. How is it possible that farmers will have to stop their farms in part, while the forest fires in these plants can continue?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u90	I am now struggling with the order of the debate, because there is still a separate block of nitrogen problem. I gave the Members of Parliament ample time after the detailed introduction, giving them the floor. That was when this issue came up. This question is more about the next block than about circular agriculture. So I suggest we discuss this then.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u91	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u92	The Minister then continued her speech with the completion of the circular agriculture block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u93	Fine, Mr. Chairman. I would have stayed with Mr Moorlag. He asked if I would be willing to come up with a common agricultural, food and nature agreement with all the parties in the chain, in order to create ownership. That was the agricultural agreement he mentioned. I understand the idea behind what Mr Moorlag says, that you actually need all the parties in the chain to be able to make that change. That was my argument, too. I'm not the only one who can do that. Really everyone in the different places should come along. We're bringing the parties together. I also asked them how they're gonna work on that cover, and they're all gonna answer that. Those calls aren't gonna stop. We are continuing to do so, in order to ensure that it does not become a non-binding transition. To put that into some sort of agricultural agreement, I doubt it. I think that is a suggestion of some sort of great climate agreement or something, and then we spend a lot of time making all kinds of agreements with each other. Then a lot of time goes to waste. I think that I should just get hands-on now, and that is what I am already doing with all the parties that Mr Moorlag is looking at. So let me say that I think I am working in the spirit of his comment, but I am not putting a label on it of 'this is now going to be the big agricultural agreement'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u94	I see the Minister is working in a lot of places. I also see a fleet of projects and processes. My concern is whether there are shared values. As far as I am concerned, a value should be that we give farmers security of existence and prospects for the future, a value should be that it improves nature, that we restore nature, and should be a value that we also pass on our environment to future generations in a sustainable way. If you do that with all these separate projects and processes, where is the coherence? There's all kinds of trade-offs in there, so we're gonna have to negotiate. Hence my call for a coherent agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u95	This is clear. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u96	I think that is an important point of profit from the fact that a package of 600 measures has been taken on the climate issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u97	If you look at the Vision LNV Realisation Plan, you will see a lot of measures and many initiatives. Mr Moorlag is right to ask whether the coherence is still a bit guarded. He can call me on that. At the same time, I believe that we should not waste time on a number of things that are already going on. I'm calling that "that's not even my own" "the Delta Plan Biodiversity Recovery." I know that Mr Moorlag himself is enthusiastic about this. There's all these parties at the table. We will facilitate that further. I also have a contribution to make to this, for example in how I direct the CAP. This also coincides with a number of agreements we made in the Climate Agreement. So I agree that there should be some kind of direction or alignment; I don't know what to call it. That must be done at our ministry. But should I first put all these parties to the table to ask: where is the agricultural agreement? Look at the Climate Agreement; then we will really be another year and a half. I'd regret the time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u98	Finalizing, Mr. Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u99	I do have some concern, because at a system jump all parties have to jump through the hoop at the same time and there must also be common ownership and joint commitment. These are, in my opinion, weaknesses in the Minister's approach.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u100	I think it could go hand in hand, Mr. Chairman. I have to prove that, and I'm working on it every day. I have already said a number of things about funding, including in the introduction. I have said that it really must be a soil and a prerequisite for that transition to take place. Mr Stoffer is not here right now, but I do like Mr Bishop. I assume he fully agrees with Mr Stoffer's contribution yesterday. "Seamless" I hear Mr Bishop say. Mr Stoffer asked an interesting question about this. He specifically asked about the entrepreneurs who want to make the switch to organic farming. In addition, there is a pay-off period, which is actually quite difficult to finance. It's kind of hard to do that right. You do have the guarantee appropriations for that, but they do not always provide the solace that farmers are looking for at the time. I think this is a valid point. I say to Mr Bishop, and through him, Mr Stoffer, that I will see what is needed here and where exactly the need for these switches lies. I will see how we can better focus the arrangements that exist on that. I therefore believe that this point has been rightly raised. I come to the point of innovation. We've been talking about that for a while. Many points have also been touched in the interruptions about the new stable systems and about the laws and regulations. Mrs Lodders, in particular, has also drawn attention to this. She asked: shouldn't we also look closely at these laws and regulations for circular agriculture, and also see what innovations are very important in order to be able to make that change? It is precisely in order to know which laws and regulations we may have to remove or amend that we are dealing with these experimental areas. We are now looking very closely at what we are facing. I am giving room for that now, but what should we do about it in a structural way and also for the whole country? I told you, we're also looking at adjusting those Rav lists. At least I want that to go faster than we are at the moment and not to waste too much time there. And I've just heard some suggestions about how you could handle that. I am happy to take them with me, including in the discussion with my colleague from IenW. Mrs Lodder also asked a little more about the international significance of our agriculture and horticulture. It's big, that's right. We have an internationally prominent agricultural and horticultural sector. On the one hand, exports of goods take place there, but remember that knowledge and skills are also exported on the other hand. So it's really on both sides. In order to maintain that knowledge and skills, you must also have a certain level of agriculture in your country, otherwise it will go away at some point. Mrs Lodders also specifically mentioned the Agrofood Monitor of the Hague Centre for Strategic Studies. I also had that monitor run myself, to see how we are going to re-determine the future deployment of our Agricultural Councils. So just in order to maintain that strategic place, I need that kind of information, and we're working on that too. This study has not yet been fully completed. As soon as that is the case, I will talk to the private parties about this, on which they can also use the monitor. I'll also let the Chamber know what the monitor looks like.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u101	First of all, thank you for the response to both points. I paid a work visit to that Agrofood monitor myself. It sounds very hopeful. So I await them with great interest. I am glad that the Minister is going to work with the Rav systematiek; indeed, that is what I call it. I have already announced in the first term that we will also come up with an initiative to remove a number of obstacles. My point is whether the Minister wants to look at this system in particular. I have asked several written questions about this with Mr Ziengs. We ask for attention to be paid to the position of entrepreneurs with innovative ideas: these ideas should not be shared simply because of their economic importance. Does the Minister really want to pay attention to this in the short term?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u102	Can't share it because of its economic importance? I need to have the question a little more specific, so I can say yes or no.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u103	Entrepreneurs, inventors and start-ups should actually put their whole idea almost publicly on the table. Then the competitor can also make the effort. That is one of the biggest obstacles that I get back time and time again from the entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u104	Clear. I'm gonna see what I can do about that. I cannot yet promise whether anything will come of it, but I am going to make an effort to see what guarantees we can build in there. I have to do that with my colleague from IenW; I will contact her about the options to improve this. I get that you don't want your latest innovations in the paper right away and we need to look at that. I'll come back to your room. I'll inform you about the outcome of those talks. Mr. Chairman. I'm going through the questions a little bit, because I've already answered a part in the interruptions. There were some specific questions about food. Mrs Bromet had rather specific questions about the food banks. She asked whether, like the French, we should go to a law to force the donation of food to prevent food waste. We actually have good cooperation agreements with the Association of Netherlands Food Banks; they exist. The operating retailers, usually the supermarkets, are linked to the food banks. What can you do with the food banks there, including in the context of supervision and enforcement? The NVWA, for example, is well involved in this, so that we do not always have discussions about food safety. We are also really looking at what more is needed for the food banks to fulfil their role. So I do not think that a law on this point has so much more meaning, but I am prepared, I say to Mrs Bromet, to say once a year with the food banks to take up the temperature: where are we, are we going well, are there obstacles, can we improve things there and can you pick it up quickly? I'm willing to say I'm going to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u105	That sounds good, but I think there's been a misunderstanding. On the one hand, I have called attention to the food banks. I also intend to table a motion on this in the second term. On the other hand, I've drawn attention to food waste. Of course, it would be very good if the food that is left in the supermarkets would reach the food banks; that is what my motion is about. But the second question is actually separate from the food banks. In France there is a law that supermarkets cannot throw food away. That is what my question is really about. Is such a law possible in the Netherlands? What does the Minister think of such a law in the Netherlands?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u106	Before I have a law, it takes a lot of time. I see that agreements are made here in cooperation agreements between retail on the one hand and food on the other. If there's any food left, it goes there. When it comes to throwing away food generically, there are other issues relating to food quality, food safety and that kind of thing. Wherever it is possible to donate, I have no signals that there are thresholds. That has been the case once, but my predecessors have done a good job of doing so. Once again, when I see in the talks with the food banks that barriers are being experienced, I want to pick them up. I'll talk to them every year. I do so together with my colleague from SZW, because she has a responsibility here, of course. I didn't go to work with her that long ago at a food bank, just to ask what's going on, what's going on. Then I come to the point of local products and the connection farmer-citizen. Several MPs have asked questions about regional products and the strengthening of the connection between town and country or city and country. I think it's very good to try to narrow the gap, if there is one. Mr Geurts has drawn particular attention to this issue, including regional and local products. Soon I'll come up with some more specific proposals from him. Let me put it this way: 2020 is, as far as I am concerned, really the year of locally produced food. We are going to implement this in several ways. I have already said in the letter on short chains that next year I am going to organise a trade mission in my own country, in which we are calling for attention to be paid to regional and regional products in the various regions. During that trade mission, I would also like to conclude or have concluded contracts and declarations of intent between those who offer the local products and those who can receive them. I would also like to say that this is a little bit in response to Mr Geurts' question on health and food, which is specifically concerned with locally produced food and health institutions and homes, i.e. nursing homes, nursing homes and hospitals. I know there are already good experiences with this in places, but I think it would be a good idea to include this aspect in that trade mission in our own country. Then we can see if we can make more links and thus contribute to the health of residents.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u107	When people who suffer from allergies, for example, get honey from a beekeeper from the immediate vicinity, so within a few kilometers of their home, it works against allergies. That honey works better, both probiotic and antibiotic. Can the Minister take that with her if she's going to investigate all that? This would mean that certain regional honey can also work better medically.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u108	Now I come to an area that I don't know very much about. It is really about allergies and diseases in relation to food and how things can work with each other. Nor is that trade mission aimed at making people better. Let me put it this way. It is really about the importance of local food, also in relation to the houses. I'm not very good at judging it. The fact that it is locally produced food seems to me to be a good thing to emphasize, but I find it difficult to estimate whether it actually has a medical effect.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u109	I have a book of nearly a thousand pages on the medicinal and probiotic, antibiotic and prebiotic effects of honey. It's known that if you suffer from hay fever, for example, I'll just mention something called "something" and you pick up honey from your immediate surroundings in which you also suffer from that hay fever, it works better. That's actually my question. So it's not so much about making it better. What I mean is that you should actually recognize every honey as a local product.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u110	I'm still having a hard time looking at it. When it comes to honey that is produced locally, it is of course also involved in those local products. But this is also about the link with allergies and the like. Perhaps it would be a good idea to discuss this with the colleague of VWS. Then Mr Geurts asked a very specific question about the purchasing policy of the Empire, namely: is it not possible that we pay more attention to locally produced food in our own procurement policy? As Mr Geurts knows, the Ministry of the Interior and Kingdom Relations is about purchasing them, but I will also, for example, look with the local authorities to see if it is possible to place domestic products at the centre and to include them in catering. Of course, we'll also see what it means for our own restaurants and business canteens. I will take that up with my colleague to see if there are more possibilities for that. Mrs Dik-Faber specifically asked about the short chains. How can we give more encouragement to this? We have the task force Korte Keten. This is already doing some work for us not so much for me, but ultimately just for the producers, of course, to see if you can remove the obstacles in the region in terms of logistics, data or sales channels as much as possible. I also support that task force financially. He'll help me shape that local trade mission. In this way, we are also trying to bring things closer to the region in a very practical way. In addition, I support several other initiatives that have been going on for a long time, such as the Dutch Food Week, the core group Urban Agriculture Netherlands and the Platform Multifunctional Agriculture. In this way you make the farmer-citizen connection ever stronger and you also literally make sure that people come together on the floor. People can just come to the farm. Mrs Dik-Faber made a very specific proposal on this subject. I think that is a very special proposal and a very good proposal. She suggested that young people should be allowed to complete their social service on the farm. Actually, when I heard it, I thought, "Why didn't we think about that before?" 'Cause it makes so much sense. That way you can get to know the farm. You can then see and experience how things are going there and of course you can also help, because you don't just look around there. You should do something, too. That way you can really bridge that gap. I am prepared to look with the parties involved, including the agricultural and horticultural organisations, to see whether we can give our hands and feet to this. There are already a few initiatives, I understand, like Farmer Bistro of the Rural Youth and Green Traineeship of IVN. I would like to see with the various parties whether we can give more hands and feet to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u111	Very sympathetic. Does this also mean that when it comes to the maintenance of nature, the volunteers there...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u112	I just mentioned the Green Traineeship of IVN.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u113	Yes. That's just to clarify. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u114	Okay. Mr. Chairman. Finally. When we talk about green, I come to Mr Weverling's very specific question. Moreover, more questions have been asked on this subject; I am wanted everywhere. We're gonna take a look at it. Mr Weverling spoke of the Floriade. He said that there are a number of things that can be presented there, such as the Growing Green Cities, which shows what the opportunities are for greenery in the city, the importance of healthy food, and projects in the field of horticulture. As a cabinet we are also busy to increase the spirit abroad for the Floriade. I do that myself, but I know that other cabinet members also contribute to that. I am happy to go to Almere together with Mr Weverling to see what is going on. Mr. Chairman. This was the piece on circular agriculture. Then I'm moving on to the nitrogen block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u115	Maybe it's a good thing I'm just saying that after the block on the nitrogen problem I'll suspend for dinner break. Hopefully that will be an incentive to be a little short and concise in terms of interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u116	I think that's going pretty well, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u117	Ah look, this is entrapment. Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u118	A short question about circular agriculture. The contribution of D66 was that animal welfare will become an important condition for circular agriculture. I actually had the same question: what are the specific plans that the Minister has in mind? In that vision, all we have to say is that we weigh it. I don't think that's concrete enough. Earlier, I have already confronted the Minister with the promises that by 2022 at the latest, the natural behaviour of animals would be leading. Then she said: we have our own long-term target for 2030. What will be the plans for animal welfare?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u119	I have a separate block of animal welfare. I shall deal with the questions on animal welfare, which have been raised by the Party for Animals, among other things. I have always informed the Chamber on several points about what steps we are taking in relation to animal welfare. Very recently, I did so in a letter and in a general consultation that I also had. We are taking several steps there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u120	So there's nothing more to it, except the letters that were already there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u121	In my opinion, it is always matters that occur and where we have to consider how we deal with them. If I zoom out a little bit with regard to circular agriculture, it is particularly important that we include animal welfare in all the plans around, for example, the barn systems and the keepers. It shouldn't be like saying: oh, this was all a very good plan, but we get issues with animal welfare again. There is also sometimes a dilemma. I often say that to Mrs Ouwehand. In matters that are good for animal welfare, for example the chickens outside, which I think Mrs Ouwehand would like, you will get a lot more fine dust issues again. Those are things that sometimes you put in front of dilemmas and where you also make weighings. These are also matters that are often taken into account locally. I sent an animal welfare letter myself. At the points where we can make improvements in between, we do so. I recently announced the legal ban on transporting animals at too high temperatures. It's not like we're doing nothing in between, but we're just on our way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u122	There's gonna be another separate block, Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u123	The final point on this point. We have heard experts in the Chamber about fine dust emissions. If you ask them what the recommendations are, the answer is: fewer animals, because then you can leave the chickens out and then you don't have so much fine dust. These are solutions that I have not yet heard from this Minister. When she says that you have to consider animal welfare when further rolling out the circular vision, I wonder what that means to her and whether she can actually implement it. Will natural behaviour be the guiding principle and the criterion on which you then approve or not approve a circular agriculture plan?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u124	We recently had a discussion here about, for example, ammonia in the stables; how good or bad that is for the animals. When you go to new stable systems, of course you're going to see how to reduce that ammonia. That is good anyway, but that is also good for animal welfare. Those are all aspects that I think you can bring together. I have announced this in the vision and we are on our way to it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u125	The Minister continued her speech on the problem of nitrogen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u126	A number of members of the committee asked me to explain again exactly what the problem is about nitrogen, in order to get to that point. We have a ruling from the Council of State on the use of the PAS system. The Council of State states that there are limits to what nature can handle. Too much nitrogen causes the air to be unhealthy for humans and animals, and so is nature. Nitrogen overload creates more of the same, as I call it. The diversity of plants and animals disappears. We all know that nature is actually a kind of ecosystem, in which there is coherence and in which things are balanced, if it is right. If that is disturbed, there will be consequences in other places. We've talked a lot here about the bee strategy. It is not only there for the preservation of the bee, although it is also important, but it also means something for our food production. Disturbance in nature on such aspects has the potential to affect all kinds of areas and possibly also our food supply. It's our job to prevent that, too. The Council of State has underlined this once and for all. The ruling now affects the granting of authorisation in all sectors. For example, construction projects, energy transition, farms; everything you need a permit for. That also gives rise to a lot of uncertainty at the moment. It brings uncertainty to residents, farmers and entrepreneurs. It is urgent to ensure that we remove that uncertainty and at the same time take all the measures necessary to ensure that nature recovers. I would like to stress once again that this urgency is truly felt by the cabinet and that we also feel and take responsibility for tackling the problem of nitrogen. There are not always easy and quick solutions, as we have already mentioned in our letter. To see what line we are going to work along, this is firstly to invest in nature restoration and, in addition, to focus on a threshold for the nitrogen deposition with which projects with a small deposition can proceed, which I have just had a discussion about. Source measures must be taken, sometimes by the cabinet itself and sometimes by others. We are going to provide finance and regulation that will enable them to be taken into account. We have already announced in the letter that we are looking, for example, for a targeted reduction in speed in areas where this has an effect and for warm restructuring of companies on a voluntary basis. We are also going to invest in innovations for farmers who want to stay and who want to move forward, in order to bring the principles of circular farming closer. We have already made some resources available for this. In this way, we must regain balance in our economic activities and everything we want to develop there, and on the other hand the preservation and restoration of our nature. In the letter of 4 October, the cabinet also announced a number of things that we are going to do in concrete terms. I would like to clarify one point in particular. Mrs Lodders also had a question about this. The question is how the letter relates to the policy rule drawn up from the province. It is true that there is now some light between what we have stated in the letter on external netting and what has become the policy rule in the province. I can tell you that what's in the letter is leading. I want to be quite clear about that. That's the principle. That is not only what I think; I have also discussed this with the provinces and they agree with me. That is what we agreed on. Fortunately, we still have some time to adjust that properly. We have said that we are not yet setting up external netting in relation to agricultural holdings because a number of matters still need to be dealt with properly. That also gives us time to ensure that the policy rule is fully in sync with what is in the letter. But the appointment in the letter is leading.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u127	About resources. The Minister said that we also made funds available for this. I've studied the letter. What I see, above all, is that it mentions resources that were already available. But it is probably right to say that they can also be used for this purpose. Am I reading that right? Let me put it this way: are there any funds available now that were not available three weeks ago to solve the nitrogen problem?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u128	Mr Futselaar makes my next point every time. I was just about to explain the financial situation, but that's what I'm going to do with this interruption. We have, of course, already made money available through a number of schemes which also contribute to reducing the problem of nitrogen. We have already mentioned the warm clean-up of pig farming, money already provided for in the Climate Agreement, the 100 million for farms near Natura 2000 sites, and 100 million for peat meadows. We have the Young Farmers' Fund. There are also a number of things that contribute to the sustainability of livestock farming, and thus to a reduction in nitrogen deposition. So there are a lot of arrangements already. We do not start at zero, I say to Mr Futselaar. What he has also read is that the Cabinet is willing to make additional funds available if necessary. This will also be done by setting up a budget reserve in the autumn paper. Mr Futselaar now just wants to know what cash is on the table. I understand that, but I think we should turn the process around. I have asked the provinces, the sovereigns, the Commissioners, to start this process quickly now. What's going on? What is needed in terms of legal resources and financial resources? And then what's already available? That is not just about the Empire, by the way. That's true in the provinces, too. There are just existing arrangements, and you can just use them to do so. And then let's see what else we need. That seems to me to be a very good order of things. It's gonna be mapped out, and we're gonna be able to do the weighing together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u129	There is already at least one province that has said: at least we are not going to spend money on cleaning up livestock farms. And then I paraphrase, because the deputy in question said it in the Frisian. But: about resources. Yes, I'm in a hurry, because I think we need to speed up and that action will follow when money is available. Let me put it this way. I want to get one specific thing out of it, and that is nature restoration, because that is also the first thing the cabinet announced: we are working to speed that up. We know what needs to be repaired in Natura 2000 sites. That's all in those plans. Many provinces already have expansion plans in place. My conclusion would be: it is the easiest thing to do right now to make extra money available for it so that we can make a move now. And just maybe, if we can make that nature a little more robust, we'll even have to take a little less harsh source measures.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u130	Sure. That's exactly the conversation. It's not even the discussion I'm having with the provinces. We really need to look at how we can speed up some of the issues relating to the restoration of nature. And, yes, it is also about money, but it is also very often about sometimes legal obstacles to the smooth running of a number of things. For example, we are now considering whether we can actually take very targeted measures for hydrological matters, soil acquisition and equipment, so that they also contribute to this. But that is exactly what is happening in this area process. That's just part of it. If we have that in the picture and have a clear view of it, then we're going to work on it. But it's not always about money, I'll just say it to Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u131	In conclusion, Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u132	It's hard for me to understand anyway. All these restorative measures lie if it's okay even in the Ministry. They are literally concerned in the context of the Natura 2000 management plans. The overview of what needs to be done now to make a battle should even be there. Then it's just a matter of looking at how much extra investment we need to invest to make sure that it happens now and not in two years or four years or so let's be honest: we're talking about the provinces of young people in twenty years' time? Let us make sure that we can succeed now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u133	It doesn't seem like that's happening right now, but that's exactly what we're doing. Mr Futselaar only wants it now, all of us, today. Sometimes I just need a little time to sort things out. But I do not think there is any light between the urgency of Mr Futselaar and mine. We have about 1,200 remedial measures. That's right. Part of it is executed, part of it is still in the pipeline. Some of it goes a little rough. We are now going to look at the practical obstacles to faster implementation. We want to take it away. It could then be supplementary funding, for example when setting up buffer zones or something like that. But sometimes, for example, it also concerns measures or legal rules, in which we want to speed up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u134	I told the Minister that next week we will have the major debate on the choices to be made in order to resolve the nitrogen crisis. It seems to me that we need concrete targets: how much nitrogen reduction should we take into account? None of that is yet in the letter sent by the cabinet. I've asked questions about that. I do not see it in the written reply either. What are the specific objectives on which we must steer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u135	They depend on exactly what is needed in that area. I have to explain it a lot, but nitrogen isn't the same as CO. What is different with nitrogen compared with CO is that it is not so much about what you emit, but about where it comes from. In some situations you emit nitrogen, but it does not come down to such a degree in a nature reserve that the disadvantage is. That is why you really need to look very specifically at what is needed for an area. That's also different from one region to another. Mrs Ouwehand knows this very well, because it is very well in this matter. One area therefore has different objectives to achieve than the other, because there is already a difference in deposition or in the acidification that has already taken place in such an area. So I cannot impose one goal. That really needs to be looked at by area. We know what is needed for nature recovery and we know what needs to be realized. That's what it needs to be aimed at.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u136	I realize that very well. An area like De Peel is heavily overloaded with ammonia, so there the targets and therefore the interventions will have to be much more severe than in the areas that are less burdened. But then I still find it a bit complicated, because this way you have a very bad picture of what needs to be done. Can the Minister say, for example, that 90% of the critical deposition values must have been achieved? Then she's talking about all the natural areas. For all nature reserves, there is a critical value that you should not exceed. Such objectives could be expressed by the Commission. Then we know a little better what to steer and what choices we will have to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u137	But then again it is at what rate, because there are areas that are very overburdened. If I stop everything there in one go... In some areas, this critical deposition value has been exceeded so much that I cannot do so. Also, you really have to look at what is needed by area, what is the pace at which you can realize things, and what is realistic. That is exactly what I want to design together with the provinces in that area-oriented process.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u138	Finalizing, Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u139	When will we have these concrete goals?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u140	In the design of these area-oriented processes, the choices and considerations are made. Then we'll talk about this, too. In the letter we indicated that we are doing it "as soon as possible." Wherever it's possible, we should do it right away. I've asked the sovereigns to map the area processes well in a maximum of six months and to make sure we know what to do. But where it can go faster, please.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u141	I heard the Minister say, for a moment, that there was some disagreement with the province.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u142	"Disturbance" is not the right word.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u143	No, but those are my words. At least that's how I translated it for myself. I hear Mr Futselaar from the SP Group saying that it is a difference of interpretation; so be it. Here's what's important. I've seen policy rules from the provinces. Would the Minister at any time and if so, at what time? Can you indicate on what points the letter from the cabinet last Friday does not correspond to those policy rules?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u144	I can do that already. That's what's in the question of what the latent space is in a permit. There's a difference. In the letter we indicated quite clearly how to see this for stables, for example. Some of the stables there are not yet fully filled, for example with regard to phosphate problems or as a result. Are you gonna take that space out of the permit, yes or no? The answer is, no, we're not gonna do that. In the policy of the province it could be read that this is the case, but that is not the case. That stable that's there, it's just part of your license. If there's room for a new stable and if you still have a permit, that's another story. But we're not gonna take any space from the stables that are standing there right now in the permit or whatever.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u145	Those policy rules are quite technical, but I have taken a good look at them. There are situations in the Netherlands that are going back on 1994. That was a quarter of a generation ago. Surely it cannot be the intention of this policy that farmers should go all the way back to 1994 in order to move forward in the future? I understand that the Minister cannot answer that straight away today, but my appeal to her is to get the Ministry to take a good look at these policy rules. Could they be placed next to last Friday's cabinet's letter, looking at whether these policies correspond to the letter and at least to the purpose set out in last Friday's letter?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u146	Let me be clear: what is in the letter is what we agreed to. How that works out exactly, how far you have to go back, I can't see right now. If, as a result of a policy rule, you have to go back in time, that policy rule must correspond to the letter. We agree on that. We're gonna make that right with each other. I will get in touch with the provinces about what is happening here, because this is a matter of licensing at provincial level. So I'm not talking about that, but I'll get in touch with the provinces.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u147	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u148	If the Minister can report this to us before the nitrogen debate, would she be willing to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u149	I'll see what's possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u150	I just heard the Minister say the nitrogen standards are place-bound. In one place you can of course lose more than in the other place; that is obvious. On the basis of what measurements does she assess at which locations in the Netherlands there is enough space and where there is overload, to use her term?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u151	Then I'll come right to the next block, the RIVM. It's all gonna go down on its own.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u152	What a teamwork, huh? Like I felt it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u153	The AERIUS model makes it possible to calculate the deposition of a particular activity in a given area. It will determine whether there is deposition. So if you're not, you don't have any nitrogen problems. If there is a deposition, you have the choice of a number of measures to compensate. The AERIUS model is drawn up by RIVM. That model uses measurements from the measurement network. I have already said that we intend to increase the number of measurements to ensure that we get an increasingly sophisticated model.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u154	This is the answer I was expecting. So it has to do with 1. with a model and 2. with measurements. I wonder how reliable that model is in the eyes of the Minister. That's question one. And my second question is: how reliable does it consider the measurements that are being made now? If it does not also take into account the possibility that if we extend those measurements, then it appears that there is much more possible than now? Maybe it is very shocking and it really shows mispolicy, including you, that you did not start to extend those measurements, that you did not start to investigate that calculation model, that measurement model, before you now flatten half of the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u155	That math model wasn't from yesterday. That's a long time ago. This also applies to a number of measurement points. This is the best we have now in terms of opinion and how you translate it into a model. Can we do more readings there? Yeah, we're gonna do that. But I have no reason to say that the model is scientifically incorrect or anything like that. This is based on scientific insight. I'm not a scientist. Those who draw up and use that model are. We have also asked: if there are more measurements, will that help? Then they say: it's always good to get more insight into that. But that does not mean that the model is not sound or scientifically justified.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u156	Has the Minister ever compared or compared this and then looked at how the counterpart of the AERIUS measurement model works in Germany? Or isn't she aware of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u157	Questions have been asked about a Danish model. Mrs. Lodders did. I would like to look at that a little bit more to give a good answer. So I'm also taking it to next week's debate so I can give you a little more insight into that. It was too short-term now. Then I really need to dive in more. I'm not gonna do justice if I give you half an answer here. That is what I will do during that debate. But we also look at other models. But once again, we need to understand ourselves here with those who simply have the most sense of it. I really do. I'm not. Those really are the scientists who work with that. They say this is scientifically validated. This is also evident from international reviews that take place on it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u158	Then we'll come back to this next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u159	Exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u160	Speaking of nitrogen again, I'm gonna take my chances. It's about the critical deposition value. The lowest critical deposition value used is 500 moles. I continue to stress that the Council of State has already given room for projects with a deposition of 0,05 mol.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u161	I'm not denying that either. I am not saying that a threshold is not possible. I'm just saying, if you're gonna take a threshold, you're gonna have to counter it to compensate. All those small pennies that can become a lot of euros, you also have to compensate elsewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u162	If a project provides a deposition of 0.05 moles or less, it will therefore meet the space already offered by the Council of State in advance. And that's one way to untie those projects. And just to give an impression, because they're all abstractions: 0,05 moles is a sixth of a goose poop. You need six geese that poop once, and then you've got 0.05 moles. And that's a hundredth of the critical deposition value. What are we talking about?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u163	Mr Bishop suggests that I would not want such a thing myself, or that I would stop it because I would not feel like it. You can assume that I have really turned everything upside down to see what I can do to make sure that we can get some things back on track. Only then will I always get out of it, and not only me but also the lawyers I consult on it all, that I cannot do so without taking compensatory measures against it. Once again, I have even asked for information from the Council of State in order to gain even more insight into this. There is also a difference in time: that you introduce threshold values rather than some source measures. I want what we do to be legally sustainable. I really think that is the responsibility of all of us to society. But the suggestion that I wouldn't want something... That's really not true, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u164	To conclude, because this is a repetition of an earlier interrupting debate. Mr. Bishop.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u165	Oh, but it's also a detailing of it and it's still important. Look, what's the critical deposition value? The limit above which there is a risk that the quality of the habitat is significantly affected by acidifying and/or fertilising influence of atmospheric nitrogen deposition. That's the critical deposition value. We're talking 0.05 moles of a dog's-dest part, about the lowest critical deposition value. So we can talk about compensation, but it doesn't have a negative impact on the habitat.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u166	I think I'm gonna keep repeating myself. You can say that one thing doesn't do anything, but a lot of those little things together mean a lot more. I would almost like to put the question back to Mr Bishop: if we are going to introduce it now and see that it is not allowed in six months' time, is that the risk that he wants to run? He also wants to follow the rules that we have established with each other and make sure that someone else does not suffer if we do not clarify them. Anyway, I realize I'm not the one asking the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u167	Maybe he'll come back to that in second term. Mrs. Bromet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u168	I heard the Minister switch to the next block, without observing the dinner break and without having answered all my questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u169	No, the RIVM block. Part of the nitrogen was the RIVM debate, I'm just saying.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u170	Okay, because in my contribution I had asked a number of questions that have not been answered. One of them is next. The minister is actually saying that the provinces are now going to make land-based inventories. On that basis, plans will be made. On the basis of these non-existent plans, she has already thought that the purchase of animal rights will only be voluntary. Is that realistic? What happens if it's not enough in an area?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u171	That's the what-if question. Let me just mention that one. It is cabinet policy that it is important that this is done on a voluntary basis. I have just indicated that the warm clean-up of pig farming is also a voluntary scheme. I asked for and got extra money for this during the Climate Agreement negotiations, because we see that there is a lot of enthusiasm for it. On the other hand, we do not want to give zero to those who want to be eligible. So we say: if there is any enthusiasm for it, we must try to provide for it. So I think Mrs Bromet is getting ahead of herself again when she says that it should all be compulsory now. Mr Futselaar has asked who rather than where the peak tax is. I think that's a bit of a bad word. It is about those where much deposition takes place and so on. I know that there are really conversations at provincial level with parties that say: okay, maybe I want to stop here or stop completely or a relocation. You can make a lot of hits there, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u172	The Remkes Committee gave a different opinion on this. I would also like to mention this here, because in the conversation we had as the House of Representatives with him, too, Remkes said that we should give the provinces a well-stocked instrument case. There are two instruments which are not yet available and which, according to the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, are crucial. One: the expropriation title. As GroenLinks, we are not in a position to welcome the compulsory expropriation of farmers. It's really good to start with those who want to quit anyway. But it's all about us getting nature back on its feet in the end. If this requires expropriation, because no farmer wants to leave an area, you should also give the provinces the opportunity to do so. The second is the budget, but we have already discussed this in the debate with the SP. GroenLinks really thinks that additional resources are needed, because a province that is sent to the farmer without money and without resources can do nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u173	I believe that the latter has already been refuted in response to an interruption by Mr Futselaar. This first point brings me back to the video at Nieuwsuur, where there was also a deputy of GroenLinks, Mr Grashoff, next to a farm that was after a Natura 2000 site. That farm had not left, but had applied a number of innovations in its barn system which allowed it to stay there. It is so black and white to say: this is the only way it can be done. Are companies gonna stop? Yeah, they're gonna stop. That's what's happening now. We are even doing so in a way that makes it possible for them to do so more quickly than if there were no such arrangement. Is that the only solution to this issue? No.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u174	Mrs. Bromet, finalizing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u175	It is not a question of whether companies are going to stop, but of whether companies are going to stop. That is the question and we will see what it brings us, because as long as these companies do not stop, all these projects will be shut down. That's the nice leverage that's on this issue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u176	The Green Group in the European Parliament is responsible for that last remark. I would like to inform the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance that some other source measures are possible. I understand that this is happening, but the reduction in the speed limit in a given area has also been mentioned in the letter. Remkes will later present the opinions on aviation and shipping. You can assume that we will all take these opinions into account in the steps that still have to be taken.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u177	We, the PVV, regret that more and more farmers are stopping and that this increase in scale continues. The nice thing about Dutch agriculture is that as a smaller farm with perhaps 80 dairy cows you can still have a nice life. That existence is increasingly being undermined. These new rules are constantly increasing the scale, and each time it is the little ones who cannot make millions of investments and therefore have to stop. I wonder if the fact that all these entrepreneurs are considering stopping is not very often the result of bullying with all those rules. Don't these farmers just think "I see it as a small farmer because of all those rules no longer sit in this country"? Hasn't the Minister himself contributed to the fact that so many entrepreneurs now want to stop?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u178	I agree with Mr Madlener that it is the beauty of this country that there is so much diversity in agriculture. We are always talking about agriculture in a rather generic way, but there are a lot of sectors underneath it, and there are also a lot of differences in these sectors. I think that is also the strength of Dutch agriculture. I see that different choices are being made as well. One farmer decides to go organic farmers and the other to start a mixed farm. There are a lot of different variants. I think there should also be room for all those variants and that's something I'm trying to do. The SGP asked me if I could take a good look at those switches to biological. Yeah, we should take a good look at that, too. Does this mean that there will only be scaling-up? I cannot deny, I think, that there have been a number of movements in the past to that scale increase. Sometimes that is just a choice of the entrepreneur himself. It is not something that is merely created by state policy. At the same time, we also have various rules that frame that. Authorisation is very often granted at a decentralised level, at a provincial level, but sometimes also at a municipal level, and it also contains rules on the size of a company in a given area. So there's more to it than that. I think that you need to cherish diversity, and that is why we also have rules to ensure that certain things cannot become too big. Sometimes it is also just a choice of an entrepreneur himself. If it wants to do so, and it can do so within the environmental rules and in the environmental laws, the question again is: should we ban it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u179	My question was: to what extent does this constant regulatory pressure contribute to this? First we had the phosphate system and now we're getting this again. Every time there are new rules for all these agricultural entrepreneurs. Just those small entrepreneurs who don't have the money to seal huge stables airtight and to place air scrubbers, think: I just want to leave my cows in the meadow and just run my manure across the land. It is precisely those entrepreneurs who are going to die again! We also see it in the reform of pig farming. There will be 5% less pigs, but 50% fewer entrepreneurs. So you're not cleaning up the pigs, you're cleaning up the entrepreneurs! I am afraid that will happen again now and that the same will happen to the farmers as to the fishermen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u180	As far as the reform of pig farming is concerned, that seems to me to be quite impossible, because we are going to remove those animal rights. The amount of animals on those farms, we're gonna get them out, too. They can't go back to another place. It is not, therefore, possible to achieve an increase in scale. To realize that seems impossible to me. That is why, as a government, you must also look carefully at what a particular scheme does on other points. Fortunately, however, I also see quite a bit of diversity and that seems to me to be right for the agriculture that we have in the Netherlands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u181	In conclusion, Mr Madlener.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u182	Yes, I also see'some diversity', which is indeed a nice description. I still see some diversity, but it's getting less and less. I am so afraid that all these rules that are now being poured out on this agricultural sector will lead to a new scale increase. I'm hearing "adapting barn systems" again. We've had the floors; they had to be low on emissions. Now there's another investigation into that. Soon we'll get the air scrubbers and the stables again: it won't stop! And why is that? Isn't it wonderful that we have this sector the way we have it? They also create our landscape. That also offers opportunities. We can fit that very nicely into the landscape with woodwalls. Why don't we? Why do we always go back to bullying these farmers and why don't we just stop doing that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u183	I leave Mr Madlener's qualification to him. I think we should keep a close eye on the consequences of our actions, our policies. That's true. At the same time, we also allow certain adjustments to be made. For example, we have now also opened up a subsidy scheme for these stables so that we can accommodate those farmers in order to make that investment. That is, I think, the reciprocity that should be in it. Sometimes we have to ask a few questions from farmers. That's right, I'm not denying that. But then we also have to make it possible for it to happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u184	I welcome the fact that the Minister just indicated in the interrupting debate with Mrs Bromet: the farmer in the video, who invested in his stables, can stay there. For the VVD it is very important that this farmer is helped, in the financial sense, and that if such measures are requested, he cannot fall over. I trust that the Minister will support this very warmly. The question I have to the Minister is about the policy rule. There's a lack of clarity. I have heard the Minister say: there is light in between and I am going to make sure that there is clarity. Mr Geurts has indicated to the Minister that it is not entirely certain whether she can do so in the next few days. But I would really like to have the Minister's promise that the policy rule will not be opened up until that clarity is there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u185	I can promise.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u186	Thank you. And then finalizing the question...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u187	That's about the stables, let me get this straight. That policy rule is about external netting, but the part that is seen on the stables cannot yet be dealt with externally with agricultural holdings. So on that part that rule doesn't open until it's properly adapted.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u188	I was looking for that promise. Thank you, I'll tell the Minister. I had another question about the conservation objective. Is the minister still going to come to that, or is that also in this block? Because the question I asked in the first term was: all efforts are needed to determine what objectives should be achieved, and I would like to hear from the Minister how she is preparing for the opinion of the Remkes Committee in May.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u189	By the way, by the source... I'm just gonna find out what Mrs. Lodder sees on it. Excuse me, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u190	Then I repeat my question from the first term. I said that all the efforts are needed to identify what goals we really need to achieve. The conservation objectives of the Birds and Habitats Directives have been overgrown in some areas. So what will the Minister himself do, in anticipation of the Remkes Committee, which will deliver its second opinion in May?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u191	That is indeed the question. Is there a national headline or something on the conservation objectives? That was a bit of a question. Are there any additional issues in relation to what we should do on the basis of the Birds and Habitats Directives? Of course, we've looked at that too. I wasn't the first one to look at that. It happened in 2008, it happened in 2011 and in 2017 it happened again at the stress test or, I'm sorry, the fitcheck I always mix them up to be sure. A number of further adjustments were made in 2011 which resulted from this. We will not go beyond national headlines, for example, or that additional conservation objectives would have been formulated, other than what we need to do under the Birds and Habitats Directives. So that has already been done, but that does not mean that we will not continue to discuss it with Brussels. Sometimes, for example, under ecological conditions, a particular plant species or species may no longer exist in an area. Then the Birds and Habitats Directives say that at the moment that is the case for ecological reasons, climate change or something like that, you can talk about whether you should maintain it there. But then the Commission says that you have to do it in another place, that you have to protect it there. This cannot be done for economic reasons. If you want to do that, the check is really heavy. I understand that, because those are the agreements we made with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u192	If I have understood correctly, the Remkes Committee's second opinion also addresses this point. My question to the Minister was to think ahead of time about how she can get on with this herself. We will certainly come back to this in the debate next Thursday.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u193	Very good. It's actually a continuous conversation we're having with Brussels. I am also curious to see how the Remkes Committee looks at this. We are again looking at how, if we no longer have certain species for ecological reasons, we will have to deal with them again, not for economic reasons, in a particular area. Fine to continue the debate on this next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u194	I would like to go through the point made by Mr Madlener. Also to the great concern of the Party for Animals send the advice of Remkes, but also the arrangements that the Cabinet has already announced without adjustment on scale increase. The Minister cites a farmer who actually works extensively and with grazing. It's possible. Then I think you can stay close to a Natura 2000 area if the total number of animals falls, but it looks like the Minister is throwing that into one pile with whatever else could be: very large stables with low-emission floors, pot-tight, and an air washer on them. Should she not make a distinction by saying: you can do stable adjustments and then you might be able to sit down, but one stable adjustment is in the direction of the type of agriculture we want, also for animal welfare and so on, and the other of course not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u195	I believe that this is precisely the discussions that are taking place at local level. The authorisation of a stable takes place at local level. I'm not. It is simply the province, or the municipality in some cases, but mostly the province, which grants the permit. Then, of course, there is the discussion about whether this stable is fitable in the landscape that exists, how it relates to other activities in that area and what happens when it is next to a Natura 2000 site. I also really think that this consideration should be made there. If I put that very generic across the Netherlands, it does not do justice to the differences at local level that exist. Locally there are instruments for that. The province can just take that into the permit. That's what happens in practice. That video was a good example, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u196	If you help farmers to switch to the manner of farmers we have seen in the video, the Animal Party makes less objection to the subsidies allocated to such innovations. But it's one hope. That's why I'd like to know something about the Minister. I quoted Grubbenvorst. Our analysis is that this stable is Remkesproof: 35,000 pigs and 1 million chickens. He's in the same category as the farmer we saw at Nieuwsuur, who takes his cows outside and who farms extensively. I think you should make a distinction in that. Of the Grubbenvorst-like states, I can say that the Party for Animals does not want them. If you think that stable adjustments should also be possible with a kind of subsidy for those smaller farmers and you want the support of the Party for the Animals, then it is really necessary for this to be only about stables of smaller farmers, and not about situations such as Grubbenvorst.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u197	It is clear to me what the Party wants and does not want for the Animals. To be honest, I didn't expect anything else either, so Mrs Ouwehand is very consistent in that respect. Yesterday I also took a look at the case Grubbenvorst. This is a licence issued eleven years ago. So that's not something very recent. That stable is now built. This was also possible at local level. I see more and more that there is now a debate about what fits into the landscape, for example, or about the size of a company. At local level, this can be very well considered. That's not one blueprint, they're just different models. One time it will indeed be more extensive. If Mrs Ouwehand has looked carefully, she will see that we also want to see, if you are in such a Natura 2000 area, a good look at how, for example, there can be extravagance. That is also stated in the Climate Agreement. Extensification is a way of reconciling nature and agriculture. I see good examples of this in the region. There's another model in another place. I really think we should leave this to the local consideration. That is where the people who know exactly what is going on there, what considerations are being made and what interests are there. I think we should leave those considerations at that local level.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u198	Finally, Mr President. I would like the Minister to rule it out, or say that the choices that are to be made no longer lead to further scaling up. So yes, in Grubbenvorst they got that permit eleven years ago, but the stable is now considered as Remkesproof. If you don't rule out that kind of stables and say we don't want them, a new stable of the kind in Grubbenvorst can be granted. I have already seen analyses in which a large number of animals can be put into very large stables on an industrial site. I think the Minister should say: that is what we want and that is what we do not want.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u199	The concept of "scale enlargement" is a collection of all kinds of terms together. Mrs Ouwehand presents a number of examples. I also know organic farmers who do scale-up and want that scale-up very much. Is Mrs Ouwehand no longer allowed to do that? Isn't that okay? This discussion is way too layered to just put one big line through it where you say: this is the only way it's allowed. I think that if we do it that way, Mrs Ouwehand might say: I am fine with that. I understand where she stands and I hear it here, but I find the discussion a little too easy to put it that way at once. Sometimes scaling up, for example in an extensive way, can be a much better way of achieving emission targets, with a certain stable system. And then I shouldn't allow it because it's "greater than it was"?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u200	These are rhetorical questions, Mrs Ouwehand. You want to respond again, but you've already been three times. You may return to it in the second term. I actually want the Minister to continue her speech, and to indicate whether she is almost at the end of the block on the problem of nitrogen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u201	Yes, because I've already done quite a bit in the interrupts in between. I'm just browsing through my papers. I have also mentioned the area-based approach. I also mentioned the source measures. The question was whether other sectors would participate. Yeah, that seems pretty clear to me. Voluntaryity has already been discussed. In my view, Mr President, I have already answered all the questions in between. Mr Futselaar asked if the peak chargers were in sight. Yeah, in some cases it is and in some cases it's a little less. So we need to get a good look at that at local level, and we are going to do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u202	Was that the answer to the question you were going to ask the interrupting microphone, Mr. Futselaar? I see that is not the case. Then I note that the Minister has come to the end of this block. Members will be able to intervene on this subject one last time. Then I'm gonna suspend for dinner. Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u203	I was waiting and wondering if the minister would go any further into RIVM. 'Cause she was ready for that when all the interruptions came. I would like to know a little more about this. The Minister has promised that we will measure in more places. Well, I have no objection to that, because that might save some motions. Are we informed where it is measured and where it is financed in the short term?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u204	I am not going to determine where all this is going to take place; that is what I think of those who know more about it than I do. How we're going to finance that will be made known to you in due course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u205	The opposition should not try, I would almost say, to shout such a thing without having a cover. In a budget debate, that is also a bit strange. To be honest, I am not very interested in these measurement points, because more has been said about RIVM during the debate. Words like "schimmig" have been used. I would like to ask the following from this minister, but also from the cabinet. I would like a written statement from the Minister responsible for nitrogen, the Minister responsible for RIVM, who, in my opinion, is the Minister for Health and Sport, and the Minister for Education, Culture and Science. What exactly do they think of the scientific method used by RIVM in the measurement of nitrogen, and the criticism that has come about in recent times? For this is so polarizing, both in this Chamber and in society, that I believe that a clear statement should be made about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u206	I think I have just been very clear with Mr Baudet in the interruption. I don't think I could be much clearer. The way others look at it is up to them. That is the debate you had with each other yesterday. I said that the model used by the RIVM has been validated. Based on international reviews it has been said that this is a model that you can use well in this way. Are there any refinements to be applied to that? Yes. I'm gonna get more measuring points. But according to me, I've been quite clip-and-ready: this is the model we're doing it with.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u207	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u208	I also have many wishes in the area of NVWA, as there will be more capacity there. I was wondering: if I'm going to make a lot of misfit here and say that the NVWA is operating shady, are we going to get resources for that too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u209	No, no. I'm gonna go back a little bit. This has even once been a motion from Mr Grashoff. Mr Futselaar knows the same thing. I would hope that Mr Futselaar is pleased that we are now putting this into practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u210	I see that Mr Geurts accepts it. Mr. Baudet, a personal fact?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u211	I have a personal fact, because I feel addressed. The Minister brings me into the discussion and explicitly mentions my name. I would just like to make it very clear that I am indeed questioning the RIVM calculation model. I find that untenable and unacceptable. The margin of error, between 50% and 100%, is not acceptable. We will discuss this further in the hearing and discuss it further next week. So I'm gonna leave it at that now, but I'm gonna announce: this is what I'm gonna keep going. This isn't right, and we're gonna expose it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u212	That is what you said, and I think that is what the question was about. Mr. Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u213	I still have a point about nitrogen. The last few days, since Friday afternoon the letter went out, I get a lot of questions. What I get from that is that a lot of people are worried that areas are being completely emptied by external parties buying up ammonia rights. Could the Minister now respond to that or, if it takes a little longer to respond now, will she be prepared to do so for the nitrogen debate next week?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u214	It is precisely in order to prevent all kinds of wild-west actions coming now, so to speak, around farms that are bought up that parties are passing by with very deep pockets of pie and there are all kinds of things that affect the farmer or the society that we do not consider desirable, that we do not open up the external netting, as I said in the letter. Here we need to be very clear about how we do this in a responsible way. We must prevent all kinds of side effects from occurring, the consequences of which we cannot properly regulate or absorb. This requires good thought. That's why I haven't opened that external salad yet. Together with the provinces, we still have to look very closely at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u215	That is a very clear answer; thank you to the Minister for that. But does that also mean that the Minister will come back to the Chamber this year to ask what that will look like?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u216	Sure, absolutely. Speaking of Mr Geurts, I forgot one point about nitrogen. He had asked with Mrs Dik-Faber to improve communication. I understand that there are quite a lot of questions and that there is a lot of unrest. People don't know where they can go. The members also asked about a telephone and online helpdesk. The helpdesk will open up to anyone who has any questions about it next Monday. We will also communicate where exactly that can be found. I can call it here, but I think we should do it separately. There is also a separate website. Information can also be found on the website of the government. That's what we're gonna communicate well. There are the most frequently asked questions, so people can look at them themselves. On the website reichsoverheid.nl and also on rvo.nl there is a link to this website. We will ensure that there is telephone access on Monday and that it is clear where the information can be found. Mr President, that was the nitrogen block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u217	Thank you. Then I suggest we suspend for dinner break. The Minister has three more blocks: nature, fisheries and animal welfare. We'll start at 8:10.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u218	The next item is the continuation of the debate on the budget for Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality. We had stayed in the first term of the Minister of LNV. Welcome again. I would ask you to continue with your speech. You would have stayed by the block of nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u219	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We have indeed arrived at nature. That's always a good subject. I have to say, however, that this is perhaps the budgetary treatment of the tree. There are lots of parties that are happy with trees. I even got a national tree plan from GroenLinks and the SP. I've been looking at that with a great deal of interest. I also saw that the plan isn't just for me. I have noted that there are also some recommendations for the VNG. There are quite some aspects that I think it is right that we should go into a little more detail at some point. It would be a little too short a turn if I were to include everything in it now. Of course, we are also working on a forest strategy ourselves. Let us also include the ideas mentioned in this debate. I can just imagine that I could also take on board a number of things, some good ideas from the plan, but we're going to take a good look at that afterwards. A few more suggestions have been made. Mrs. Dik-Faber wants the baby tree, or the baby tree on his English as Mr. Von Martels would say. Maybe a baby tree will lead to a baby tree. You can never know that, of course. It would be interesting to examine that connection. Mr Von Martels himself also had a number of ideas, for example on how to plant more trees around farms, woodwalls. We have, of course, already discussed this in the context of the landscape elements. I also announced at the time that we would like to open up the CAP to this. Now that this seems to be taking too long, we are going to consider whether a subsidy scheme can take a first step of some sort, not to lose the moment. So a lot of ideas about the tree have been put forward. I would suggest that we simply include these issues in the development of the forest or tree strategy and that we discuss them in greater detail. I have been invited on many points by these and others, but I would like to return an invitation to your Chamber. I suggest that with the National Tree Festival we all plant a tree together. I think it's a symbolic moment to do that. And even Mr Madlener can come with us. That sounds like a lot of fun.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u220	I am a great supporter of trees and also of the woodwalls, for which I have often been a strong supporter. I have a question and a comment about that, because it is trees that grow very well in a nitrogen-rich environment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u221	Depends on which tree you're talking about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u222	Most trees. Let's put it this way. Where there is a lot of nitrogen in a nature reserve, they suffer from trees, and they have to leave. So it's a little cynical actually, but we all love trees.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u223	I look forward to planting a tree with Mr Madlener. And Mr. Graus can come too!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u224	There's a very grave mistake being made here. Mr. Madlener is in the middle of it, but Mr. Geurts and I were invited to the budget last year by this minister to plant trees. And Mr. Futselaar would plant one of the first trees in a gnome uniform with a red pointed cap. Mr Futzelaar, that's what you said.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u225	That's a personal fact. Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u226	Mr. Chairman. This is a personal fact, because I am not being justiced here. I said I would if the 15 million trees I asked for were planted.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u227	Aha!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u228	That is a challenge for this minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u229	Meanwhile, he has increased the quota to 17 million trees, so he's making it more and more hard to get actually. That is also a bit the conclusion, but I have to say: this is going to give an extra incentive to just plant so many trees. Let's see how far we're gonna get. But thank you all for agreeing to the invitation to plant a tree. Totally fine. Then we come very specifically to a number of other things. Firstly, the issue of national parks. I sent a letter to the Chamber about this some time ago. It's also a subject...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u230	Sorry. There is an interruption by Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u231	They've just been interrupted over the trees. I thought I'd wait for the cube. But if this is indeed an intermediate cube, then it might be easier now. I said in my contribution about the trees: the cabinet is going to bet on capturing and storing carbon. I said there really isn't a creature that can do that better than trees. In my opinion, CCS is no different than carbon capture and storage or CO2. Can the Minister comment on my suggestion that trees should be used for this purpose, in order to use this budget, among other things, for the conservation and planting of trees?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u232	That was later in my block, but I'm gonna get that involved right now. That's right. Mr Wassenberg has asked for CCS resources instead of being stored in the ground in the tree, so to speak. It's true that trees are a very good way to capture CO. At the same time, we also need CCS to achieve the goals of the Climate Agreement. In other debates, there has been a lot of discussion about how much that should be and how we will or will not be doing so. There are also other ways you can use CO. The greenhouse horticulture needs it, too. I believe that working on a forest tree strategy can also contribute to the retention of carbon, but that does not rule out the fact that we also need CCS to meet the objectives of the Climate Agreement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u233	I have indeed had a number of debates on CCS with the Minister of EZK. That's why I liked trying with the Minister of LNV for once. It is about using all kinds of high-tech solutions, which cost a lot of electricity or energy, while trees do it for free. And in that process of photosynthesis, trees also supply oxygen. Why don't you kill yourself in an industrial plant? The minister says that trees do indeed store CO, so in so far as you might consider it a form of CCS. That is why my question is: can you also invest CCS money in trees? That was my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u234	Yeah, but then you get to the point where it looks like we don't need CCS to meet Paris' goals anymore. Once again, I am not going to do the whole discussion that has been held with the Minister of EZK. I do not think we can escape using CCS if we want to achieve those goals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u235	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u236	Finalizing, Mr. Chairman. Does the Minister agree with me that you can consider trees as CCS, that this is a form of CCS?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u237	That will be very interesting, because then Mr Wassenberg will tell my colleague from EZK that Mrs Schouten said that trees can be used for CCS. I have recognised that trees store CO and that that is also a good reason to look at more trees, but that is next to the Cabinet plans for CCS. The national parks are a beautiful subject and also an assignment in the coalition agreement. We have spent quite a long time looking at how we can mobilise resources for this. I thought that was important, because I understand that if the national parks want to take some steps forward, they also need resources to do so. We have now been able to release 2 million a year for three years, also in support of the quality impulse of the national parks. Mr Moorlag asked if that was structural money. It's not that. It's three times two million, so six million in total. Nor can I bake sweet sandwiches; it is not that I have all kinds of money on the budget to make it structural. I do hear Mr Moorlag's question to make it clear what is needed to go through with it. This has to do with how these national parks see their future and what subjects they want to work on. I think it is fine to make that clear with them, and I do not get the money straight, but we must be honest about it too, but then it can be involved in a new cabinet negotiation. Then at least the information is ready, so that people know what it might cost if you want something with those national parks. Then that information is also available.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u238	Deep down in my heart, I would like to have structural funding for the national parks. I think it is our national pride, from the PVV to GroenLinks and the SP, because many trees also live in the national parks. You can set up a whole tree about how important these national parks are, but I'm not gonna do that. I would like to see structural funding. Another argument is that I would seriously fail my predecessor as spokesperson of nature, Lutz Jacobi, if I didn't make myself felt for those national parks. I appreciate the Minister's hand-out. We don't have to pay cash here. I have heard very well that the Minister has said that she doesn't have anything in the pocket for me, so there is no way out of the pocket. But if the minister says "I'm gonna talk to them," I appreciate it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u239	That's what I'm gonna do. This will potentially involve some kind of scenarios. I do not know exactly how we will do that, but I do know: what are the ambitions and what would it cost? That is something you can also involve in a subsequent formation or something like that, so that it is clear what that should mean if you have ambitions in that area.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u240	I would appreciate it if we could also do an exercise looking at third-party funding. In the atmosphere of nature, the Postal Code lottery sometimes does something. If it can't be directly out of the pocket, then out of the box must be thought. So that is also my appeal to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u241	We always try to think out of the box. Out of the pocket is new; I think that is a creative thought by Mr Moorlag.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u242	Not to mention "the cat from the tree." Congratulations to the Minister for the fact that she is now actually moving on with the national parks. It's beautiful. When are we expected to pass on to national parks a number of world-class national parks? Of course, we have a lot of national parks now. How does the Minister see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u243	I'm going to inform the Chamber before the end of the year. We are now in consultation with the parties involved: what does that mean; we now have money and what business can we do with it? Before the end of the year, I would like to have the arrangements in which the parks are clarified and then I will inform your Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u244	While we're all giving advice on national parks... I would like to urge the Minister once again to talk to her colleague, the Secretary of State for EZ, because I am convinced that we can do much more about tourism in national parks. But every time I bring it up here, the Minister rightly says "I'm not about tourism," and every time I bring it up, the Secretary of State rightly says "I'm not about national parks." I have the feeling that when we finance the collection of natural values we miss opportunities because the boxes are so separate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u245	The Secretary of State for EZK is my neighbor. So we talk regularly. Just before I came here, she even wished me a great deal of success in the budget debate. So that's all going very well. We are of course already having that conversation with the national parks, so that we can see what the function for recreation is. They also really have a function in recreation; they see that for themselves. I really can't promise that there will be any means to do so. That's someone else's. But the function of recreation is absolutely included in the conversations. Then there was a very specific question from Mr von Martels: could what is covered by UNESCO biosphere be supported by these means? He specifically mentioned the Maasheggen. UNESCO areas which are not national parks cannot be eligible for this. The National Parks Bureau is currently exploring how it can play a supporting role for UNESCO areas. This can be done, for example, by setting up a "Man and the Biosphere" coordination point at a National Parks Bureau. So these resources are really for the national parks, but the National Parks Bureau is once again looking at how it can provide some practical support. I have already discussed the issue of CCS in the interrupting debate with Mr Wassenberg. Then I come to Mr Moorlag's point on the ground bench. He indicated that the transitions that are now being deployed and the like could also mean something for the agricultural land. I think that's an interesting thought. He asked me if I would be willing to consider whether the investment fund could be used for this purpose. That investment fund has been given some sort of mythical proportion; it can be used for anything. I'm just trying to stay away from that a little bit, because before you know it, you're in all kinds of other discussions about who else has been crown princess or princesses of such ideas. But the idea of using land to achieve important policy goals is, of course, certain. That is, of course, one of the means. With the decentralisation of nature policy, provinces have also been placed in the position to use land for the purposes of, for example, the Netherlands Nature Network. In the context of the vision, we also involve, for example, matters such as nature-inclusive agriculture. I do see the idea behind it: how could you develop this idea a little further? So I would very much like to look, together with the provinces, at how we can use the ground tools more effectively, and what is needed for that. So that's how I want to look at how to use land strategically. In some provinces it happens, I know. That is not the case everywhere. I want to see if I can help with that and how we can think it through.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u246	The direction is good, but I would like to say and ask: does the Minister realise that there is a huge task? That is what I said in the first term. Think of afforestation, water, peat meadows and mobility, among agricultural entrepreneurs. Then I really think you should have a more robust ground pot, especially in order to avoid things like expropriation and such. If you can move farmers and offer perspective, possibly even with the use of the Land Planning Act, it is preferable to expropriation. That is why I urge the Minister to see if she can get some more robustness in that. That is why I referred to that national investment fund, which already has many fathers...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u247	Yeah, that money's been spent a lot!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u248	But I think that's gonna take a hell of a lot of money.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u249	I don't know about that last one. On the one hand you get land, and on the other hand you sell the land again. It's not like what's in the ground bench has to stay there forever. So that can just walk around on its own. So we need to look again at whether all this is going to cost a lot of resources. But I really want to take a closer look with the provinces at the idea that land is important in a number of transitions that we are working on. You want it to be used properly, by analogy with all the tasks that exist, as Mr Moorlag also says. We'll also see how we can help with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u250	I think there is a real need for a robust amount of money, and not to be applauded, because that fund is not for exploitation. That fund is real for investment. But it's also true that you have to have a big ground pot before you can turn it off again. So it's not really about small beer. I'll give you that, but I do appreciate the step and the movement that the Minister is making. I also appreciate the fact that she also feels it is necessary for us to exercise ground mobility in the rural area.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u251	I agree with that, but I am not yet ready to say that there is still a great deal of resources to do so. But I am very willing to think through this and see how we can carry this forward with the provinces. Then the hackathon. Mr Weverling has been waiting all evening, I think! He had a great idea about the greening of the environment and how to use new initiatives. That way you can really take it one step further. We're gonna organize that hackathon. It will take place in the second quarter of 2020. I'm talking to various parties, including the municipalities, to further develop that hackathon. The municipalities obviously have a very important role to play in realising green and nature in the city. That is why I think it is important that they have been pulled over, because they are the ones who can really give the push on some points. But we're gonna keep that hackathon. Maybe that's why Mr Weverling wants to come over! I come to the next block: fishing. We have talked a lot about farmers this evening, but fishermen are also facing considerable challenges. We all look at what exactly happens to this Brexit, but I can tell you one thing: the fishermen look at what is going to happen to the Brexit like no other. For fishermen, it can potentially have a huge impact on the operation of their farms and on the possibility of fishing in British waters. In addition, we also have the large-scale roll-out of windmills. That also calls for quite some adjustment of the fishermen. The recent ban also has an impact on the way they shape their business. I have promised the Chamber that I will have the ban checked by the European judge. Yesterday, we sent a letter to the European Court to initiate proceedings to obtain a legal test of this prohibition. That application for annulment is so called that it was officially lodged with the Court of Justice yesterday. On the one hand, we have difficulties, on the other hand, we have allocated funds in the coalition agreement to promote innovation in fisheries. Among other things, Mrs Dik-Faber asked for that. That's right, we've set aside 15 million for that. I have promised to use this amount for development of ideas on the one hand and for practical testing and new ideas on the other. To put it in a very practical way, what is it doing on the ship? So it is not only academic, but also practical: what exactly does it do in practice? This year's first calls have been opened. I know that's already being used. In this way, I want to invest in the realisation of innovation that cannot be financed by the European Fund, because of course that also exists. But there are quite a few techniques and developments that are not eligible for this. In addition to the disappointment about the ban on pulses, which really, really do dominate, I also see resilience and innovative ideas in the sector, which is looking at where the future lies. The Brexit, as I said, creates uncertain times for Dutch fishing. Mr. Stoffer...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u252	It's good that the Minister says she's seeing resilience in the fisheries sector again. The government agreement states that EUR 15 million is available for innovative initiatives. That 15 million still hasn't been spent. When is the time ripe to do so?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u253	That's what it was about, about the 15 million from the coalition agreement. The first calls are written out, so that's running now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u254	It is actually courageous that the Minister should talk about fishing, that she would dare to take that word in her mouth, because the Netherlands has, of course, completely abandoned the fishermen. We've completely failed them. It is a real shame that the Netherlands did not dare to ban the pulse in Brussels. While Mr. Timmermans is now throwing money out of our wallet in Eastern Europe and we have to pay even more money, we have completely failed at this point. Mr. Veerman didn't get anything done and neither did the Minister, but we can pay the top prize to Brussels. With regard to the Brexit, I would like to know whether the Minister has already visited her colleague in England to talk about the future of fishing. If so, what has come out of it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u255	I certainly did not visit to talk about this, because the UK has one interest, and that is the countries of mainland Europe, let me put it this way, playing it apart in the fisheries policy. We can only make a fist towards the UK by ensuring that we stay together and that access to waters is linked to market access, as agreed with the European Commission. Then you can really organise a counteroffer, or rather a counteroffer, against the UK. The UK wants nothing more than to come by separately, so it can break us up and make it, say, the last laugh.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u256	The only offensive I have seen so far is Europe's offensive against our fishermen. They banned that pulse fish. That was the offensive. For the rest, the Netherlands has done nothing. I don't understand why people don't talk to the UK. The UK doesn't even have the fishing boats to catch all that fish. There are all kinds of interests; we also have an interest. I think the Minister should really stand up for the Dutch fishermen. And you can always talk. So I call on the Minister to go to the UK as soon as possible and to open the conversation with the UK about the future of our fishing fleet, what it looks like with or without Brexit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u257	The fisheries sector is sometimes opposed to each other, including within Europe. But I have never seen so much unanimity between fishermen on the mainland. Fishermen now want to fight against the UK with fishermen in other Member States on the mainland, in order to have the most chance of accessing the waters. And if I go through that alone because Mr Madlener thinks that that is a nice idea, I do not think I would be doing the sector any favours.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u258	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u259	I have had a discussion earlier on about the future of fisheries and its role in the discussions in Brussels. The only offensive I have seen and the only fist I have seen is a fist hard in the face of the Dutch fishermen through Europe. Even now, the Minister is completely abandoning the fishermen. The Minister is very supportive, and that is very handsome, but we are paying the top prize. Our fishermen can get the dot, dot, dot. I think it's a real shame.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u260	I don't think that was a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u261	I would like to continue with the matter of Dutch fishermen. I do not think that what has just been discussed has worked out enough. What the Dutch government has done is always opt for the EU. So always loyal to the EU. Always closing the lines again. Always thinking from the EU's point of view. And that's what I hear the Minister say now. She says: it is in our interest to form one block against the United Kingdom. But by "us," she means "EU." It may indeed be in the EU's interest to do so, but it is not in our interest as in 'the Netherlands', as in 'our fishermen'. I have recently spoken with all kinds of people in the UK. They say: we would love it if the Dutch minister or if the Dutch were to speak; we would very much like to make a deal with the Dutch fishermen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u262	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u263	The United Kingdom has huge fishing grounds. They don't have enough boats to fish there. That's what they called it. The question is very simple: does the Minister mean, if she is honest, by "us" not secretly "EU" instead of "the Netherlands"?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u264	The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u265	Does it not mean EU interests instead of fishing interests?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u266	I know that Mr Baudet's party and Mr Baudet's party are personally huge supporters of the Brexit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u267	That's right. And also for nexit!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u268	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u269	And what if he went to the fishermen with that and explained what that means to them? He'd be a really big man.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u270	The nice thing is that we have a lot of contacts with fishermen, which I have been to Urk recently. I have also spoken to countless fishermen in other places. We stand up for their innovative technology, the pulse fishing. We stand up for their interests, including the importance of fishing in British waters. So my question remains. The Minister says it's not in our best interest. In fairness, does she mean "our interest" as in "EU interest" - Guy Verhofstadt, Emmanuel Macron, Merkel; that kind of type of "our interest" - or does she mean the Dutch interest? Does she even know what that is, the "Dutch interest"?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u271	The referendum was won, among other things, by saying 'we will finally be boss over our own waters again and then we will not allow other fishermen'. If Mr Baudet is honest about that, then...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u272	That was never said!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u273	No, Mr. Baudet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u274	This Minister's next lie! What a madness! What a bullshit!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u275	Mr. Baudet, the Minister spoke.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u276	Mr. Chairman. I know that Mr Baudet is going to scream very loudly if he does not get his right. But the brexirefementum has been won with the statement "we will finally be boss over our own waters again."
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u277	Yes, but not with our own fishing vessels. And that's very easy to prove. Following the question why people voted for the Brexit, a lot of data, including statistical data, are available. But I note, Mr President, and I would like to return to that point, that the Minister does not answer my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u278	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u279	If there is a clash between the Dutch interest, the Netherlands, our country, and the EU interest, what does it choose? Does she choose for the Dutch interest or the EU interest?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u280	Finally, the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u281	The suggestion that there would be a difference here between the Dutch interest and the EU interest is something I would like to make.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u282	Chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u283	The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u284	Yeah, but that's not my question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u285	No, no, I know. You asked him three times and the Minister replied three times.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u286	And she hasn't answered three times, so she gets away with it! So she's gonna get away with that, is that okay?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u287	Then you will return to that in your second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u288	You bet I will.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u289	The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u290	It is not easy to tell the fishermen what a Brexit really means to them. It would be a good thing for Mr Baudet to do that for once. A further question has been asked about the vision of the cutter sector. It is being developed at the moment. Mr Weverling asked for this in a motion for a resolution. We are actually quite far away from developing the vision of the cutter sector, because we are actually going to outline the future for that. That's what we do with the sector. We're not doing that over their heads, we're really doing that with them. I hope to receive the opinion on this very soon. I will, of course, share that with this Chamber. At the same time, there is a whole process around the North Sea Agreement, in which the vision of the future of the cutter sector also has a place. Those cases run together. Mr Wassenberg asked about the protection of Natura 2000 sites in the North Sea. He asked if I am prepared to close Natura 2000 areas for fisheries. In the North Sea, areas are dependent on the Habitats Directive, the Birds Directive or the Marine Strategy Framework Directive. The designation decisions state the nature value in which quality should be protected and where to do so. Fishing measures for the protection of nature shall be adopted within the framework of the common fisheries policy. We recently registered one more site for Natura 2000, around the Dogger Bank. I do not intend to identify all kinds of other Natura 2000 sites in the North Sea. So we just did that with the Dogger Bank. Mr Wassenberg asked very specifically about fraud involving the engine power of the fishermen. There are fishermen who don't follow the rules. I rejected that, because it also penalises their colleagues who respect the rules properly. In this sense, it applies to everyone and not only to the fisheries sector. It's about other things, too. It also applies to the engine power. In 2006, the judge ruled that the State had to enforce the rules on engine power in the 12 mile zone. The control was and is carried out by the NVWA and the Inspection Leefenvironment and Transport. The infringements detected by NVWA have been followed up by fishermen. After re-checking, it was established that the rules were complied with. I therefore consider it premature to say that there is systematic fraud. That's a big statement. The NVWA carries out checks. I have also said that it is complicated for the NVWA to be at a ship every time in time to see what the engine power is at that time. So we need to go to another way of checking, to make sure we get a better view of this. This can be done by using a tachograph or a black box, or whatever name you give it. We're trying to give that hands and feet. In the recent EU report, Mr Wassenberg also mentioned the results of the study on the control and enforcement of engine power in 14 Member States. Also in the Netherlands, that's right. But then you also see that, although at least one is too much, it is a problem throughout Europe, so not so much in the Netherlands alone. If you look at it relatively, the Netherlands is not in the front line either. I do not want to trivialize it, again, but I would like to say this in order to outline the context in which this is taking place. I think we should, above all, go to a system in which we do not almost literally go after a ship every time to see if there is still a higher engine power at that time. It's pretty easy to turn that off soon. You have to go to a system where you can track what the actual speed of a ship has been. That's what we're doing right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u291	The Minister makes it a little bit of a caricature, because she says: we cannot go after every ship. But the reports on the checks carried out a little over two weeks ago show that 23 ships have been checked on a fleet of 300 ships in seven years. That is 3.15 a year, and that is 1% of the fishing fleet. This means that 99% is not checked at all. So that's a paper reality, just a check that doesn't represent much. The NOS that brought that out was talking about dozens of violations and then you really have a structural problem. I want to know from the Minister whether she is prepared to simply deprive those offenders of the fishing licence, to ensure that they no longer damage the soil and harm their competitors. Throw those rotten apples out of the basket!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u292	I said that I also think those controls could have been more and better. On the one hand, this has to do with capacity and, on the other hand, with the fact that more things are controlled than just engine power. So pretending that in all these years only 23 ships were checked and other things weren't, isn't right. That is not the case, but I still say that we are not going to solve this problem in this way. Other methods are needed for this. Other options are needed for this and we are now introducing them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u293	The Minister says it is a matter of little capacity, but that was a political choice, because for years there has been a lot of savings on, among other things, the NVWA. The Minister cannot say now: yes, boys, we have too little capacity. Her predecessors really cut back on that. That's what I wanted to say. In addition, there is a 2006 court ruling in which it was said that the Netherlands should be better enforced. The problem has therefore been known for a very long time and these controls have nevertheless only become less.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u294	I can tell you what I'm doing, and that's getting us to a system of black boxes and tachographs right now. In this way it will become easier to understand and we can also better check the actual engine power of those ships. I am politically responsible for everything that has happened in the past, but I cannot correct everything that has happened in the past. What I can do is make sure we do it better.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u295	The Minister continues her speech. Mr. Wassenberg, I see you looking at me, and since I'm so kind, I'm gonna give you one more quick shot. It's gonna be late.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u296	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. What I just want to know from the Minister is why she's acting like we're just short-term. But I said that we have known for 13 years and that we should have intervened much earlier. I ask the Minister why she is now pretending that she is only now being confronted with this by that investigation two weeks ago. Then she said in a reaction: yes, now we know. No, we've known that for 13 years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u297	More work with black boxes or tachographs is policy that has actually been deployed under my responsibility in this cabinet period. Is there any need for improvements? Yeah, that's what that's all about. We can see afterwards that a great deal should have happened. I am politically responsible for that, but I have to do what I do and make sure that we move forward. I certainly do not want to trivialize it, but I also stress that this is not an exclusive Dutch problem. It is really something to discuss with European colleagues, and that is what I am going to do. If we do it and the rest doesn't, then our fishermen say: yes, you know... They don't just go fishing in Dutch waters, because that always goes all over Europe. I therefore believe that we should also streamline enforcement in the Member States themselves, and I am committed to this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u298	The Minister continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u299	Mr President, I come to the next block, which is animal welfare. That's the last block, too. Various questions have been asked in the field of animal welfare, but before I go into that, I would like to begin with the report on guinea pigs, the cascading of guinea pigs. That is a report that I have received from Mr Graus. Thank you for that! To be honest, I'm gonna have to read it right. I have not yet taken it entirely, but Mr Graus himself gave the option of simply discussing it further in a general consultation on animal welfare.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u300	As the spiritual father of the guinea pig police, of course, I have also become some sort of ambassador to guinea pigs. There are animals, several animals, that are in trouble because of that cascade.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u301	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u302	I myself was one of the pioneers in 2006 and 2007 to make sure that antibiotics were reduced. However, it must not be the case that animals such as the guinea pig simply cannot be treated anymore. Veterinarians sit with their hands in their hair. They're afraid of the NVWA. They're afraid of high fines, and of course they can't. Those veterinarians and especially those small rodent specialists must be helped, because everything that is registered for a rabbit often does not work in a guinea pig, but this has not been taken into account. I'd like to get back to that. Thank you for having the Minister look at it. She also has expert veterinarians in the Ministry on the matter, if that's okay. I hope they will also look into it and then we will come back to the general discussion of Animal Welfare.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u303	That's right. It is about the poor availability of veterinary medicinal products, including antibiotics for guinea pigs. The problem is well known in itself. That is also what we have put our finger on in the debate on the new EU Regulation on veterinary medicinal products, which is currently under discussion, and said: something must be found for this. But I'll go into that more closely when we have an AO Animal Welfare. Then Mr Wassenberg. I have dealt with a number of animal welfare issues in writing, but I would like to speak with Mr Wassenberg on animal testing. He made a suggestion about funding animal-free research. We also discussed this at the last general consultation on animal testing last May. I promised at that time that I would find out how much public money that is actually quite a job, and I would like to say that it is precisely research with experimental animals and research on animal-free innovation, so that we can get a better understanding of it. Mr Moorlag also tabled a motion at that time. He asked if price incentives could bring about anything interesting in that respect. I estimate that in spring 2020 I will have a better view of these two motions. Mr Wassenberg has now specifically asked if I would like to talk to the departments to see if we can't take a step by transferring a small part of the budget, he mentioned 1% of the research with experimental animals into animal-free innovations, to see what that will do. In fact, I think that is a very understandable question. So I am ready to talk to the colleagues from OCW and VWS. We have, of course, all the networks for discussing this kind of thing, to see if, so to speak, we can move part of the budget of animal testing towards the animal-free innovations to see what happens then. I'm just saying honestly that I can't quite see what that means, but I'd like to make it quite clear, because if we really want to take some steps, then we have to start somewhere. I'm willing to do that. Then there are a number of very specific questions about animal abuse. I have already answered a number of questions in the written set. The point is that we are already working here in all kinds of places to prevent animal abuse and to take appropriate measures to prevent abuse. My colleague for Justice and Security is also active in this. He's in charge of the bill on the restraining order of animals or increasing the penalty for animal abuse. He'll be sending that bill to your room soon. Those are things that, like the animal police, really lie with my colleague from JenV. There's some kind of overlap in that. Mr Graus has asked very specifically for the inclusion of the fundamental rights of animals in the Constitution. He also mentioned the five freedoms contained therein. We're working on the bill on animal abuse and neglect, the bill I just mentioned. We are also in the process of evaluating the Animal Law, so there will also be a discussion in which that comes to mind. I think the real incorporation of freedoms into the Constitution is a big step, I say honestly. I understand from the interruptions that there is a bill in the pipeline. Then I really think it's up to the Chamber to see how she handles it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u304	I have an initiative law ready to include the rights of animals in the Constitution. That was a point made by Mr Wilders, still in the Wilders Group, and Mrs Halsema. All that happened on my application, as a citizen from my animal program. I left it with Mrs Halsema at the time. So it's originally from me. But what matters is that GroenLinks is blocking it now. I think that is a serious matter. Mr Grashoff would hand that over. I would do that together with the Animal Party, with Femke Merel, Mrs Van Kooten-Arissen, I must say who was still with the Animal Party at the time. We just run into it being blocked by GroenLinks at Bureau of Legislation. It's crazy. Soon I'll be out of the Chamber and I haven't been able to file it because GroenLinks is blocking it. So you can call something here and submit something, a little concept, and then no one else can do it anymore. I don't think that should be possible. We should think about that as a chamber too. I think that's a bad thing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u305	That's not really a question to the Minister. I see that Mrs Bromet would like to respond briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u306	Yes, because the criticism is addressed to GroenLinks and to me. I would like Mr Graus to take it up with me. It is about an initiative by my predecessors that I am responsible for, but it is useful to say that directly to me rather than via the Minister. I heard you do it yesterday, and I'm really sorry about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u307	I suggest you do this outside the meeting. We are now working on the Minister's term and this is a discussion among MPs. They are very valuable, but we are not going to do that in plenary. I'm asking the Minister...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u308	Mr. Chairman. I'd still like to, because something was said about it. I really went to GroenLinks ten times to talk about this, so I'm not going 11 times. It is a lucky number in Limburg, but I do not go to GroenLinks 11 times. I'm sorry. I'm not begging.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u309	I think I have actually heard an offer from Mrs Bromet to just look at it together, so perhaps the profit of this debate is that something can actually happen now. As far as I'm concerned, but now I'm going to play the big mediator. If you want to file a law and do a little bit different than a bill that's there, that's just filed on that ground. Maybe that's a road that can be walked. I think it would be a good idea to discuss this law with the Member of the Court of Justice and Security, because it deals with judicial matters. This also applies to the last point, a question from Mr Graus. He talked about what he calls the overseas municipalities, Bonaire, Sint-Eustatius and Saba, about animal welfare on those islands. I have just checked, but they themselves have the power to regulate and enforce animal welfare. Animal abuse has been punishable in the Code of Criminal Law BES. This is equivalent to the Code of Criminal Law applicable in the European Netherlands, so I am aware that it is legally sufficient to ensure that animal cruelty can be avoided on the islands.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u310	I've been looking all night like a bumper car, but now I just got my points, so you'll see me a little more often. They're not doing anything about it. This minister is not only Minister of Animal Welfare, the shepherd of our sheep, but she is also Deputy Prime Minister. I do think that the Minister can at least make a minimal effort to take care of it, even if she is there. She has recently visited there that something is happening, that she says: boys, do something about it. 'Cause they're Gaul villages. The animals are in terrible conditions there. A good friend of mine is committed to that. It's terrible when you see images. It's like Romania or Bulgaria there. It just can't be. They are just special Dutch municipalities and our laws apply there. I think the animal police and the LID should all go there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u311	Yes, I have been there recently. For example, I was talking about the donkey shelter at Bonaire. I have also spoken to the lady who is talking about this. She's doing a great job. I see that there are many initiatives to put animal welfare and the fight against animal cruelty on the map. We have created the legal framework for this. Enforcement is really something that is being shaped there. That also applies to local business. Then municipalities will also have to do their own thing. I would therefore like to leave that competence where it lies, namely with the islands themselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u312	Mr President, I would also like to ask a question, but I should also like to ask the Minister to finish her job first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u313	Yes, but I have done that now, because I have now had a few interruptions in which I have also dealt with a number of cases. I thought I also replied in writing to the other points.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u314	First of all, I would like to thank the Minister for the effort she says she is going to make to examine whether money can be transferred, in very small steps, from research to research without experimental animals. That's what I'm saying first and I appreciate it. I had a motion on that in preparation. I'm gonna go see if I'm gonna file it, but I appreciate this; let me have said that. I would like to ask two more questions on the written answer. I asked a question about a life-long restraining order. Why is such a restraining order not being considered? I have not yet received a written reply to that. In addition, the Minister writes that the bill will come to the Chamber in spring 2020, but on 19 June she wrote that the bill will come to the Chamber after the summer. Now it doesn't come after the summer, even after the winter and also after spring. So there are two more seasons. What's with the six-month delay? That's my first question. My second question is indeed whether the Minister can explain why a life-long restraining ban is not possible. I also had a question about the fight against musk rats. The Minister also replied in writing. She writes: "Waterships are responsible for the management of water circuits under the Water Act..." Agreed. She also writes: "... including the fight against the muskrat." The latter is not true, because the waterboards are responsible for the more musk rats. Management is not necessarily control. I'd like an answer to that. Further...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u315	Now you're gonna ask questions for a long time, Mr. Wassenberg. I don't think that's a good idea. I'll give the Minister a chance to answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u316	Mr. Wassenberg is asking a question about the bill. That's a bill from my colleague from JenV. So I feel a little hesitant to say very big words about that. It is true that our earlier information was that that bill would just come around this time and that I have now learned that it will be a bit later. I say honestly: I do not know the exact reason for that. Maybe it's a good idea to ask JenV's colleague as well. Why was the ten-year term chosen instead of a life-long restraining ban? I understand that this is also due to a balance of proportionality that is being made. I'm not a lawyer, so I don't know how all that gets established. So I find it rather difficult to interpret that correctly, but it has to do with the nature of the offence versus the sanction you put on the other side. A weighting shall be carried out. I don't know exactly what that weighting is based on. Perhaps by then, if the bill is before us, it would be a good idea to include this in the process. That is, of course, the moment when that can also be considered. Can I take the issue of combat versus management of the muskrat with me in the second term? This also lies with the colleague of IenW and is also about the water boards. We had a little coordination yesterday to look at how we are doing this response. So I really need to check that out, and I don't know if that's out of my head.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u317	Finally, Mr. Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u318	Thanks for the answer. Mr Graus is not in the Chamber now, but he has just mentioned what people do to animals. Animals are completely lost weight, have had barely any food for months, are in their own shit. We're talking proportionality. When that happens, I don't think you should let people like that keep animals again. Anyway, I'll talk about that with my colleague from the Justice Department later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u319	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u320	The Minister began her speech with warm words to the farmer. You're right. She also said those words on the Malieveld. But this is also the Minister of Nature and for nature. The flowers and bees do not go to the Malieveld to demonstrate, they do not flatten the Netherlands, but die in silence. I would have liked to have heard the warm words about nature from this Minister of Nature. I missed that one. I had also made a suggestion yesterday, namely that you say, as you also said on the Malieveld: as long as I am Minister of Nature, nature in the Netherlands will not deteriorate further. I would like to hear these words from the Minister, because you have a broad portfolio and this one is one of them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u321	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. I think I've shown you in the block of nature what steps we're all taking. Also in the block about nitrogen, where nature restoration is a very clear part of it. The cabinet will also make additional efforts to this end. Everything is aimed at keeping or raising the conservation status at least as much as possible. That's what we're doing. That's why we're taking all the measures. That's why we're working on things like the tree and forest plan. The climate agreement is all about that. Of course I'm hard at work for that, too. You can always ask me about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u322	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u323	This minister is a very competent minister. I've also seen a warm minister with a warm heart. This still sounds very technical. It's also about: where's the heart? Does the heart really belong to nature? I believe that this minister is working hard for it and doing the good, but I would also like to hear it in one breath with the love of the farmer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u324	In my introduction I started with the love of the farmer on the one hand. The second part was about nature. I mentioned them both. Perhaps Mr De Groot heard it a little less well, but I actually said it. That love is not small. We all enjoy nature. It is the basis of our lives and our environment. Everyone enjoys that every day. I am committed to doing so with all my heart to ensure that we can continue to do so, including for future generations.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u325	I have another question on a written answer. It's about CRISPR-Cas9, a processing technique. We do a lot of that in Europe and therefore in the Netherlands. 40% of vegetable seeds worldwide are consumed in the Netherlands. You say that this CRISPR-Cas9 technique is now banned within Europe by the European Court. You're doing your best to get out of this impasse. I think that is well described in the written reply. But you also say that enforcement is virtually impossible, difficult and complicated for cases entering the EU market from outside the EU. A cucumber made outside the EU does not show whether it is made with CRISPR-Cas9 breeding technique and is therefore more resilient for all kinds of things. Of course, that's something. I understand you can't see it, because you can't see it and you can't taste it. That is why it is so strange that we do not allow this CRISPR-Cas9 technique in the EU. At the same time, it cannot be maintained. Thus, the playing field is simply unfair, not equal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u326	And your question?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u327	So the question to the Minister is: do you want to reflect on that? 'Cause that's crazy. We're putting ourselves at a disadvantage.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u328	Mr Weverling does not have to convince me of that. I have, of course, already said that we are committed to this, because we also see that CRISPR-Cas9 is important within the species, and I continue to emphasise that. Wearable plant species are incredibly important in view of climate change, and all these aspects. As far as I am concerned, therefore, this should not have been prohibited by the Court in this way. That's exactly what we're doing in Europe, but you're starting to catch up when you get back to work. But this is also my argument. If something comes from outside the EU and is said "this is not with CRISPR-Castechniek," we cannot fully verify it. So you cannot rule it out 100% and within Europe we ban it. That seems to me to be an argument more to ensure that we get good regulation on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u329	I am pleased that we find each other in the fight to break that deadlock and to make CRISPR-Cas possible in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u330	The Minister's written answer to my question on Mercosur raises new questions. One is: will the minister or will the cabinet make an impact assessment of the impact of this treaty on Dutch agriculture and horticulture?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u331	I believe that a motion by Mr Voordewind has been adopted on this matter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u332	And there's exactly the confusion. Minister Kaag has answered our parliamentary questions. Looks like we're back to square one. She says, and that is what Minister Schouten said earlier: no, a sustainability impact assessment is being carried out at European level, and that is what we are relying on. So I'm confused about what the cabinet is going to do next.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u333	That's not mutually exclusive, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u334	Okay. If this minister promises that this impact assessment for Dutch agriculture and horticulture will still take place, we have a new commitment. But I have to say, the cabinet communicates rather confusingly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u335	There's gonna be an impact assessment. That is coordinated by Minister Kaag. Then I hear Mrs Ouwehand say: I just want a Dutch impact assessment. I think there is already a European impact assessment and the Netherlands is still part of the EU.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u336	Finalizing, Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u337	And here's the confusion. Previously, the cabinet was on the line: we are doing it through the European impact assessment. Then Minister Schouten said: I see no added value for a separate impact assessment for Dutch agriculture and horticulture. Then came the Voordewind motion. It has been adopted and requires an impact assessment for the Dutch situation. Then you can expect that motion to be carried out. Now Minister Kaag refers again to the European part. It's not clear what the cabinet is going to do here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u338	That motion was submitted to Mr Kaag. The parliamentary questions are for Mr Kaag, and then I think it is perfectly logical that this question should be put to Mr Kaag and not to me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u339	Fine. Finally, Mrs Bromet, because I would very much like to go to the second term of office.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u340	I understand that, Mr. Chairman. I asked one more question that has not been answered, namely the one on my own initiative paper on peat meadows and the motion for a resolution on a national plan for peat meadows adopted before the summer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u341	Hasn't it been answered in the written set? I thought it was in there.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u342	Then I missed him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u343	I am aware of that. We are now working in those areas to agree on that process, on how we are going to make these agreements. We had the motion, but we also had the climate agreement. The cabinet has also earmarked specific funds for the peat meadow area, also in relation to agriculture and all that comes with it. So there's money. The way in which we are going to use this is now being agreed. We're working on that right now. That's quite a job, so that's why it's not quite finished yet, but it's being worked on very hard. Mr. Chairman. I think I answered all the questions. I would like to make one more point before we move on to the second term. Next Thursday, in America, the World Food Prize will be handed over to Mr Simon Groot for all the work he has done in the field of processing. The World Food Prize is a kind of Nobel Prize for Agriculture. Mr Simon Groot has ensured that good seeds have been produced, with which, in particular, greater yields have been achieved in Southeast Asia. In doing so, he has made a direct contribution to preventing and combating hunger. I think that's very big. I think that's the kind of guy who deserves a prize. I would like to congratulate him on this prize. I think I can do the same on behalf of this Chamber. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u344	Thank you, Minister. This brings us to the end of the first term of office. I suggest we proceed with the second term. First of all, Mr Madlener has the floor on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u345	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It was a bit strange budget handling this year, because it was not so much about the budget, but about everything else that goes down on the agricultural sector. We have seen the farmers' greatest demonstration in a very long time. Since time immemorial, I'd almost like to say. Tonight it has become clear that this will not have been the last demonstration. The Minister has made it clear that the cabinet will continue on the current road, the route of the Commission which will, after all, bring about a reform of agriculture in the Netherlands. As a result, a lot of farmers are uncertain about their future, the Netherlands is economically put behind schedule, the agricultural sector is partly driven abroad and a further increase in scale is ensured. In other words, if I look not at the fine words but at the actions of this cabinet, then I am very disappointed. Then I see the same future for the farmers as for the fishermen, on behalf of one of the languishing ones, one where Europe is the boss and where we have completely thrown our own interests overboard. To be honest, that makes me very sad. That happens under the guise of nature, but of course that's a bullshit story. Nature in the Netherlands is not so bad at all. What has led to change is the ruling on the PAS, because I have not heard anyone say these words about nature and the need for the reform of farmers. There just wasn't. It is purely the stick that the left-wing parties have found to beat the peasants with. Because this cabinet has committed itself to the left, it is going to implement this policy. That is a betrayal of the farming sector. Mr. Chairman. As far as PVV is concerned, there is only one good way to restore this, and that is simply an extension of the environmental rules, so that we do not have to implement all these bullying measures, so that we do not have to destroy our economy and so that there is a future for Dutch farmers, and preferably for small and medium-sized family businesses. We want to keep these companies. In the Netherlands we traditionally have a sector with many small farmers. We have to be careful about that. I can tell you that this is also a very good way to implement environmental policy. So I have prepared a motion, which reads as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[whereas nitrogen emissions in the Netherlands have fallen significantly over the last few decades (more than halved);]] [[whereas farmers have made a major contribution to reducing nitrogen emissions, and farmers deserve to be congratulated on this;]] [[Whereas farmers should not be the victims of the Dutch blunder with the so-called PAS legislation;]] [[calls on the government to substantially relax the currently overly stringent environmental rules on nitrogen emissions,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Madlener. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIV-11]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u346	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u347	Thank you, Mr. Madlener. Mr Graus has the floor, also on behalf of the PVV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u348	I'll start by reading the motions, Mr. Chairman. Then I can see how much time I have left. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government, in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice and Security, to impose a life-long ban on the keeping of animals after conviction, including as an independent sentence,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to impose a professional ban if there is "work-related" contact with a convicted animal abuser,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to consider how the Veterinary Forensic Team can be involved in the Animal Abuse National Expertise Centre on "suspected" dead animals,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIV-12]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIV-13]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIV-14]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u349	The Veterinary Forensic Team gave a presentation here last week in the person of Dr. Frank van de Goot. Many MPs were present. So I don't think it's gonna work if this motion doesn't make it. If he's not gonna make it, I'm really gonna go into the monastery with Mamelis' little fathers, because then I don't remember either. Would you like to come with me, Mr. Futselaar?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u350	You mustn't challenge us.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u351	No, I won't. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to allow compulsory labelling of products of ritual and/or religiously slaughtered animals (to be prohibited),]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to provide our national symbol, the lion, with better protection against trophyhunt by calling within CITES for the transfer of list 2 to list 1 for the highest protection against trophyhunt as well as for dealing with mass trade in cheetahs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to provide green boas with weapons against heavily armed poaching gangs,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the Government to examine the possibilities of bringing the Animal Welfare Team of the NVWA, the Member and Green Boas to the Ministry of Justice and Security,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIV-15]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIV-16]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIV-17]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIV-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u352	It doesn't matter where the public money goes, to Justice or Security or to LNV, but with that motion we're off a lot of bullshit, because then it's end of practice. Then it is also end practice with all those intimidations within the NVWA, also from the leadership to people on the workplace. 'Cause believe me, it's happening, and that's outrageous. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government, in cooperation with the KAD, to set up a Dutch knowledge centre for rodent management (Rodentorium) to prevent gnawing,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Graus. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIV-19]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u353	It's a nice name, isn't it, Rodentorium? It was conceived by Dr. Weijman of the KAD and not by myself, but it doesn't matter. Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the commitments. Mr. Geurts and I are going to go tomorrow with the Minister Mr. Madlener has to wait another year... plant a tree in Limburg. That was promised last year. So that's what we're gonna do. Thank you for all the other commitments made by the Minister. Thanks also to the fact that she wants to examine the cascade, that is to say there will be enough medication available for small boys, because these animals also count. For the PVV all animals count, even a guinea pig. We've set up police for it; the guinea pig police, you need to check. A few more petitions are offered by Mrs Gerda van de Wijngaard and Michiel Mulder, with tens of thousands of signatures. That's what I'm gonna do at the AO Animal Welfare. If animals are abused, perpetrators will receive community service, and that is simply shameful. Here in Rijswijk someone binds a dog, in the full heat of summer, and then he lets that animal starve to death and drowns and then he gets community service of several tens of hours. I really need to be careful what I'm about to say. I'll leave that out, otherwise I'll be back in the Telegraph tomorrow with something. Mrs. Ouwehand, tell me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u354	Mrs. Ouwehand, go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u355	All the animals count for the PVV, and I like that very much. I am so curious when the PVV will honestly tell its own supporters, because I know that Mr Graus himself is a vegetarian, that we need to use a little less animals, kill and eat them and so on, because that is what is best for the animals.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u356	Mrs. Ouwehand, I have become a vegetarian myself. At the time of the swine fever, I immediately stopped, because I saw too much misery. I've also seen too many transports: fractures during loading and unloading and transport. It made me really sick, I'm telling you honestly. That's why I quit. I liked meat. I'm telling you the truth. I really like to eat fricandells and other snacks. Typically something for Limburg: a fry on every hundred inhabitants. I must honestly say that I stopped because I didn't want to be part of it because of the animals, but I am part of a group and my group has the view that every individual consumer is about it. That's just the truth. In my neighborhood, everywhere I go, I encourage you to stop eating meat, because it also makes you smell better. Well, let's face it, it just smelled like hell in here. When we came in here, it smelled very ferocious; so did the Chamberlains. That's all coming from behind those grids. That's all dirty meat you smell. I like vegetarians better, too. Yes, Mr. Baudet, I've had more success with the women than you have, I can assure you. That's true. It all comes out of what you eat, through your pores and everything. You're gonna smell that, really. Just look at animals that are vegetarian themselves, for example a cow. For example, cow manure or horse manure do not stink. But the dung of all-eaters, such as pigs or chickens, is often unhardenable. That's where you see the difference. I personally share that with you, and if I ever leave this cheese clover in The Hague, I am going to work for animals worldwide and argue for this kind of thing too, but I cannot do that on behalf of my group. Maybe I'm one of the few. I know Martin Bosma is also a vegetarian, but I have to stick to group discipline, as you know.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u357	Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u358	I could get kicked out or something, but I wouldn't want that. I wouldn't take my seat either. You know there's no point in that. Thanks to the PVV and thanks to Mr. Wilders, the animal police arrived, with 144. My motions on imprisonment for animal executioners and on the phasing out of animal testing have been adopted, and you name it. I am grateful that I was allowed to be a member of Mr Wilders' group, so that is what I am doing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u359	Mrs. Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u360	Mr President, it is clear that it is not up to Mr Graus. We are looking with a plea at Mr Madlener, who must help Mr Graus a little to get the group to turn, so that the fair story is also told. If you're really in favour of animal welfare, it's better not to have them killed and eaten. Good luck!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u361	I'd like to respond to that. If I ever ride on the highway along such a cattle transport, where all those animals are stuffed up, with the heads and the butts out, you can always see people looking away, even in my car: oh, oh. But then I think: yes, but you eat meat, so you have no right to speak. That's my personal opinion. I quit, not because I thought it was dirty, but because of the animals. Anyone who spends a day with the animal police or the NVWA becomes an acute vegetarian, believe me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u362	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u363	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. There are still petitions offered by Mrs Gerda van den Wijngaert and Michiel Mulder to raise that sentence. That's gonna be tens of thousands of signatures. So wet your chest. That's all gonna happen. Then the tree-planting day at farmers. I find it interesting to come back to that again with Mrs Bromet. I am going to sit with Mrs Bromet and, if I may, with Mr Wassenberg, my friend from Limburg and colleague from the Animal Party, possibly together for the initiative law on animal rights in the Constitution. I'd like that. Thank you, Mrs Bromet, for reaching out to me. I very much appreciate that you put animal welfare above party politics, because it is a matter of defenceless animals. I have one last question, because with the rest the Minister has been good for us as always. And I also trust it to happen. I've been talking about Wings for Animals. Among other things on the board is even a pilot, a female commander of KLM. You will be pleased to hear that, Mr. Chairman.... but also a lot of stewardesses participate. Everywhere they land, they're going to help animals in need. They often have to stay a few nights. That help ranges from walking with asylum animals to collecting funds for poor asylums. They also want to help the little tiger Colon, who sits in Buenos Aires in a horrible, closed zoo. That little animal needs to be taken out of there. The State is a shareholder of KLM. I'm even a spokesperson for KLM. I believe that the Minister as a shareholder should help me, including within the Council of Ministers. That would also be nice at 100 years of KLM. Colon has to go from Buenos Aires to Amsterdam and from Amsterdam to Johannesburg. That's where he ends up on a nice reservation. I am willing to help those stewardesses and those pilots, but we also need support from the government, because KLM does not care at home - it is animals. I think it's okay for the government to say "boys, let's make a nice gesture and let's get Colon out of that horrible, closed zoo" because that animal is getting rid of it. I hope that the Minister will continue to work for this and for more recognition within KLM of those Wings for Animals ladies. Maybe there's a gentleman in there, too. Yes, Piet Hellemans, a very well-known vet. I think Mrs. Ouwehand knows him too. He's familiar with television. He's still in there. That's what I liked. This is also what I asked for in the first term. I wish you, Mr. Chairman, a very blessed evening.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u364	Thank you, thank you. Also for your input. Mrs Lodders has the floor on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u365	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for answering the questions. Our Dutch farmers and growers produce good quality food at an affordable price. Rightful appreciation. The Dutch agricultural sector produces in a sustainable way compared to other countries. Mr. Chairman. The debate on nitrogen will take place next Thursday. In advance of that, I asked for clarification on a number of important points during this debate. There is a great deal of concern among farmers about the letter and its interpretation. My group would like to stress that solutions must be taken together with farmers on a voluntary basis. My group appreciates the fact that the Minister has made it very clear today that there is a light between the Minister's agreements and the elaboration of the policy rules. This is about the external netting. But I have also heard the Minister say clearly that the policy rule is not opened until this ambiguity is removed. So the rule doesn't apply as long as that difference is on the table. I wanted to confirm that one more time, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. I have a motion and I will read it out right away, because then I think it is immediately clear what I mean by that. It's the motion extension grid. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the method used in the Netherlands to determine nitrogen deposition is based on the measurement of nitrogen air concentrations converted to nitrogen deposition on the basis of models;]] [[noting that this model has been adapted in recent years but according to RIVM there is still a large margin of uncertainty from 30% to 70%;]] [[Whereas improved measurements are necessary in order to be able to take targeted measures which can also be supported;]] [[noting that different validated methods are available outside the Netherlands, such as, for example, the Danish method;]] [[calls on the Government to make it clear how these methods work and to examine whether and how these methods are useful for the Dutch situation;]] [[calls on the Government to extend the measurement network to include actual deposition measurements on the ground,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Lodders and Mr Geurts. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIV-20]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u366	In my view, the two things that this motion is asking for have already been agreed by the Minister, so I wonder what this motion adds.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u367	I've heard the Minister's answers. In this motion we have set out exactly what we mean. This is about the deposition measurement on the ground. That is a different measurement from the one that is currently taking place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u368	I think the motion calls for more measuring points. The Minister has agreed to do so. I'm not talking about the Minister's response. I would just point out to the Chamber and to the Minister that we have an agreement: motions which deal with commitments already made are given the opinion 'unneeded'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u369	We'll see. I await the Minister's response and judgment. Mr President, concluding. My colleague Geurts will table another motion to deal with the uncertainties. I am looking in the direction of Mr Geurts, but he is a little further up the hall. He'll make that motion on my behalf. All the way to the end, Mr. Chairman. Saturday is Thank a Farmer Day. When I go shopping on Saturday, I will pay extra attention to the appreciation for our farmers and gardeners, who every day, seven days a week, provide that quality good food at an affordable price. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u370	Thank you. Mr Weverling has the floor on behalf of the VVD, and he continues to do so! Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u371	Mr. Chairman. It is very nice that the Minister concluded with the congratulations to Mr Simon Groot, the top breeder from North Holland who wins the prestigious World Food Prize. He's going to be awarded that next week. Those congratulations were certainly also on behalf of the VVD. Thank you for that. As a follow-up, it is good that the Minister is committed to a breakthrough in the processing technique CRISPR-Cas in Europe, including by getting the review of GMO technology into the work programme of the new European Commission. That is very important. We hope, of course, that all will succeed. Then I would like to thank the Minister for the commitments regarding the hackathon with young professionals in the second quarter of 2020 for more urban greenery. Indeed, I would like to be present. Also nice that we go to the Floriade together, the world garden exhibition. I'll bring my boots. I'll see if I can find your buddy somewhere. It is also nice that, on the occasion of our motion, the viscotter vision is almost ready, and the sector has a vision of the future. That's very important. It is also good that the Minister talks with the Federation Private Land Property to identify how many hectares they have available for additional tree planting. It is also good to report on the progress of the plan of action to improve enforcement in the outlying areas at the beginning of 2020. The green boas deserve our support, so thank you for that commitment. We are, of course, looking forward to the letter that will shortly come, as was stated in the written reply, on Mr Jan Huitema's resolution in the European Parliament on the establishment of patents on the natural properties of plants. That is no longer possible, because it is about natural properties. There are no patents. So a lot of great promises. So no motions from my hand. It was a nice, effective budget handling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u372	Thank you. Mrs Bromet has the floor on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u373	Mr. Chairman. We are having the debate here because we have all been elected, with different backgrounds and different ideas. We are holding the debate on the basis of arguments. It surprised me yesterday. I have been looking at some of my colleagues and I have thought: how should I react to this? That concerned the doubt that was sown about scientific data. I thought: yes, if you have such a different starting point, when you talk about different realities, then you really can't have a debate with arguments at all. I am very pleased that the Minister has said today that the RIVM measurement data and the principles of nitrogen policy are undisputed for her. That also gives me hope for a good solution to the whole problem of nitrogen, without saying that it will be easy. Next week we will continue the debate on this issue, so I now have a motion on another subject: food waste and the food banks in the Netherlands. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that an estimated 400,000 people in the Netherlands need food aid and that 140,000 of these are now being helped by the food banks;]] [[Considering that the cabinet aims to halve the food waste by 2030 and that food banks can make an important contribution to this;]] [[Whereas the food banks with only volunteers carry out a massive logistics operation every week;]] [[Whereas funds have been earmarked in the budget to combat food waste and some of them do not yet have a specific purpose;]] [[calls on the government to discuss with Food Banks Netherlands how the government can provide support to ensure that food waste is dealt with and that the necessary food aid is provided,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bromet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIV-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u374	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u375	Thank you, Mrs Bromet. Mr Geurts has the floor on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u376	Mr. Chairman. First, a motion. I've got one. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are uncertainties in underpinning the policy towards nitrogen-sensitive nature;]] [[invites the government, together with Wageningen University, the University of Amsterdam, other knowledge institutes in our neighboring countries and Stichting Mesdagfonds, to review this year how to improve the measurement and monitoring of nitrogen depositions in the short term;]] [[calls on the Government to re-validate the model used for the emissions and deposition of nitrogen, validated in the base, and to re-validate the calibration of the model in order to achieve greater certainty for longer-term policies and to remove unrest;]] [[In addition, for the purposes of a threshold, by analogy with Flanders and Germany, the Government invites the aforementioned research institutions to provide, in the shortest possible time, a justification, based on available knowledge, of the extent to which nitrogen emissions at a certain distance have a significant effect on nitrogen-sensitive habitats in the Netherlands,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Geurts and Mr Lodders. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIV-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u377	Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister and her support for the answers we have received, both in writing and orally. I saw a message tonight that farmers in the Netherlands, such as POV, have suspended consultations with the Minister. I heard from other stakeholders "that there is a great deal of uncertainty about what proposed measures are going to mean for farmers and gardeners." It's about nitrogen. I would ask the Minister, from the bottom of my heart, to speak very quickly with the agricultural organizations in order to remove the uncertainties and uncertainties that exist. Mr. Chairman. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank our policy officer, Mr Barend, who is not going to mention his last name, for his unbridled commitment to the CDA Group, because he is about to strengthen another organisation with a healthy sense of farming.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u378	The Minister is telling us where he's going. She knows that. But I won't repeat that aloud.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u379	I have also taken note of the views of the interest groups. A press release from the LTO has also been published. Mr Geurts says: I am underlining a number of things that are being presented. But that press release says that the acceptance of working together on nitrogen reduction and sustainability decreases due to the stubborn and uncooperative attitude of the Ministry. To what extent does Mr Geurts share that view?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u380	Those organizations are about their own words. I'm talking about my own words, too. I just heard Mr Moorlag say that I would support something from those organizations. No, I have just said that there is a great deal of uncertainty as to what the proposed measures will mean for farmers and growers. End quote. That is not my opinion; they have written it down. But if you ask me the direct question of whether there is uncertainty, then I say: yes, I have been saying this here for a few days, here in the room and beyond, in the various places. I really think that if we want to go on with each other in this country, we simply need to communicate well. And if you have been paying attention during this debate, you have heard that I have been trying to clarify some of the issues raised by question marks on the left and right. I sincerely believe that the Minister can do a bit more, and I have just asked her to do so.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u381	I share Mr Geurts' view that there is uncertainty. I have also expressed in the first term that I consider the demands of the farmers legitimate. But there are several parties in this. That is why I asked Mr Geurts that question. I would like to know to what extent Mr Geurts shares the views of the representative organizations if there is a view in the business community that the Ministry would be obstinate and uncooperative.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u382	I can never answer this question at all, because I am not in the discussions between these organizations and the Minister. This is an opinion of those organisations. Don't try to frame it on me, either. But we both conclude there's uncertainty. I've been receiving a lot of mail since that letter went out. If you look in my mailbox, you will see how much pain farmers, gardeners and other entrepreneurs are suffering. They just have sleepless nights. There are banks that just don't want to finance companies anymore. I do not think we can accept that here. That is why I ask the Minister to provide certainty and clarity on nitrogen policy as soon as possible. And don't try to frame me like I'm proposing something else, I'll tell Mr Moorlag of the PvdA Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u383	Then I wonder what responsibility the CDA itself will take for that. We can see, however, that the conflict within the coalition has led to not too sharp choices being made in that letter and therefore does not contribute to clarity and certainty. And that is the least you could offer the farmers in these difficult times.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u384	Yeah, this one's nice, too. But Mrs Ouwehand knows better than anyone that the cabinet is about his cabinet letter and that the cabinet has to explain that letter. I'll give you a tip of the veil. When I saw that letter, I didn't do that on Saturday afternoon. I sent a three-way memo to the minister, with questions and cases, with the question: what does this letter mean in practice? And, of course, there is talk of majorities in a coalition. But not about details, I say to Mrs Ouwehand. But I understand that Mrs Ouwehand never wants to take cabinet responsibility, so she will not experience how that works.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u385	That's the eternal you-bake. I remember that around the phosphate drama the CDA here also blamed the coalition quite a bit. Everyone in the sector knew that it was mainly Mrs Lodder who stopped measures. And then it has to be done, then it has to be done quickly and then it's vague. And then you don't want to communicate the clear choices that need to be made. I think the CDA is doing exactly the same thing here and then getting the Minister to blame. I just don't think that's entirely fair.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u386	You can give a lot of answers to that, but I think the best answer is this. You can take three years or you can try to do it much faster, but then the minister and the cabinet will still be responsible for the cabinet letter and its explanation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u387	The CDA blames the Minister more or less unclearly. Apparently, there's not enough clarity. At least the CDA calls for clarity. But that's as far as the CDA comes with nothing. You stand here empty-handed while you call yourself a peasant party. You're asking for clarity. There may not be that clarity, but it is a negative story for farmers. What good is it for farmers to be clear about such negative measures for the whole sector? And what else does the CDA have to offer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u388	Mr President, over your head I say to Mr Graus: shall we take this colleague to Limburg to plant a tree? 'Cause he's getting really annoying right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u389	That was a little entrapment, Mr. Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u390	It depends on how he will immediately support me in the group in relation to the voting opinions, so I will wait for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u391	At least the CDA Group has just tabled a motion along with the VVD Group. I think that once again provides a basis for reaching a certain threshold. At least that's what I'm trying to do. I don't know if it's gonna work. But it is our commitment and I hope that the PVV Group will support us in this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u392	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u393	I have already tabled a motion to relax the rules on nitrogen emissions. A threshold is a relaxation, at least that is what we are assuming. If that threshold is high enough, it's a relief. That is, of course, what we are calling for, so I hope you will support our motion. But I think it's a very thin story from the CDA: maybe this, maybe that. It is, of course, the CDA that is responsible for this policy, including in Brussels, with all the treaties that harm our farmers. I have already mentioned the VAT increase. In that case, I find it very lean that Mr Geurts is actually coming here empty-handed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u394	I think that in everything I would have said this would have been the last sentence of the PVV Group. It was rehearsed, so it doesn't matter if I had talked about animal welfare or anything else: this would have been the last sentence. I think that the PVV Group should take a closer look at our motion and I hope that they will simply support it. By the way, in the motion that you have just tabled and which you referred to, there are a number of phrases which I do not think will pass through the Christian Democratic dictionary in my group, but perhaps we can talk about after the sitting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u395	Thank you, too. Mr von Martels has the floor, also on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u396	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The temptation is great for me to reflect on the nitrogen dossier as well, but let me concentrate on the issues for which I am responsible as a spokesman. This concerns, in particular, nature, fisheries and animal welfare. Nature will be fully covered in the coming weeks and months. We're gonna have a tree vision and a forest vision. As far as fisheries are concerned, we still have a cutter vision and a North Sea vision. So the last word has not yet been spoken on these issues. As far as animal welfare is concerned, I am pleased that Mr Graus made a very strong plea about guinea pigs, even though hamster weeks have begun. Besides, I'd like to stand up for the greenhouse horticulture. How can we make this sector climate neutral as soon as possible? For that, I have the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the capture of CO in industry and its use in horticulture is necessary to make greenhouse horticulture climate neutral;]] [[Whereas Carbon Capture and Utilisation (CCU), such as greenhouse horticulture, is still facing European and national barriers to recognise and reward the CO reduction for all parties concerned;]] [[calls on the Government to take action and inform the Court before the end of the year so that CCU and the associated transport of CO will be eligible for the extended SDE+ as soon as possible;]] [[calls on the Government to identify and remove national barriers with all parties so that the CO reduction is recognised and the greenhouse horticulture-related projects can be a precursor,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr von Martels, Mr Dik-Faber, Mr Weverling and Mr De Groot. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIV-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u397	I would also like to thank the Minister very much for the clear response to the various dossiers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u398	Thank you. Mr Futselaar has the floor on behalf of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u399	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A couple of motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas several political parties and interest groups have expressed doubts as to the accuracy of the calculation methods used by RIVM with regard to nitrogen deposition;]] [[noting that the research results of the RIVM are an important pillar of the advisory report Not everything can be done by the Remkes Committee and the ensuing measures of the Cabinet to reduce nitrogen emissions;]] [[calls on the directors responsible for this dossier of the Ministries of LNV, OCW and VWS to give their opinion on the scientific correctness of RIVM's calculation methods in this regard in the short term,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Dutch Food and Veterinary Authority has an important social role in the field of food safety and animal welfare and is responsible for a very broad and intensive set of tasks;]] [[noting that, despite intensified efforts, NVWA has repeatedly failed in several food safety crises animal welfare and enforcement of environmental legislation;]] [[calls on the Minister to appoint an external independent party to examine the actions or financial resources needed to equip the NVWA sufficiently for its tasks,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIV-24]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Futselaar. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIV-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u400	Mr. Chairman. The letter from the Cabinet and the Minister on nitrogen seems to me to be paying particular attention to this dossier. I understand that, but there is also a huge rush to this dossier, given all the projects that are waiting. That is why my group has tabled an amendment to reserve natural money now, so that we can at least start restoring nature and take a first step in resolving this crisis. I, too, have taken note of the series of press releases reached us during this debate. First there was the POV who said: we're not going to talk to the minister at all. Then the LTO said: we are putting an ultimatum in place and if what we want does not happen, we are not going to talk to the Minister. I would like to give the following advice: if you are in a hurry, it can sometimes also be a blessing for some organisations to put themselves out of a discussion. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u401	Thank you. Mr De Groot has the floor on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u402	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you to the Minister and her team for answering the questions. The Minister's replies on circular agriculture are very procedural. That is partly good, because much, also a lot, has to be done with others. But again from D66 the call to the Minister to set goals and to provide clarity, especially about what it means for primary companies and what they can expect in what period. There has been a discussion about the measurement of nitrogen. I would like to suggest to the Minister that we also look at the possibilities of measuring ammonia and other forms of nitrogen from space. I'd like a response from the Minister to that. Does it see any possibility of doing so? Next year is the year of biodiversity. In the Jetten/De Groot motion, the minister and the cabinet were called upon to make this a real success and to make it a kind of Paris for nature. I wonder if the Minister is already preparing to make this a huge success. Finally, Mr President, two good compliments to the Minister. The first is for the national parks. I'm glad we're getting there now! It took a while. I know it was tough, but I'm glad it's going on. Finally, a compliment for the six tonnes per year for coral in the Caribbean. Every euro we spend on it is worth its weight in gold. The Minister has been there and has seen that there is a lot to do, often also practical things. I am thinking, for example, of cleaning up waste water and so on. But please, please, it is the most beautiful and largest nature reserve in the Netherlands. It's part of us and it's oh so vulnerable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u403	Thank you, too. Mr Moorlag has the floor on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u404	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you also to the Minister for replying. I'll read my motions first. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas breaking the deadlock in licensing, providing farmers with a future perspective near nitrogen-sensitive natural areas and the land-filling of the energy transition requires a lot of land and land mobility;]] [[Whereas the government is considering setting up an investment fund to increase the sustainable earning capacity of the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the government to identify how a land bank can make a good contribution to this,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIV-26]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u405	Then a slightly longer motion. He does not comply with the Hans Alders doctrine, which states that a good motion does not have more than a hundred words, but I have tried to express the nuance in it. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the current food production system, which the market and the government are responsible for, puts farmers under great pressure, creates insecurity of existence and also puts a heavy burden on nature, the environment and the quality of life;]] [[Whereas it is desirable and necessary to adopt a coherent long-term approach which offers farmers security of life and prospects for the future, which puts an end to the predatory nature and the environment, and which ensures the security and quality of food supply;]] [[Whereas it is desirable and necessary that all parties in the food chain, agricultural entrepreneurs, the food industry, large-scale retailers, all public authorities and nature and environmental organisations be involved in this process, and take responsibility for it;]] [[calls on the Minister to explore the willingness of these parties to work on a long-term agricultural, nature and food agreement and to inform the Chamber as soon as possible about the outcome,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Moorlag. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIV-27]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u406	This is inspired by the science, I also formulated it in the first term, that you at the union in the most violent actions, where emotions rose high, knew that you finally had to do business at the table. Mr. Chairman. I have made a critical comment on the concept of circular agriculture, as it is now. It is too non-binding, there is too little coherence, too little commitment and too little ownership of the parties. At the union, we used to say when you saw something like that: well, it's a very nice treat, but if you scratch it off, there's not much substance behind it. Well, that's a problem, isn't it? If the Minister wants to win a top prize with a successful ministership, I'll make the comparison with the scratch cards. You win a prize if all the boxes you scratch open have an equal image. If I look at this scratch-out coalition right now, if you scratch the box D66, something quite different will appear than if you scratch CDA or VVD. That predicts little good, and I wish the Minister every success.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u407	Thank you. Mrs Dik-Faber has the floor on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u408	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to thank the Minister for answering all the questions, both in writing and today in the debate. I have heard many fine promises, first of all the commitment on social service. The Minister welcomes it and we hope that it will discuss it with the various sectors. I am very pleased with that and I hope to have positive reactions in some time. We will wait and see, but perhaps the Chamber can be informed about the further steps in this matter. The Minister has also indicated that she wants to work with food from home in the ministries. She said that she also wants to transfer that warmly to provinces and municipalities, also a point that was raised by Mr Geurts. I think that as a government we can have a very good example. We have often called for supermarkets from the Christian Union: put more food from our own country on the shelf; why the beans from Morocco, when we ourselves have good beans? We can really set a good example in this as a government together with the local authorities. Mr. Chairman. I think I booked a Wednesday somewhere in March next year in my agenda, because then it's National Tree Festival Day. I look forward to planting trees. The idea of a baby tree was a playful suggestion. The forest strategy, which will undoubtedly be coming to the Chamber shortly, will be discussed further. I have one motion for a resolution following the debate. It's about a topic we'll discuss next week, about nitrogen. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas there are still many questions following the recent letter of formal notice;]] [[calls on the government to put forward an information point on nitrogen policy as soon as possible where entrepreneurs can address their questions;]] [[invites the Government to present to the Chamber before 1 November 2019 an overview of the questions that live,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Geurts. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIV-28]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u409	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u410	Thank you, too. I call Mrs Ouwehand on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u411	Mr. Chairman. In the first term, I have referred to the agricultural policy in the Netherlands over the last 30 years as a tragedy. So I didn't know it myself, but Wikipedia is a good source of tragedy too, with a good, happy ending, but you have to do something for that. Then you need to come to your senses, maybe with a little help. Perhaps the statements of LTO and POV that they no longer want to talk to the ministry are an omen that things can still work out. It just seems good if old vested interests are no longer at the table at the Ministry and that there will be some room for the facts, which, if it's okay, I doubt it a little bit. There's something I'm a little sad about. I understand that the coalition is fighting because one does not want to take those measures and the other does not, and therefore the Minister does not feel entirely free to take full responsibility for the agricultural policy that she herself outlines: long-term perspective, clarity for farmers, nature is important. She gives the sketch, but then gets countered. That's the statue. But there also seems to be a gag ban on the Minister simply to name the facts. I have given her a number of examples of what is happening in the debate on agriculture, which makes farmers feel inadequate and angry and I asked her if she could speak against it. One thing is: so much nitrogen has already been reduced by agriculture, we have already done so much. I get that when you're a farmer and you're told all the time, you get angry when a measure comes that affects you and not Schiphol. I have therefore invited the Minister here in this Chamber to say that, unfortunately, nature policy does not work that way. I set the example of the neighbor who throws ten garbage bags over your fence every day. After five days, if he says, "You know what, I'm only gonna do five more" you'll have 50 garbage bags and five more every day. That's how it works in nature policy. If you don't explain that to farmers, they're stuck in that mantra "I've done a lot already" and of course they're angry when measures start to hit them and other sectors don't. The Minister must explain how this nature policy works, that nature cannot have more ammonia and that only a reduction is insufficient. I just don't understand why that kind of knowledge shouldn't just be pronounced by the Minister. Or she doesn't want to, but I don't understand that either. Today's comments are mainly about the criticism of RIVM, but I think they are quite right. Don't feed that anger on farmers. Just tell farmers what's going on. Then everyone will understand, even if they are difficult measures, that it is better in the long term to start the reorganisation that is needed now, to take the time to do so and to make a plan for farmers to have the long-term perspective that the Minister himself was talking about. Mr. Chairman. Let me make one proposal that farmers have asked for and which the cabinet does not yet want, the Mercosur Convention. That is clarity that we can now offer. So the first motion is as follows. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the government has recognised that standards in agriculture in Mercosur countries are lower than European standards and that the EU has no option of forcing them to be raised;]] [[noting that the Government has recognised that there are no enforceable agreements in the EU-Mercosur Convention that protect the Amazon or prevent illegal deforestation;]] [[expresses the need for the Mercosur Convention to be removed from the table;]] [[calls on the Government to inform the European Commission that the Netherlands is withdrawing support for the Mercosur Convention,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIV-29]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u412	Mr. Chairman. The second motion is for the animals. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that both the second purple cabinet and the cabinet of the Balkenende IV for the welfare of animals in livestock farming set the objective of allowing the animal's perspective and behaviour to be guiding by 2022 at the latest;]] [[Whereas, in the agriculture circular note, the cabinet states that animal welfare should be "co-weighted" in policy proposals, plans and proposals;]] [[calls on the Government to lay down more specific conditions for animal welfare in the further development and implementation of the circular agriculture note;]] [[In doing so, the Government also calls on the aim of allowing the animal's perspective and its own behaviour to be guiding livestock farming in 2022,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the continued increase in the scale of livestock farming is leading to an increasing number of mega-stables and now the first gigastal;]] [[calls on the Government to impose a ban on mega-stables,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIV-30]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIV-31]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u413	Mr. Chairman. I asked the Minister yesterday to clarify the objectives before we start the debate on the problem of nitrogen next week. How much nitrogen should be reduced? I have asked for measures or scenarios to be presented which are well-founded and to clarify the resources that are being released. I am a little hesitant to table the motion I have before me now, because we are already having the debate next week. I shall therefore leave her out of it, but I can see that the information I have requested has not come. Then there are other motions on the nitrogen crisis. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas Dutch nature has a nitrogen blanket;]] [[Whereas the Council of State's PAS statement made it clear that a significant reduction in nitrogen emissions and the restoration of nature must be achieved before new permits can be granted;]] [[calls on the Government to apply this order,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in almost three quarters of the Dutch Natura 2000 sites the critical deposition value for nitrogen is exceeded;]] [[noting that the level of exceedance in the nitrogen-sensitive Natura 2000 sites in the Netherlands is the highest in Europe;]] [[noting that the public authorities must maintain or restore a favourable conservation status for Natura 2000 sites;]] [[calls on the Government to recognise that critical deposition values are subservient to a favourable conservation status;]] [[calls on the Government to set a legal deadline within which the critical deposition values of all Dutch Natura 2000 sites will be maintained,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Council of State's PAS statement made it clear that nitrogen emissions in the Netherlands should at least not increase;]] [[noting that many nature permits have latent space, which means that more nitrogen emissions are permitted than is currently being used in practice;]] [[noting that this would still allow livestock farms to expand, with all the consequences;]] [[requests the Cabinet to take all latent space within permits immediately and to strike,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the Cabinet has allocated EUR 200 million to voluntary schemes allowing farmers in the vicinity of Natura 2000 areas and in peat meadows to terminate, switch or relocate their farms;]] [[believes that it is very undesirable to put so much tax money into moving a problem;]] [[calls on the Government to use the schemes for livestock farms located near Natura 2000 sites and in peat meadows exclusively for the cessation of farms;]] [[calls on the Government to withdraw the manure production rights associated with the reorganisation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIV-32]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIV-33]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIV-34]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIV-35]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u414	I have a question about the previous motion. In it, the Party for Animals simply asks for license space to be taken away. Isn't that a form of theft?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u415	It will have to be compensated, but we do think it is cheaper to do it at the moment, if those animals are not in the stables yet, then to intervene once the stable is filled and those animals have suffered again. This includes following the rules of the rule of law, which means that when the government moves to expropriation, it has to compensate for that. That's part of this plan.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u416	That wasn't in today's motion. I think this is very rude to the farmers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u417	I certainly don't think it's rude. It is absolutely true that the measures that need to be taken will be fierce for farmers. I am pleased with the question, because it allows me to make it clear, whatever I did in the first period of time, that it includes a proper compensation, or, as we did in mink farming, that you choose a transitional period. The judge said that the interests of the mink and mink holders were sufficiently taken into account. In that light, you should see all the proposals the Party for Animals makes here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u418	I was just thinking about Mrs Ouwehand's opening words. This is a good time to ask that question. Did I just hear Mrs Ouwehand correctly and is my conclusion correct that she is calling on the Minister not to engage in any more dialogue with the agricultural representatives?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u419	The minister can talk to whoever she wants. The Party for Animals has always been opposed to the very intensive cooperation between the Ministry and the representatives of the interests. We are not in favour of large lobby groups. But now LTO and the POV themselves have said: we don't want to talk anymore if you don't do what we want. Then I think, okay, bye.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u420	There's a laugh in the room. I think it is very serious, because this remark is the axe at the root of our democracy, if there is simply no more talking to each other. I say to Mrs Ouwehand: I have stuck out my hand twice in television broadcasts, but Mrs Ouwehand has not grabbed him twice. I can see why not. You don't want dialogue. You don't want to compromise. You just want to push through your own will. I also heard you say something about mink farming. If you look closely at this: that is not a warm clean-up, that is not giving money. That's a cold, cold clean-up you've got on your conscience.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u421	Two points. Let's start with mink farming. Up to the supreme judge, and that is the right of everyone affected by government measures, the mink owners have asked: was this decision justified? The very last judge - they have all said it - has concluded: the interests of the mink holders have been sufficiently taken into account. That it's not nice that you have to stop your business, everyone understands that. However, the public authorities do have the task of taking measures to do justice to, in this case, the importance assigned to animal welfare. And she does it in a way you can fight in court. If we'd screwed up, the judge would have said the same thing. But the conclusion was: the interests were sufficiently taken into account. And about the talking, stop it! If you're gonna threaten "if you don't do what I say, I don't want to talk to you anymore," you've put every possibility of dialogue in the dirt.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u422	Finalizing, Mr. Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u423	We're not gonna talk about threats. You saw last night that some activists or, in this case, extremists were arrested at a rabbit farm. Don't talk to me about threatening. Let's get back to the mink farm and the fee for that. I think Mrs Ouwehand is very well aware of the fact that she just referred to the fact that there was a deadline in which the mink farmers could still make money. In that period little or no money has been made. So don't come up with that it's an honest cleanup. That's total bullshit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u424	Mr Geurts certainly does not read the stories about the millions of mink owners who have parked in foreign bank accounts, where the FIOD is after, and about the mink owner who prides himself on living a nice life with his millions. I'm basing myself on the judge's rulings. Again, to all the judges you can ask whether the government has acted correctly or not, the decision has been submitted. That is the right of the mink-holders, but the answer was always: the interests have been sufficiently taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u425	Mr President, the last time I interrupt Mrs Ouwehand on this point; thank you for your coulance. I say to Mrs Ouwehand: you should read your pieces carefully. You blame mink owners for falsehood in writing and so on. No, it was a fur dealer you just mentioned. At least, that's my impression based on the data I have. So don't go here in this parliamentary room blaming mink owners.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u426	We will wait and see, Mr Geurts is right. We have to wait and see what comes out of the investigation. But that the interests have been sufficiently taken into account and that the judges, even to the highest judge, came to that judgment, I would not deny Mr Geurts either, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u427	Mrs Ouwehand continues her speech.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u428	Yes. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that 45% of nitrogen emissions in the Netherlands come from livestock farming;]] [[noting the need for a significant reduction;]] [[noting that the Cabinet is fully committed to technological house adjustments;]] [[Considering, inter alia, that the General Court concludes that the impact of techniques is often overestimated and that additional measures are always needed to remain within the environmental limits;]] [[calls on the government to stop the planned subsidies for low-emission housing systems and other emission reduction techniques in livestock farming and to use these EUR 312 million for effective source measures,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the Cabinet is fully committed to technological house adjustments to reduce the emission of harmful substances into livestock farming;]] [[Whereas such investments encourage further economies of scale in order to render the investment profitable;]] [[noting that technical farm adjustments can also be used for the intensification of farms, but that the Minister of Agriculture leaves the choice between large livestock factories and small-scale farms with free range to the provinces;]] [[calls on the Government to allow technological innovations only if they are linked to exacerbation and stable adjustments aimed at the animal's perspective and its own behaviour,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[calls on the government to use the planned subsidies for wood-fired biomass plants for the transition to small-scale, extensive circular agriculture,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that billions of euros have already been invested in manure plants over the last 10 years and that hundreds of millions of euros are still at risk in the coming years;]] [[noting that manure digesters cause major nuisances and risks to residents due, inter alia, to odour nuisance, explosion risk and the possible release of toxic gases;]] [[noting that the fermentation of manure itself produces very little energy and that the climate gains are also minimal;]] [[calls on the Government to stop granting subsidies to manure fermenters,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIV-36]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIV-37]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIV-38]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIV-39]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u429	Mr. Chairman. My final point concerns agricultural poison. The Chamber has adopted motions for spray-free zones, but the Minister simply says: I am not implementing them. In doing so, it ignores the precautionary principle, which it could apply by introducing such a measure until it has been scientifically proven that residents are not at risk. I shall therefore table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Observed that population studies from 2014 and 2018 show that there are links between injecting agricultural poison and Parkinson's disease, leukaemia in children, and health effects on unborn children;]] [[noting that this year's Research on Pesticides and Surroundings shows that residues of agricultural poison are found in baby diapers in a radius of 250 metres around sprayed parcels;]] [[noting that the majority of this Chamber requested spray-free zones on plots, but that the Minister did not carry out these adopted motions;]] [[noting that the precautionary principle requires a competent authority to take appropriate measures to avoid specific potential risks to human health, safety and the environment;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to establish spray-free zones on the basis of the precautionary principle until it has been scientifically proven that residents are not at risk from health risks;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIV-40]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u430	Mr. Chairman. The final motion. We have seen that, at the forthcoming SCOPAFF meeting, this is that civil servants' consultation in Brussels which discusses, among other things, the authorisation of agricultural poison is a very dangerous substance nominated for renewal, namely Mancozeb. In the ZEMBLA broadcast on 16 September, scientists and farmers expressed their concerns about this substance. It is the most sold fungus fighter in Dutch agriculture. The dangers of this drug are potentially enormous. We would like the Minister to oppose the admission of this substance. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that several studies indicate a link between Parkinson's disease at a relatively early age and the medicine Mancozeb, the most sold fungal exterminator in the Netherlands;]] [[calls on the Government to oppose the extension of Mancozeb in Europe by voting against the extension of the authorisation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Ouwehand. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIV-41]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u431	Mr. Chairman. No one can blame me for making no proposals to change the policy of the cabinet. I don't know how many motions they were, but there were quite a few. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u432	I don't know if it was a record either, but...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u433	It wasn't a record.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u434	Okay. Mr. Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u435	I would like to return to the motion in which Mrs Ouwehand of the Party for Animals wants to remove all latent space from farmers. Does Mrs Ouwehand have any indication of the amount involved and has she also sent an amendment to the Chamber to cover this amount? I haven't seen that yet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u436	Given the failure of nature policy and the measures that the Cabinet will now have to take because it wanted a Programmatic Approach to Nitrogen if necessary in 2009, which has taken farmers and also taxpayers precious years in which a transitional period could have been set to work quietly towards these natural goals, the cabinet will have to pay for all the measures that are now needed for the acute protection of nature, which has now become very topical. So I am waiting for the resources that the cabinet is prepared to draw out, but it will run into the billions; I can tell Mr Geurts that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u437	At least now I have amounts: billions. Well, that's a really big bandwidth. But I don't have an amendment. So this is an uncovered motion. Mrs Ouwehand wants to change policy here, but the Party for Animals does not yet have much sense of finance.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u438	Well, I'll leave that entirely on the CDA's behalf. I first recalled how the debate ran here when the CDA invented the Programmatic Approach Nitrogen. I specifically asked for the costs of this instrument, which we were already warned about at the time, to be taken down by the judge. And then the CDA said: it really doesn't matter to us, because until then the companies just took advantage. I specifically asked about the consequences for either the taxpayer or the entrepreneurs, who are then confronted with measures or have to turn in licences. The scenarios were all there, and the CDA, which wants to take pride in the sound financial policy, has taken these risks knowingly and knowingly with the only argument: until then the companies have profited well.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u439	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u440	I would like to challenge Mrs Ouwehand to read the Acts and send me a copy of what she just said to see that it is also in a report somewhere.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u441	That's it. I happened to read it back this weekend, and I was very amused.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u442	I call Mr Wassenberg, also on behalf of the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u443	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have five motions, a few comments, a reflection, three unanswered questions, and I am going to incorporate them all into an artifact. I had six motions. The Minister knocked one out of my hands with her promise about the experimental animals. I thank her for that and I will come back to that later. The first motion, Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament ('),]] [[noting the lack of effective control and enforcement;]] [[calls on the Government to take licenses from fraudsters, at least until effective control and enforcement are in order,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that in 2011 the VIBEG agreement between the sector, civil society organisations and government agreed that fishing in the North Sea Coastal Zone and the Vlakte van Raan (Natura 2000 areas) will be sustainable by 2020;]] [[noting that it was also stated that "where sustainability is not promoted throughout the site, it may be appropriate to close the Natura 2000 sites in order to protect natural fauna';]] [[having regard to the opinion of the European Parliament ('),]] [[noting that the coastal zone is particularly vulnerable because there are many spawning areas of fish species;]] [[noting the lack of effective control and enforcement;]] [[calls on the Government to close the North Sea Coastal Zone and the Raan Plain for inshore fishing by 2020, if by that time sustainable fishing cannot be guaranteed without fraud,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Cabinet will invest in Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS), capture and storage of CO;]] [[noting that old and natural forests are also very effective in collecting and storing CO and are good for biodiversity;]] [[Whereas trees and forests can be considered as a natural form of CCS;]] [[calls on the government to use the budget for CCS to preserve and expand our forests,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in musk rat management the waterboards are obliged to spare animals all avoidable pain, tension and suffering and to consider non-lethal methods;]] [[noting that Swedish long-term research has shown that non-fighting ultimately results in population stabilisation at a low level;]] [[Whereas the field test on which the waterboard policy is based was short-lived and non-area-oriented and, in addition, there have been hardly any studies of preventive measures;]] [[calls on the government to put an end to the muskrat's national eradication policy;]] [[calls on the Government to ask the waterboards to launch a new long-term field test, with the emphasis on preventive measures and not combating them,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIV-42]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIV-43]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIV-44]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIV-45]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u444	Mr. Chairman. I had already thanked the Minister for the commitment on experimental animals. I would like to say a few words about that. A few months ago, the Co-operative Health Funds placed a call for funding for humane measuring models specifically focused on animal-free research. No less than 75 pre-applications have been received. This illustrates once again that the will is there within the scientific world, but that funding really is the limiting factor. The fact that health funds are making money available for this animal-free innovation is very positive, but unfortunately it is necessary, because the government has dropped into funding. In this respect, I welcome the Minister's commitment. I appreciate her answer and I hope that this can lead to a powerful stimulus for animal-free research, because that impulse is much needed. I have one more question. Can the Minister continue to inform the Chamber of progress? I suggested the idea a while ago. Obviously that had to land for a while and I understand that very well, but I think it is very important to keep the finger on the wrist here. Once again, I would like to express my appreciation and thanks for the Minister's response to this commitment. Then my final motion: [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that there has been an increase in crime in the outside world, including poaching, drug dumping, destruction of animal shelters and illegal tree hoods;]] [[noting that the police in the outskirts have largely been cut off;]] [[calls on the government to release funds to allow police to regain control and enforcement in the off-site area,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Wassenberg. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIV-46]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u445	I promised you three more unanswered questions to the Minister. I had asked for a response to the EU report of June 2019 on fishing fraud. The Minister replied briefly, but I would like to receive a letter in which she gives a more detailed account of the various recommendations contained in the report. I also wanted to know whether she was going to investigate the extent of the fishing fraud and whether it was going to investigate the extent of the damage to nature. And then my final question: will the Minister at the IPBES conference next year call for better monitoring of illegal fishing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u446	Thank you. Before I give the floor to the next speaker, I shall suspend the sitting for two minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u447	The next item is the debate on the LNV budget. We're in the second term of the Chamber. I call Mr Bishop on behalf of the SGP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u448	Thank you, Mr President. Let me begin by thanking the Minister for answering the questions. On some questions it might have been a little more important, but thank you very much for the conscientious answer and in that thank you is also understood the official support. I had three motions, but I decide not to file one. It is about supporting agricultural entrepreneurs in their conversion to organic or otherwise sustainable practices. There's a promise from the Minister. I would like to know at what time we in the Chamber are informed about the development of such ideas or plans. Then there's two more motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Considering that the Task Force on earning capacity calls for circular agriculture to be a transition fund;]] [[Whereas the Chamber adopted a motion for a resolution on a risk and investment fund (Motion Bishop 35000-XIV, No. 90);]] [[Considering that many measures are being taken in agriculture to reduce environmental and climate impact but that aviation remains out of the question;]] [[calls on the Government to include in its position on a transition fund the possibility of a limited increase in the flight tax in favour of a transition fund,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIV-47]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u449	And then the second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that many families and farms in the agricultural sector have great uncertainty about their future;]] [[Whereas agriculture is at a crossroads, taking into account, inter alia, the development of the agricultural vision, the Climate Agreement and the nitrogen dossier;]] [[considers that further sustainability of the agricultural sector should be developed together with the many entrepreneurs in this sector and not over the back of these entrepreneurs;]] [[calls on the government to use multi-annual agreements with a broad representation of the sector and chain parties in the agricultural sector;]] [[calls on the Government to:]] [[more steering based on measurements and practical experience;]] [[more practical research;]] [[a system approach instead of sequestered policies;]] [[multi-track policies that take greater account of the diversity of entrepreneurs;]] [[structural financial support in the case of sustainability, with further details of its form;]] [[more experimental space and rapid recognition of innovative techniques and management measures;]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Bishop. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIV-48]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u450	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u451	Thank you. Finally, Mr Baudet has the floor on behalf of the Forum for Democracy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u452	But I have more time than one minute, right?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u453	That's what you passed on. If you want to speak longer, you can, but that will depend on speaking time in other budgets.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u454	Yes. That's no problem at all. My old mentor, Roger Scruton, once said that the industrial revolution is perhaps the greatest tragedy in mankind's history. What he meant by it was that by industrialization man gradually became alienated from nature, from the organic association with the earth, with the soil, with the animals, and that also romance, the romantic art, is actually an attempt to preserve it somehow. For example, the sixth symphony of Beethoven, paintings from the nineteenth century and poetry of Baudelaire perhaps at some level. This development, this industrialization, has naturally continued. In the nineteenth century, it became more and more formal until there was actually an enmity of urban man, of urbanized man, towards organic interaction with nature, which characterized us all the way to the French revolution and the industrial revolution. We have become uprooted people who have developed an enmity with the rooting. As a result, the world has become divided into two categories. On the one hand, the people who live in the anonymous apartment buildings of the European Union, the mega bureaucracies, the activities, the cities that are completely surrounded by stone and in which we never again have earth under our feet and in which we actually survive as new cavemen, completely separate from nature, completely separate from the world. And on the other hand, that's the only thing modern man can imagine is an untouched, pure, unspoiled nature on which there is a completely romantic image of creatures who love each other, who live in harmony in peace and in health. But the role of man as a bridge, as a linker between on one side that pristine nature and on the other hand that building, that urbanization, that intelligence: it disappears. So the polite space disappears. That's actually what we're seeing here. All those quasi-religions of climate belief, all those quasi-religions of vegetarianism and the animal rights movement and all that kind of..., these are all quasi-religions that should replace polite space. And they are carried out by intensely urbanized people who are completely separated from nature, from the built environment, from the living environment. And that's actually, on a higher level maybe, the tragedy that's going on here. We are no longer able to see ourselves as standing above nature on the one hand, in connection with the divine, the higher, such as intelligence and so on, and on the other hand as connected with nature and the environment. That is why such bizarre plans are being launched, including by this heretic cabinet, which destroys the farmers, destroys the fishing industry and puts our entire economy at the heart of this venerated idol, namely the transition, with windmills, with solar panels and so on. And what we should actually do to keep our souls healthy, namely to maintain our connection with nature, we can no longer bring about. We can't imagine ourselves anymore. That is why I have a number of motions, which I hope will bring the cabinet back on its path.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u455	First, an interruption by Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u456	I distill out that the man who lives in the city just didn't understand it all and was sung loose. I have lost it; where does Mr Baudet himself live again?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u457	I think this is generally true, but not for everyone, because otherwise I would not be able to tell you all this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u458	Oh, thank God! So also people living in the city could have good ideas, for example about how to protect nature or how to keep the earth habitable. I'm glad that misunderstanding has been resolved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u459	Of course. But the point is that we do not fall into a division between people who, on the one hand, live completely apart from the seasons and apart from nature in an artificial vegetarian world, in which they never have earth under their feet again, and on the other hand, an idealized image of untouched, untouched nature. However, we must continue to look for the connection between them: man needs nature, but nature also needs man. It is precisely this cohesion that is in danger of being lost because of the fanaticism of the current dominant movement throughout the Western world. We see this not only in the Netherlands; this is happening throughout the western world. We want to bring that back. We want to bring that back organic and bring those seasons back. That can only be done if we have a realistic picture of nature and of all the concepts that are now being defended with a quasi-scientific aura: scientific report this, pollution that! That's all been dragged into the hair. That's mostly bullshit, but it has to be exposed. That's why I have six motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u460	I still have one more question. I read in the newspaper that Mr Baudet is being advised by Henk Bleker. He said, "You know what? Nature must be able to take a bit of a hit." We were supposed to connect nature reserves. He said, "We all don't do that anymore." He has put a strong line through the nature budget and a strong line through the natural connections. So I do not quite understand where this warm plea for Mr Baudet's nature is coming from. I'd love to believe in it, but you'd have to invest a little bit in nature, wouldn't you? Can Mr Baudet be quite clear about that? How does Forum for Democracy see that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u461	Once I have presented my motions, I think a lot of the ambiguity may have been resolved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u462	I hope so, too. Then I hope that this clarity will lead to this: "Nature deserves our protection. And let us come back to those rather dumb measures by Mr Bleker, who has just made far too much savings on nature. He has made sure that connections did not continue, which were however necessary to enable nature to drown itself again and become more robust. That has been a bit of a pity." I hope that is the thrust of the motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u463	I do not know what measures Mrs Ouwehand is referring to, but I do think I would like to qualify for the term 'protection of nature'. I think that's what this whole fraternity is about. "Protecting nature" is for her: "We put a large fence around it. That's nature. That's all good, because everything about nature is by definition good. People have to stay away from that." For me, "protection of nature" is protecting what I see when I drive through a landscape or bike or walk that has just been touched by people. I find this connection between man and nature beautiful and important. I think the cohabitation, in which certain religious rituals may also have a place and where the seasons have a place, is important. That's exactly what matters to me. That's exactly what I like. This requires a realistic nature view. That's what I miss about the Animal Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u464	The Party for Animals does not want a fence for nature. The Party for Animals says: connect those nature reserves together. I am a little afraid that Mr Baudet's natural image differs little from that of Mr Bleker, who said: you know, a cow in the meadow is also nature.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u465	I do; that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u466	Yeah, that's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u467	I think that's even fantastic nature. Without man, there were no cows and no livestock. If there were no carnivores, Mrs Ouwehand, then we never had all those beautiful animals in the meadow.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u468	Unbelievable. It is clear where Mr Baudet stands. His beautiful singing of praise to nature actually comes down to Mr Bleker's very shaky view of nature. These meadows are monocultures of English rai grass; there are no more herbs or flowers in them. Despite his fine words about nature, Mr Baudet actually says: a cow in the meadow is also nature, even if there, apart from that cow, no living creature crawls around.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u469	Not that last one, absolutely not.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u470	I think it's a nice debate, it's a nice philosophical one, so I'm giving room for it, but time is running. There are also six motions to be tabled, and there is still a judgment to be given on all motions. But go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u471	What Mr Baudet started with, I also found interesting, but sometimes a conclusion comes out that I have my doubts about. What kind of nature does Mr Baudet see before him? I can give an example of a landscape: the old shopping landscape in the Netherlands. There's peasant nature with the cow in the meadow. In the back of those meadows there used to be very low nitrogen soil, with lots of herbs, because the cows didn't actually walk there; it was a kilometer long. At the farm there was another vegetation, a bit more nitrogenous. If you have to choose, is it the same, or does the whole meadow have to be very nitrogenous? What exactly does such a shopping landscape look like?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u472	Well, I think you mean "that's how I understand the question of "at least" whether I consider variety important. Is that right? I see you nodding. Yeah, I think that's important, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u473	It is very important, because if you want variety, you will have to reduce nitrogen emissions throughout the Netherlands, specifically around nitrogen-sensitive natural areas, otherwise we will have a monotonous, nitrogen-rich landscape, like the meadows that were very close to that farm. You will have to take action.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u474	Yeah, that's what I'm questioning. I do not think that the measurements, but also the calculation model with which cabinet policy is now being made, are right. That's one. Two: I do not think that the values 'in other words the consequences 'of these models' are right either. For example, it is about the radius within which nitrogen descends or does not descend, the impact it would have on the ground, and so on. That is exactly what we are going to organise a hearing next week, and we are going to have a specific debate on this next week. I think I might be able to convince you. I really think that both the observations and the analyses of those observations are based on loose sand and not good.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u475	Rounding up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u476	Yes, very briefly. The same meadow of the buying landscape is now completely nitrogen-saturated. So, regardless of which calculation model you want to use, there is too much nitrogen. That's what nature itself says. If you yourself...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u477	No, that's not what nature says. Nature doesn't speak, so...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u478	No, Mr Baudet, Mr De Groot is still speaking.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u479	Nature speaks. Everything that grows there says: I like nitrogen. What doesn't like nitrogen doesn't grow anymore. So if you want variety, regardless of any measurement method, you will have to do something about nitrogen emissions. That's the conclusion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u480	That's what I'm questioning. That is exactly the actual discussion that we are going to bring to the hearing next week. I am convinced that the arguments we then put forward are so strong that even Dr. The Great Possibly will change his mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u481	I'd also like to put a dime in the bag.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u482	That's what I thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u483	Here is the ideal image of man that Mr Baudet sketches. During the week I live here in that petrified area, on a small flat twelve-storey, not connected to the ground. And on the weekends, I'll be in Northeast Groningen. Then I drove over the salt marsh of the Dollard and I'm all the way into the open space. So I think that combination is already possible. I am also in favour of the European Union. That's me both at the salt marsh and at the apartment. That's what I have to say. Let's talk about the connection between the cultural landscape and nature. Is Mr Baudet aware that there is a very strong movement in Friesland that is committed to preserving the knowledge of fan'e greide?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u484	Mr von Martels asked for clarification.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u485	I spoke it out on his Frisian. I mean the king of the meadow. That's the grutto. That is the ideal image of the Frisians, of their identity, of nature. That's some kind of canary in the coal mine. And it's not going well with that canary in the coal mine, with that grutto. Can I count on the support of Mr Baudet if we are going to put forward proposals here to restore the grutto stock in Friesland? And also in Groningen, because I'm too much Groninger for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u486	We will look at this seriously when the proposal comes forward.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u487	Good. I have one final question. Does Mr Baudet even know what a grutto is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u488	I am in the blessed circumstance that I have someone opposite me who would very much like to explain.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u489	I propose that Mr Baudet continue his speech and table his six motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u490	Oh! Well, that's too bad. Good. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that Dutch phosphate and nitrate rules are significantly stricter than comparable rules in our neighbouring countries;]] [[noting that this is a structural disadvantage for our farmers and a loss of competitiveness;]] [[noting that the lack of clarity created by the introduction of new rules has caused some 1,000 farms to become so weak that they are threatened with bankruptcy;]] [[whereas our farmers deserve our support;]] [[Whereas a minister who looks on her phone usually agrees to such motions;]] [[calls on the government to make a substantial contribution to the compensation of farmers in difficulty;]] [[calls on the Government to examine how, in line with the example of other EU Member States, the Habitat and Birds Directive can be extended as far as possible in favour of our agricultural sector and to present the results by summer 2020,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the standards for active nitrogen compounds in the Netherlands are some 140 times stricter than those in Germany;]] [[noting that there is no serious environmental or nature problem with regard to our nitrogen depositions;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to amend the Nature Protection Decision and to align the Dutch nitrogen threshold value with the thresholds in Germany, so that it can be rebuilt immediately, farmers do not need to be renovated and the maximum speed does not need to be reduced,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the Council of State's negative opinion on the ammonia testing framework in 2008 does not refer to an excessive nitrogen deposition, but merely to the block exemption for certain categories of projects;]] [[whereas the PAS was rejected for exactly the same reason;]] [[Whereas, therefore, the Council of State has never ruled on the application of higher limit values than necessary as such, in spite of what the Minister thinks;]] [[calls on the Cabinet to ask the Council of State for information on the possibility of implementing a nitrogen approach in the Netherlands according to a German model, with broader limit values,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas national policies should be based on sound scientific evidence;]] [[Whereas there should be no doubt as to the quality and validity of independent calculators;]] [[noting that the Minister is looking at her phone;]] [[noting that serious doubts have recently arisen as to the reliability of RIVM's measurement methods and calculation models;]] [[whereas RIVM does not wish to disclose its calculation model;]] [[calls on the government to immediately make fully public the calculation method used by RIVM;]] [[calls on the Government to instruct an independent Examination Office to review and assess RIVM statistical models for reliability,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the United Kingdom intends to leave the European Union for which it pays tribute;]] [[noting that this leads to uncertainty in the Dutch fisheries sector;]] [[Whereas the fisheries sector deserves support;]] [[calls on the government to make a European commitment to the position of Dutch fishermen in the North Sea, even after the Brexit,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIV-49]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIV-50]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIV-51]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIV-52]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIV-53]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u491	Finally. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Netherlands has been the largest net contributor of the European Union for years;]] [[noting that the pulse fishing sector is a contemporary pearl of Dutch innovation, and thus fits entirely within our national tradition of ingenuity and ingenuity;]] [[noting that pulse fishing is animal-friendly because by-catch is significantly lower and the seabed is less affected than in regular fisheries;]] [[Whereas in the past, pulse fishermen have been encouraged by public authorities to invest in their businesses;]] [[calls on the government to fully support the pulse fishing sector and to deduct any fines from the annual contribution of the Netherlands to the EU,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Baudet. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35300-XIV-54]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u492	That's it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u493	There is an interruption by Mr Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u494	So it wasn't quite that. I had to laugh at Mr Baudet's remark that pulse fishing is animal-friendly. Has Mr Baudet ever seen the broken backs of fish that at some point completely cramped, because they have so many muscles? They come under current, causing the muscles to contract and the back of the fish to break. Has Mr Baudet ever seen footage of that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u495	No, but I can imagine that in itself that doesn't mean animal suffering, because that cramp can also be a rigor mortis. You might or might not be able to figure that out. But whether it's more than the suffering of a fish caught with a hook or a net, I'm completely doubtful.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u496	Rigor mortis occurs in dead animals and not in live animals. When a fish comes under current, when its muscles tighten and its back breaks, it's not a rigor mortis. Sorry, but perhaps Mr Baudet should stick to his own field of expertise in that respect. A fish whose back breaks: that's not a rigor mortis, that's animal suffering.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u497	Yeah, okay, but wait a minute. When does that fish die?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u498	That could take a long time. That fish dies from a spinal cordial injury. But rigor mortis is the rigor that occurs after death. I don't know if that happens to fish at all, either, but rigor mortis is really something else.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u499	That's true, so that term wasn't quite right. I agree. But just one more thing: what you're saying is that's a big part, some, or some... What are you talking about? Not all fish, of course, but some. What's the percentage?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u500	A substantial percentage. It's going to be about 10%.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u501	Yeah, yeah. Since I'm used to you exaggerating a little, it's probably 6% to 7%. Something like that. Have there been statistically relevant comparative studies of the amount of suffering involved compared to being caught in a net and so on? That's what it's all about. If we are to proceed comparatively, we must compare it with each other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u502	There is generally very little discussion among scientists about how much a broken back is an annoying death. It really is. Can you tell in three digits behind the decimal point how much animal suffering that is? No, I can't. I can say that a broken back is not a rigor mortis and it means a lot of animal suffering.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u503	Good. Mr. Baudet, would you like to finish your speech, or were you already at the end of your speech?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u504	I was at the end of my speech, but I am still thinking about these interesting remarks made by Minister Wassenaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u505	Wassenberg.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u506	... Wassenberg to think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u507	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. We're suspending until quarter past... No, we're not, because there's one more comment. Mr Wassenberg had asked a question, but he had not put it quite correctly. You want an answer from the Minister, Mr Wassenberg, and that is why I allow you to ask that question as well. Then I'm gonna suspend until 11:15.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u508	In my question to the Minister, I was mistakenly referring to the IPbes conference. That should have been the CBD conference. That is the conference in Beijing in 2020, which I also mentioned in the first term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u509	Good. I shall suspend the sitting until 11.15 p.m.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u510	We need the second term from the cabinet. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Go ahead.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u511	Certainly, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna go answer some questions first. I shall then move on to the motions and then there is an amendment by Mr Futselaar. Firstly, the questions that have remained, starting with the planting of trees with Mr Graus and Mr Geurts in Limburg. It is true that I made a commitment last year and that I failed to do so. Mr Graus is quite right about that. We're just gonna organize that. That's what I'm really gonna do. Then there's the question about Wings for Animals. In the written reply I have already stated that the Netherlands has no active role in the case of a transport of a live tiger. We are just a transit country and then Schiphol is just a stopover in transport. The necessary cites and veterinary documents should also really be requested from the authorities in Argentina and not by us. I do believe that we are just going through the right procedure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u512	Those papers are all in order. The animal can leave November 8th. It's just that there's got to be some pressure. If someone from the government says to KLM "just get it done," then... The money doesn't have to be the big problem either. We just need some pressure so that that animal can be transported. Everything's pico bello okay. The animal can be transported in such a way. It's all taken care of, because the homework is well done.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u513	Perhaps they will listen to this debate and hear what Mr Graus has said about it. Mrs Lodders once again asked for confirmation of the policy on external netting in agriculture. I would like to stress that this is a matter of agriculture, because we must be in a position to do so. It will not be opened until further notice. Mr Geurts asked a question about the talks that LTO and the PVO no longer want to have. Indeed, I received these messages this evening during the debate. I also understand that there are concerns, that there is uncertainty and that there are questions about the elaboration of the letter. I would like to stress that up to today we have always worked constructively together and that we have also really taken steps towards the future, including the sustainability of livestock farming. I think it is in this particular situation that it is incredibly important that we continue to have that conversation with each other. My door is always open to that! I would like to tell these organizations through your Chamber that I would like to invite them to return to that conversation. Just when there are questions, we have to go through them carefully. So I won't reject them. Mr De Groot has a number of questions, including the implementation of the Jetten/De Groot motion, which deals with biodiversity. I sent a letter to the Chamber on Monday, I believe, on biodiversity. I have indicated that I am still working on how we intend to work out the Jetten/De Groot motion and that I will inform the Chamber separately. So that's still coming your way. Mr De Groot also asked whether we could also use nitrogen images and measurements from space. Yeah, we can look into that. He also asked in Nature's AO what I could look at with my Secretary of State, no, that was a question from Mrs Bromet, an apology from BZK. I will come back to this by the end of the year at the latest. That's what we're gonna do. The point of coral and BES. Mr De Groot says that this is incredibly important. I myself have been there recently and have seen how much it affects, if the coral is hit, indeed the largest nature reserve we have, the Sababank at Saba, on Dutch territory also directly affects, for example, the economy of those islands, because it is, of course, incredibly important for recreation. I've also seen how complex the problem is. On the one hand, you have the climate change that affects the coral. On the other hand, you have developments such as that a lot of land is eaten bare, for example by goats, which in turn causes erosion, causing the stone to flow back into the ocean and destroys the coral. So there are a lot of aspects. That's exactly why we're making that coral protection plan. I share Mr De Groot's urgency that something really needs to be done about this quickly. Mrs Dik-Faber asked when I could clarify social service. I would like to make that clear to the Chamber before Christmas. I will contact my colleague from VWS, who is responsible for this. Then to Mr Bishop's question as to the length of time at which the Court is informed of the commitment to discussions with the sector on financial instruments. I have already promised to inform the Chamber further about this in the first half of 2020. The Party for Animals had asked me a question in the first term about muskrats, on which I have to come back. The question was about management versus control. It is true that the waterboards are responsible for controlling the muskrat, but this summer the Union of Water Councils agreed to a broader strategy to combat it, because the muskrat also causes damage to the water system. There's the difference. Then Mr Wassenberg also asked if I could send a letter on the appreciation of the EU study on the fraud sensitivity of engine power. We are currently carrying out a policy analysis of this study and I will also forward it to you for the Fisheries AO on 5 December. Mr Wassenberg also asked for a response to the EU report on fishing fraud. He asked about the extent of the fraud, the duration, and also whether I would raise the issue of illegal fishing fraud with the CBSD. I have just said that I will send a letter on the appreciation of the EU report. I'm not gonna go into all kinds of stuff right now. That really is a national matter, and I am not going to include it in that conference. Do I want to continue to inform the Chamber of progress in funding animal-free research? Of course. That is also what I will take with me in the progress letter for the TPI. That's when we inform the Chamber about that every time. There was one more question that Mrs Bromet had asked and I did not answer. She didn't come back to that, but I do think that question is important. It's about Holwerd aan Zee. She asked in her first term... The initiators of Holwerd aan Zee are a long way away, but they are not quite there yet. Do I see opportunities to meet them? We have already made funds available from the Region Deal for the Holwerd aan Zee initiative. I note that at the moment of the 25 million from the Regional Deal that has been closed for the whole of North-East Friesland, in which Holwerd aan Zee is also present, 11 million is not yet divided. Then it is a first logical step to see if you can reach further agreement on this in the region. I'd like to intercede in that. That's what I want to do. In addition, the Minister of IenW and I will report to your Chamber on the investments made in the budget for the Programmatic Approach to Great Waters. In this context, the regions have been asked to come forward with proposals. It might be possible, I cannot yet promise whether it will be hard to see Holwerd aan Zee again whether it is applying for it. I can't promise that that will lead to anything, but it would still be a possibility. Then I'll get to the motions. The motion in part No. Mr Madlener's 11th report deals with the relaxation of environmental rules. I don't recommend that motion. In fact, nitrogen emissions have fallen over the last 20 years, but that is not good enough to actually improve the condition of nature. It is therefore necessary to further reduce nitrogen emissions. To relax environmental rules is contrary to that, so I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 12 is really on the premises of my colleague from JenV. The bill states a ten-year deadline. I just explained what that's based on. I would therefore recommend that this point be discussed with JenV's colleague in the legislative proposal. So you could either arrest her or involve her in the bill.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u514	I have a question for the Minister. On an independent sentence, however, this minister has an influence, that it can be imposed as an independent punishment, for example, I would like to mention something called 'the Member' or 'the NVWA'. That could just happen and then it's on this minister's plate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u515	It'll go along with the bill. So I would really involve this discussion in the legislative proposal, because that is where it is arranged.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u516	Then I'm gonna arrest her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u517	At the request of Mr Graus, I propose his motion (35300-XIV, No. 12), as last amended by Regulation (EC) No 40/94 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u518	Then the motion to part No. 13, on an occupational ban where there is work-related contact with a convicted animal abuser. This is also on the premises of JenV's colleague. I can tell him that this question has been asked here, but I would advise the PVV group to take it myself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u519	Mr Graus states that he also has the motion in part No. 13 in this regard.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u520	Okay. Fine. Then the motion to part No. 14, requesting the involvement of the Veterinary Forensic Team in the LED. The D.A.'s office decides which experts it will use for the forensic investigation. The Minister of JenV has examined whether more use of forensic research is needed. At the end of 2019, at the end of this year, he will send that investigation to the Chamber. Here too, I would like to pass on this question to him, but this really lies with the Minister of JenV.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u521	Mr Graus already says he wants to arrest her, but he also has one question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u522	Yeah, I have one question. This minister does deal with the LED, the National Expertise Centre for Animal Abuse. They don't involve that Veterinary Forensic Team and they do get money from this minister, from the ministry of this minister. My question is, how can the only two experts and the only veterinary forensic doctor from all over Europe not be involved in this LED? I just can't understand that. I have to tell you. I made a work visit there with the Minister. That vet wasn't qualified at the time, but she is. The story we were told at the time, that she was therefore prevented, does not go on anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u523	It is complicated to enter into the very specific case and more importantly it is really up to the Public Prosecutor to decide when it will use where at what time. I can't help but dissuade this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u524	Mr Graus states that he is also holding this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u525	Then the labelling of products of ritually religiously slaughtered animals, the motion in part no. 15. The motion already assumes that there will be a ban. I think we still have a bill for that. We currently have a covenant, an addendum and a translation into an AMvB. The Chamber has already been informed of the separate and identifiable removal of meat from unspoiled cut animals. The practical implementation of this requires a few further steps, and there are still some issues that we need to resolve. I am not going to introduce an obligation in advance. So I'm not suggesting this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u526	It says "up to a possible ban." Well, that's essential. I believe that there will certainly be a ban one day, but I would like 'to ban it' to be removed if colleagues have problems with it. I am concerned that a lot of people who do not want to eat ritually tortured meat are now forced to do so, because the meat is not labelled. I even know that the Christian Union, i.e. the minister's own party, has once been in favour of all meat being labelled. So why not this? You can't shop selectively in that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u527	I have just indicated why I am giving this motion this judgment. That's it. So I'm gonna dissuade her. Then the motion to part No. 16, on the inclusion of the lion on another cites list. I have already promised once that I will take this into account in the preparation within the EU. This is for the benefit of the next "Cites" summit in 2022. The last time there was something for it and then we couldn't really change it anymore. Then Mr Graus asked: can we not do that for the next time? I promised to do that. That is a real commitment and that is what I am doing. Technically, I should discourage this motion, but in fact I already deal with the spirit of the motion. So maybe it's an idea to hold that motion. It's kind of lame, but I'm really working on this, and we're watching this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u528	I shall therefore proceed with this motion, because I would like to be for the Minister's sake. But the motion also says something about mass trafficking in cheetahs. Our country, apart from the EU, has not ensured that these cheetahs are better protected. I don't understand. I know that the Minister normally does everything at EU level, but there was also a vote on the cheetahs. The Netherlands has simply voted against a resolution, I believe of Ethiopia and another African country, which I do not remember. I do not understand why the Netherlands has done so, because it has always been said here that optimal protection is provided, including for those cheetahs.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u529	I know we really had a discussion about the lion, but I don't know how we voted on the cheetah. I find that complicated. Let me say that I am in the process of acting precisely in the spirit of this motion in response to the commitment I made earlier to Mr Graus.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u530	So I'll hold on to this motion, but I'll come back to the AO Animal Welfare, and then I'll make sure I have all the information.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u531	At the request of Mr Graus, I propose his motion (35300-XIV, No. 16) by the Court of Justice. That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u532	The motion in part No. 17.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u533	I really shouldn't recommend that motion. The police are very reluctant to do so, also in order to prevent violence escalation. Employers can ask the police for permission for heavier armament, but the police determines whether additional armament is possible and necessary. This is also considered for each specific situation. So I'm going to dissuade this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u534	Forest rangers encounter heavily armed poaching gangs in the middle of a forest. Some of them don't even have direct contact with the police. But it could take half an hour for the police to get here. I've got that information from policemen myself. That ranger's just in danger, 'cause he's gonna meet some of those idiots with semi-automatic weapons. Surely in this time, a ranger can no longer be unarmed? I think it used to be perfectly normal. Back then, you had the field police; Mr. Wassenberg referred to that as well. Now that the field police are gone, and now that the animal police have stuck at 180, we need to better arm the green boas.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u535	I have already indicated with JenV's colleague how we deal with the green boas and how we want to help them. But this is a very specific competence which we should not simply give generically. It can be looked at by specific situation, and so does the police. But these generic couples, I think, go too far. Those who know about this need to make further choices.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u536	Those who know about it lie at night with their wife and that forest ranger sitting there with those Polish and Romanian poaching gangs. So those people who say "we're looking" have easy chatting. I used to go with forest rangers. It's gonna be really thin on you when you run into these guys. They're really idiots. And there you are with your mobile phone or your radiophone; that will help you. Those people can wait half an hour there until there's a police car. They've had to deploy a SWAT team twice in Brabant.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u537	Your point is very clear. The Minister, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u538	The police are going over it. And I also know that a lot of cops aren't on one ear at night, but they're still hard at work. And I think Mr Graus knows that, too. Then there is the motion on housing the Animal Welfare Team, the LID and the Green Boas at the Ministry of Justice and Security. The boas are already covered by VenJ. The green boas are employed by employers that I have no influence on. As for the positioning at JenV of the Animal Welfare Team, the NVWA and the LID, I'd start pulling things apart. I think we can see that the Animal Welfare Teams are doing a good job at NVWA. Hanging them somewhere else just makes it more bureaucratic, so I would advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u539	This is currently a very topical motion. People who control other people, namely NVWA, should simply be intimidated in the workplace. They're scared. They're afraid to lose their jobs. We are dealing, from Mr Futselaar, Mrs Ouwehand to even Mr Geurts, with whistleblowers. Those people are terrified of losing their jobs. They are abandoned by their superiors. The other day, a vet was assaulted. There's not even a chef coming to a trial or to the precinct to press charges. Those people are completely alone. They're dealing with harassment. This is a request that comes from all over the world: place them with Justice and Security, then we are off the hook. That someone in this minister's ministry, who the minister doesn't do anything about, doesn't hide intimidations out of fear of losing his job... Then you've pulled it off and then these people can do their jobs without being obstructed and intimidated by their superiors within the Ministry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u540	I don't recognize that they're being obstructed within the Ministry. But I think that next week, during the general consultation of NVWA, we will be able to discuss this subject further.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u541	Then I'll take this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u542	At the request of Mr Graus, I propose his motion (35300-XIV, No. 18). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u543	Mr. Graus says "that's good." I am really trying to meet Mr Graus. The knowledge and advice centre simply functions well. They provide advice, knowledge, research and training, including in terms of prevention and control. I think they're doing everything Mr Graus wants. The KAD is already involved in the plan of action, so to put a separate unit next to it... I think we'll do double work. I think we should just let the KAD do its job. They do so to the full satisfaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u544	Mr President, the last time this day, because this is my last motion. Or do I have another motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u545	No, this is the last one.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u546	Don't you think the name was made up, Rodentorium? That's beautiful! We're dealing with the barn fires, and that's what everyone's worried about, left and right. All colleagues think that something should be done about that, even Mr Geurts, who likes animals more on the board and so on. Even he's behind it. Now here's what's important. We need a knowledge center for rodent management. For example, rats are evolution champions. You shouldn't let them in first and then kill them. You have to get ahead of it: prevention as the best biocidal product. There really needs to be a knowledge center, because there isn't. Mr Wijnman... I hope the best man gets to be very old, but he's already a gentleman of his age, and if he ever falls away, what do we have left? We don't have a knowledge center...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u547	You've already told me that in your term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u548	We really need animal-friendly rodent management. We gotta get ahead of ourselves. The same goes for the gnawing fires, the barn fires. That's the point, of course. Can't the Minister even investigate or take this with him?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u549	Finally, the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u550	The KAD is a knowledge and advisory centre. So that center is there. I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u551	The motion in part No. 20.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u552	The motion in part No. 20 asks the government to make it clear how the various methods mentioned work abroad and to examine whether these methods are also useful for the Dutch situation. In addition, the proposers also ask for the measurement network to be extended. Those two things I can judge Room, but one thing I can't. This is the consideration that improved measurements are necessary in order to be able to take targeted measures that can also be supported. I have indicated that what we have now is the best we have, that improvements are possible and that we also want to do so by increasing the number of measurement points. I could give this motion judgment Chamber if that consideration were removed from the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u553	I hear what the Minister says. I think that the thrust of the motion, which we mean by this, is clear, especially in view of the explanatory statement in the first and second periods. So I'm gonna think about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u554	But I must have the judgment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u555	I have indicated that I can give the motion judgment Chamber if that consideration comes out. If not, I'll advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u556	It is late and I do not want to be faint, but I would like to hear exactly what the operative part is going to change more than what the Minister has already promised about involving foreign studies and extending the measurement network.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u557	The study which I had been asked for was only concerned with the Danish situation. This motion also calls for a broader examination of the various validated methods available abroad. I need to see which other methods they are, so this one goes a little further into that. In that sense, I can then give the motion judgment Chamber. I will really look into that, should that consideration go out of the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u558	Finally, Mr Futselaar.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u559	I look forward to an analysis of the nitrogen policy of the Federal Republic of Micronesia.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u560	If they have a good system that we can look at, I will. I need to know where that country is first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u561	The motion in part No. 21.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u562	The motion in part No. 21 is the motion on the food waste and the food banks. I have already said that I will talk to my colleague from SZW. I will also take the thrust of this motion into account in the discussions. In that sense, I can therefore give the motion judgment Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 22. In the operative part, the government is asked to work together with Wageningen University, the University of Amsterdam and other knowledge institutes in our neighbouring countries and the Foundation Mesdagfonds to see how to improve measurement. I think it is important that we really look with other scientific institutes to see how the measurement method can be improved, but I would like to keep that in the scientific institutes. I'm fine with other people asking, "What's it like?" And "can you explain it to us?', But I really think that looking at it and measuring it is a scientific task. I would therefore like to focus on the scientific parties. The request then states "the said research institutes'. I take it that's what the scientific research institutions see. If Mr Geurts and Mrs Lodders are prepared to allow the knowledge institutes to do this work, so I say that the Foundation can watch and ask questions, then I can give the motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u563	I'm going to sleep on it for a while, but I can follow the Minister's reasoning. I need to think about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u564	Fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u565	Does this mean that the motion will be dissuaded if that adjustment is not made?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u566	[[Sentence could not be parsed: Ik zou dan zelf ...]] Anyway, I'm gonna fill out the motion for Mr. Geurts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u567	I'm gonna make it easier. I can follow the Minister's line and I agree with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u568	Then I can give the motion judgment chamber. I think it would be a good idea to take the Foundation Mesdagfonds out of that place, so as not to be unclear about it. But it is well understood that we are putting research institutions at a different level than foundations. The motion in part No. 23 is about the greenhouse horticulture and CCU. I can well imagine what is being asked in this way in this motion. I'll leave that judgment to the Chamber. Then the motion to part No. 24 by Mr Futselaar. Mr Futselaar says that it is precisely the scientists who should give the scientific analysis and judgement, but now he is asking us as ministers to give an opinion on this. I don't think that's right. Science is allowed to assess and validate science. Ministers who are going to judge scientists again... Here Mr Futselaar is actually asking what he blames others for. So I would advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u569	It is indeed very sad that this sort of thing happens in politics, but if there is any ambiguity, I think it is up to the person responsible to give the correct direction. So I'll have the motion put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u570	That is possible, but I think I have explained quite clearly in the debate how I see it. If it is not enough for Mr Futselaar to speak on behalf of the cabinet, in which the cabinet really speaks with one voice, then I shall return this to Mr Futselaar. But I would advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 25, on the appointment of an external independent party to investigate what actions or financial resources are needed for the NVWA. That is exactly what we are doing now in the context of the broad rethink. There is also an investigation into the relationship between tasks and resources. So that's already happening. The results will be sent to the Chamber in due course. So this motion is actually superfluous. That's why I'm telling her off.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u571	In any case, it is good to hear that the Minister is able to declare a motion superfluous if it is already being carried out. I'll hold the motion. If that investigation is there, I can always decide if one more is needed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u572	At the request of Mr Futselaar, I propose his motion (35300-XIV, No. 25). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u573	Then the Moorlag motion in part No. 26. Mr Moorlag and I had an interrupting debate on the ground bank for a while. I have already said that there will already be a lot of cases under the Investment Fund. I would not want what Mr Moorlag is proposing. I don't think it's gonna help the discussion. So if Mr Moorlag is prepared to change his motion and take that part out of the motion, and we understand with each other that the ground bank is not a national land bank, but that I am really going to check with the provinces what's going on there, then I can give this motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u574	The recital is correct in itself. It is being considered to set up such an investment fund, but if the Minister wants to separate it completely from that...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u575	In doing so, do you amend the motion by deleting that second recital?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u576	The observation is not factually incorrect, but I would like to take away the picture here that the Minister is obliged to establish a link there. So that should do it, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u577	Yes, but then it can also be put in: considering that grass is green. Yeah, you know, I think you're reading a motion in the light of such a consideration. So I think we're very close together, Mr. Moorlag. I would advise you to take that consideration out of this motion. Then I can give the motion judgment chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u578	I'll think about that for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u579	Then the judgment is "dissuaded" as long as it is not adjusted.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u580	Yeah, as long as it doesn't change.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u581	The Moorlag motion in part No. 27.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u582	The agricultural agreement. We've talked about this before. During the debate a number of things were said about this. I advise against this motion. Then the motion-Dik-Faber/Geurts in part No. 28, on the nitrogen policy information point. The motion calls for a picture of the questions that live before 1 November. The information point I promised. I am prepared to respond to the second point. Then I can give the motion judgment chamber. The motion-Old-Hand in part No. 29 is again all about the Mercosur Convention. That is a discussion the Chamber is having with the Minister of BuHa-OS. I would like to leave the discussion there too, because this treaty sees a lot of things. So I would advise against this motion, and if Mrs Ouwehand continues the motion, I would advise her to involve her in the debate on BuHa-OS and not in this debate. So I advise against this motion. Then there is the Old-Hand motion in part No. 30 on more specific conditions for animal welfare. I have already indicated in my letter Animal Welfare what the government is working on with regard to animal welfare. I've already made myself clear on what we're focusing on, so I'm not recommending this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u583	Does the Minister recognise that in the letters she sent on animal welfare no link has been made to circular farming? It has identified priorities such as care for young animals, and then it is about the mortality of calves and piglets and goats, and transport. For the barn systems, in the light of the circular vision it sees in front of it, no more has come out of the cabinet than animal welfare has to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u584	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u585	Fine, then the Chamber will know what is going on here and does not think that there is anything in those letters, because that is not about the circular agriculture.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u586	The view is that animal welfare is taken into account. In the letter on animal welfare, I made a concrete statement on which the cabinet will focus in the coming years, so we have already communicated a number of things. Then there is the Old-Hand motion in part No. 31, on the ban on the mega-stables. I have just said that this is really the responsibility of the provinces and the municipalities in which these stables arise and what they look like in terms of size and standards. They are the competent authority and take that responsibility. They also lay down rules, for example on spatial planning and the environment. Nature rules also apply. Environmental policy sets limits to its size, so that's already completely invested, not just with me, but with the provinces and the municipalities, so I advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 32, on a major reduction in nitrogen emissions before new permits can be granted. I indicated in the letter of 4 October what the government's line is on licensing and how we think we are going to bring down the deposition. The starting point is that consent is only granted in case of constant or decreasing nitrogen deposition or if external degradation occurs. We also focus on source measures and nature recovery. That's the line we've chosen here. The motion is actually asking for everything to be put on hold until we have taken more steps. We also have a responsibility with regard to social and economic developments, so I advise against this motion. Then there is the Old-Hand motion in part No. 33, on deposition values. We are working on it, and that is important, to improve the state of conservation of nature. For some areas, undermining the critical deposition values is incredibly difficult due to the extensive depositions from abroad. I don't have a button abroad that I can press. When I look at the province of Zeeland: it actually gets net imports of nitrogen from Flanders. That would mean that it would be completely locked if we adopted this motion. I don't think that's the right thing to do, so I'm going to advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u587	Can I ask the Minister, if we take out the consideration of relocation from abroad, which she cannot do anything about, and if we are talking about the Natura 2000 areas where that does not happen, whether she is prepared to set a deadline so that we know what we are sending, how quickly that will go and when the critical deposition values in those areas will be undermined?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u588	In almost every area there is also deposition from abroad. In one province that really is a net deposition. In the other it is not a net deposition, but per nature reserve it may be different. It's not just cutting with scissors. We know we have to lower the deposition. We know what we have to do. They're working on it. In one area, it's easier than in the other. In some areas it is even very complicated because of the foreign deposition. In this way, the motion is too generic and I also put certain parts completely stuck, while we really need to look at area-specific what we're going to do there, so I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u589	Finally, Mrs Ouwehand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u590	Yeah, finally. Now it's getting very vague. I offer space to acknowledge that it may not be feasible for all areas, given the deposition from abroad. However, the analysis of nature conservation lawyers is that 90% of Natura 2000 sites should be able to do so. I think the Minister is taking a lot of space while I say here 'let's see what we really can't do about it'. But within that given: what is the concrete goal, what is the deadline? That's not so unreasonable, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u591	No, but I am also thinking, for example, of an area with a part of Dutch deposition. I am looking, for example, at De Peel or at areas that are at the German border. From the Ruhr area there is also a lot of our direction. If we were to reduce our deposition altogether, there would still be a few things to come from. Then I find it really too general to formulate this motion in this way, and then I just have to dissuade her. Then take completely the latent space within the permits. I think that there has already been a little substantive debate on the motion for a resolution on item No. 34. That is a real violation of property rights. So it is also legally very complicated once more. I advise against this motion. The 200 million for Natura 2000 and peat meadows are only used for the cessation of farms. That is precisely what the Cabinet has made clear in the Climate Agreement. Those appointments are on the table. I'm not gonna change that again. I also think that very wise agreements have been made in this area, so I would advise against the motion on item No. 35. The motion in part No. 36: Stop all subsidies for low-emission housing systems and other emission reducing techniques and use them for effective source measures. It is suggested here that low-emission stables could not be effective source measures. That is not my position, and that is why I advise against this motion. Technological innovations only allow if they are linked to intensification. The emission reduction at source contributes to a better stable climate for humans and animals and to a better living environment. These resource-oriented measures will achieve part of the necessary emission reduction. That's what we talked about this evening. So I'm deceiving the motion in part no. 37. The wood-fired biomass plants. This really is a debate that I think has already been held and is still being held with my colleague from EZK. I also think that this motion should be discussed there. We also have Parisian goals to achieve. Mrs Ouwehand knows that, too. She thinks it's important, too. I am not going to go through this budgetary procedure because of the agreements made by my colleague elsewhere. Otherwise I would have this discussion with Mr Wiebes. That is why I advise against the motion in part No. 38. Mrs Ouwehand can also hold her and discuss with EZK's colleague. The same applies to the motion in part No. 39: no subsidies for manure fermenters. This is also part of the SDE+ scheme, for example, which is also covered by Mr Wiebes. If Mrs Ouwehand wishes to have this discussion, I would advise her to do so there. Otherwise, I'm gonna dissuade this motion. Otherwise, she would have to hold this motion and discuss it there. Set the spray-free zones. I have just sent a letter explaining exactly what I am and what I am not doing there, why I can and cannot do certain things and what steps we are going to take. On that basis, I advise against the motion in part No. 40. Vote against the extension of Mancozeb. I always base my vote on the opinions of EFSA and Ctgb when it comes to plant protection. I do not yet have the opinions of these two bodies, but I will also inform the Chamber about this for the next SCOPAFF meeting, as I always do. There is therefore no basis for this request in the motion on item No. 41 and then I'm gonna tip her off. If Mrs Ouwehand still wants to wait until I have the information, she can still hold the motion, but I will give the opinion when I have the EFSA and Ctgb opinions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u592	Mr President, with a view to the planning of the Chamber, I would like to say the following. The SCoPAFF meeting is on 21 and 22 October. The Chamber will vote next Tuesday. Does the Minister expect to be able to inform the Chamber before Tuesday's votes?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u593	When I get the advice in, I'm gonna push it right through. I always do. I'll see what I can do to make sure it's on time. And otherwise...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u594	Otherwise, I'll just look at the chairman, because we'll have to vote again later in the week. But then I'll hold that motion until we get the Minister's information in. I hope that will work before we have the last Chamber day on Thursday.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u595	At the request of Mrs Ouwehand, I propose her motion (35300-XIV, No. 41). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u596	We'll do our best.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u597	Thank you for that. I would also like to say that I have tabled motions on items Nos. 38 and 39 for now. And I will continue some of the motions on next week's nitrogen debate until after that debate, in the direction of my fellow Members. I'll pass those piece numbers on to the Registry as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u598	At the request of Mrs Ouwehand, I propose her motions (35300-XIV, Nos. 38 and 39). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u599	We'd like to hear those other songs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u600	Then the motion to part No. Mr Wassenberg (S). - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. In the case of checks where an infringement has been detected, fishermen have also followed up. It appeared, even after re-checking, that the rules were being complied with. If you improve your life, you can still do it here in the Netherlands. That also seems to me to be a very healthy starting point. At a time when there is genuinely continuous infringement in a particular case, it is also possible to withdraw a licence in the extreme. However, this is a serious instrument, and it must be possible to maintain it legally. I have also said that I am in favour of improving enforcement at European level. We'll talk about that there, too. So I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 43 The government requests that the North Sea coastal zone and the Vlakte van de Raan be completely closed for inshore fishing. That's a hell of a motion. There's no need to shut down the entire coastal zone now either. By the way, you would also make the fishermen who are doing well, I say just for a moment, suffer from those who are doing badly. I think that's quite a violent measure if you've always kept to the rules of the law your whole life. So I advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u601	The second observation states that "where sustainability is not promoted throughout the site, it may be appropriate to close the Natura 2000 sites'. The point is, and this is also stated in the operative part, which the motion calls for closure, if sustainable fishing cannot be guaranteed without fraud. I think the Minister should agree with me in principle.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u602	But the next observation is: 'coastal fishermen are massively cheating with engine power'. You know what? In this way, coastal fishermen who simply have a good attitude and who always follow the rules are directly affected by this. I don't think that's the idea. I said we're working on the black box. We are in the process of doing so, precisely in order to be able to give concrete form to enforcement. I advise against this motion. Then the motion to part No. 44. We have already discussed the content of the budget for CCS for forests quite extensively. We also have something like the Paris Agreement. I advise against this motion. Then the muskrat. The motion in part No. 45 calls on the government to put an end to the extermination of the muskrat. I have just said what the waterboard policy is and how they deal with it. The waterboards have also done research on the different methods of control, I read here. We must also simply ensure water safety. I therefore advise against this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u603	Just a few more moments about the investigation. I also refer to Swedish research. There they have done real research for a long period, namely a period of eight years and even longer. In addition, you see that you get a big increase first, and then you see that the number of animals, without remote control, is really falling. In the following years, the number remains at a very stable level. In the Netherlands, measurements have not been made that long. So they saw an increase here for a while, and then it was decided to start fighting anyway. But if you'd let that go all the way, you'd have noticed that the number is really falling, by natural enemies and by less reproduction. Then it remains at a stable level. That's what I meant when I said you should want to do long-term research.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u604	The water boards are responsible for water safety. I can very well imagine that they cannot first sit down and see what happens in practice if they are not sure if those numbers of rats are decreasing. Of course, they do not want water safety issues to be compromised. Perhaps it is also a debate you should have with Mr van IenW, because this is also about water safety, but I understand that there is a balance here between the importance of animal-friendly control on the one hand and water safety on the other.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u605	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u606	It is, of course, not only the importance of animal-friendly control. You can also see if the number of animals stabilizes at a low level if you just do nothing. I would like to see an area look at what happens if you do not fight those animals, because in Sweden the experiences are positive.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u607	I believe that the knowledge and skill of those who have the most understanding of this should be guiding in this. In the field of water safety, the waterboards know what to do. I advise against this motion. The same applies to the motion in part No. 46.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u608	Mr. Graus, the motion to part No. 45 wasn't really your motion, was it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u609	No, but it turns out my rodentorium would come in handy here. Then it would turn out to be a very wrong method. Mr. Wassenberg, he's also a biologist, so he's the most relevant expert here. That's why we really need people who know rodents.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u610	The Minister gave her judgment on both motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u611	In the motion in part No. 46 the government is asked to release money to allow the police to control and enforce in the off-site area. That's not my jurisdiction. This motion must be submitted to JenV's colleague. That's why I'm telling her off. The Bishop's motion in part No. 47 is about a transition fund and the possibility of an increase in the flight tax for the purpose of the transformation. You can imagine that I always get extremely excited when people think about how I can pump up my budget, but we do have a strict finance minister, who always says: think of the separation of income and expenditure. Then he's going to be very difficult about that; I get that too, because that's his role. I think I would make my colleagues very sad if I gave this motion judgment Chamber, so I should advise her not to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u612	Mr Bishop apologizes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u613	Yeah, he apologized to me, too. Then the motion to part No. 48. This is a rather extensive motion asking for multi-annual agreements to be made with sector and chain parties on a number of specific issues that are mentioned. I am already doing part of it and I think we should look at part of it a little bit more on the basis of this motion. One of these themes is structural financial support for sustainability. That is why it says: 'the form is further developed'. I don't have any extra money all of a sudden, but I can look at the money I have and that I'm already committed to sustainability. If I take this circumstance into account, which is that I cannot simply commit additional resources, I could give this motion a Chamber judgment. Then the motion to part No. Forty-nine by Mr Baudet. Unfortunately, Mr Baudet has already gone home. Otherwise, I would have liked to congratulate him on his speech. I am actually very sorry, as I say through the chairman to Mr Baudet, that he was not present at the demonstration of the farmers on the Malieveld and that he did not take this speech for those farmers. I think they would have listened breathlessly if he had rejected that argument. Then perhaps they would have had a good conversation with each other about nature, agriculture and how you could look at that. The next time there is a demonstration, I would like to invite Mr Baudet to have this conversation with the farmers too: go tell that story there. I can't wait to see how they react. In the motion in part No. 49 is asked to examine how to extend the Birds and Habitats Directives as far as possible. I have already indicated what the frameworks are, how they can be dealt with, how there are no opportunities to do so and how it is important to protect nature. Considering his own argument. So I advise against this motion. Mr Baudet asked in the motion for a resolution for item No. 50 to align the nitrogen threshold value with that of Germany. I have already said that the judge has just declared that there must be more natural recovery. This is at a high threshold without any source measures. So I advise against this motion. In the motion for a resolution, Mr Baudet asks for item No. 51 to ask the Council of State for information on a German-based nitrogen approach. So when I look at the previous motion, he asks for information on the introduction of a threshold. And that's exactly what I'm doing. That is exactly the kind of information I asked the Council of State. So, basically, this motion is superfluous. That's how I dissuade the motion. The motion in part No. 52 calls on the government to make the RIVM model public and calls for an independent review of the RIVM model on reliability. The RIVM model is public. People who have questions about this can also ask questions about it. And we have also said that we will expand the RIVM measurement network, which will also make the model more sophisticated. That's what we do with externals. So I advise against this motion. The motion in part No. 53 is a very nice motion. It is actually a motion that I can simply leave to the Court's judgment. Mr Baudet asked the cabinet to work for the position of Dutch fishermen in the North Sea in a European context, even after the Brexit. That's exactly the argument I made. He asked me for an alleyway to the British. It is here that we are being asked to make our voice heard at European level. That's actually what we're doing. Technically, I could say that this motion is superfluous. But I actually think it is too good to convince Mr Baudet that it is precisely in a European context that fishing is the way forward when it comes to how to deal with the Brexit. So I'm just gonna give the motion judgment room. It's kind of against my own rules, but I like it too much to let go. It's not the first time. I hear Mr Futselaar is grumbling. Mr. Chairman. Then the final motion. We've talked a lot about that, too. I would advise against this motion in part No. 54. Then I have, last but not least, another amendment. That is Mr Futselaar's amendment. He wants to reserve money on the budget to improve the robustness of the Natura 2000 site. He's making 200 million available for that. We are now working on an area-oriented approach. Together with the provinces, we take stock of the most effective measures to restore nature and make developments possible again. We are also going to look at the resources and the possibilities for doing so. We have already indicated in the letter that if more money is to be made available, if necessary, we are prepared to do so. But this amendment is already ahead of us. That is why I do not recommend the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u614	The Minister states "if necessary." I think the letter simply says: an acceleration is needed; we are going to invest in direct nature recovery. If you do that to speed things up, I'm assuming you're doing more than you already are. Because otherwise, logically, there will be no acceleration. So there's gonna have to be extra money. I do not see any reason why I should not be free to do so now and to wait for an autumn note and decision-making. And then maybe we can start somewhere in January.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u615	It is now being mapped out what the accelerations that can be carried out and how much money is needed for this. Then as a cabinet, we're gonna see how we're gonna take care of that. I make that commitment to Mr Futselaar. That's what the letter says, but I'm not going to anticipate it now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u616	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u617	I am not going to repeat the debate I have had before, but we all know what is needed in nature reserves. It's all known and it's all in plans, so it shouldn't be necessary to figure it out anymore.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u618	About the information the minister is about to send on one of my motions. I just noticed that there are already votes scheduled for Wednesday anyway. Can I use you, Mr. Chairman, to give the Minister a little more space? That letter must be there by Wednesday, so that we can vote on that motion on Wednesday, which I shall then hold. It's about the mold-fighting mancozeb.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u619	I don't know what number it is anymore, but I know about the debate on the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u620	I know what it's about. I have promised and I keep repeating it: as soon as I have the information, the Chamber will have it. I do depend on when I get that information. That is my only reservation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u621	Yeah, that's why. I thought if we choose Wednesday now, we'll have a little more room anyway. That's nice for the Minister, too. But then the President must agree that I should put that motion on the voting list on Wednesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u622	I can't formally approve of that. We'll have to do that with the scheme. Right now, you've held the motion. We are going to vote on the motions that have been tabled today on Tuesday anyway. We have a later vote that week, because we are in the week before the autumn recess. Whether that is Wednesday or Thursday depends on your request in response to the letter the Minister is going to send.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u623	I thought I'd create some space for the minister, but it's got to work sometime next week.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u624	Yes. The Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u625	Once again, when I have it, I'll send it to the Chamber, but I'll depend on it for a while. Then you're in charge of your own planning. Mr. Chairman. This was the third budget debate we had with each other. I think it is a budget debate where we now feel the most that it is not easy. This also has to do with the circumstances and sometimes with uncertainty. I can make all the speeches here, but the only thing I really wish us, and perhaps myself in particular, is wisdom in the debate and the blessing on our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u626	Thank you for your input. I would also like to thank the Members of Parliament and the support.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-10-10-tweedekamer-16.u627	We are going to vote on the motions tabled on Tuesday 15 October. We will vote on the amendment and the bill in December, with all the other budgets.
