ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u1	This is today the seventh subject for which the Minister for the Interior is in plenary. Then she had five VAOs, one majority debate and a 30-member debate. I think she's received a total of 47 motions today. The 50th motion has to be done, but it doesn't have to be. The 30-member debate is about investors buying up houses. I would like to agree with the Members of Parliament that only two interruptions are allowed, a question and a follow-up question. I give the floor to Mrs Beckerman on behalf of the SP Group.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u2	Mr. Chairman. It is a housing crisis and part of that housing crisis is caused by private investors in the housing market. Or rather: attackers of our people's housing. Because people who earn just too much for social rent or start-ups who want to buy a house are seriously disadvantaged by these investors. These private investors buy rental and merchant houses and then rent them for socially high rental prices. And that beating has to stop. When does the cabinet see that buying up houses drives up the purchase and rental prices? When is the cabinet going to intervene? Starters are overbidden over and over again and again. Tenants pay themselves blue, making saving for a house increasingly difficult. A year ago my party therefore stated: houses are to live in and not for investors to become treasured. Does the Minister agree with me now? The phenomenon is not new and was initially downplayed by VVD and PvdA ministers. All Cabinets-Rutte are even doing their best to get even more investors to buy our houses. That's why the SP had independent research conducted last year by the University of Amsterdam and the University of Leuven, with shocking results. Between 2002 and 2016, the purchase of houses by private individuals to rent out expensively increased by 75%. In Amsterdam, Rotterdam, The Hague, Groningen and Maastricht, the small houses under 50 m are especially popular and almost 30% of them are bought by investors. So it's time for action.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u3	You're okay with Mr. Ronnes interrupting?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u4	Yeah, sure.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u5	To a large extent, I agree with Mrs Beckerman. But doesn't she think it's typical that, for example, in a city like Amsterdam, where her party has been swaying for many years, so few measures have been taken against those investors but also against the Airbnb developments? This has created the pressure on the housing market.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u6	Well, now I'm kind of clapping my ears. This afternoon you were there.We had a meeting with the alderman of Amsterdam. He's putting everything on top of everything. Construction records are down. We were just discussing the fact that too little is being built. Amsterdam kills construction records and makes every effort to intervene, but it needs the Minister to intervene hard. Amsterdam wants that, has asked us many times and tonight we have the opportunity to do so. I hope I can find you by my side, because it's really absurd that people are being pushed out of town like this, and that right now there are houses to be treasured instead of just living in.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u7	We might be able to find each other on a number of parts. I would just like to point out that Amsterdam, for example, is now starting with measures to build affordable housing. Why hasn't it been done for years? That could have happened a long time ago with the current legislation, and that did not happen in Amsterdam.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u8	It's actually kind of funny. Less than five minutes ago, a debate was completed in which your coalition colleague Amsterdam was again calling itself crazy left-wing and so incredibly crazy. And what exactly was his criticism? Those investors in the housing market, who are pushing up prices, are being banned. And now someone else from the same coalition is coming to say: that crazy-left city is doing far too little to ward off investors. Yeah, what is it now, coalition?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u9	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u10	Mr. Chairman. These municipalities are calling for help and it is high time for action. Is the Minister finally prepared to curb investors and stop bringing investors from abroad to our country to buy houses? I would like to make three proposals with which I would like to help the cabinet. What does the Minister say about a duty of self-inhabitation? When you buy a house, you or your family have to live there. This is a good measure, not only for new homes, but also for existing ones, particularly in areas where housing needs are high. I say in the direction of Mr Ronnes: municipalities cannot now, at the moment, regulate this for existing homes. So I hope to find not only the Minister, but also Mr Ronnes by my side. My second proposal is that the transfer tax should be increased for investors. I am truly pleased that I have heard several parties about this in the last few days. Let's work together to ensure that starters or streamers aren't caught, but that there's a real estate tax. Increase transfer tax from the third house to 6%. Is that what the Minister's gonna do? The voters of all coalition parties, including those of the VVD, can be seen from One-Today polls. The third proposal is to protect people with an average income and to give them more rights. Is the Minister prepared to extend the rental points system to rent up to €1000? That is a good start to tackle injustice in the free sector. It is unfair that in the free sector there is no maximum rent. Mr President, I have another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u11	Yes, but you have to finish, because you are over your speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u12	Indeed, I could go on with good measures that we can take. Our popular housing, which we should be proud of and which we should protect, is not for types like pawnshops and house milkers. It's for 8 million households.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u13	Of course, Mrs Beckerman's proposal to increase transfer tax is not new. We've talked about it before. I believe that Mr Nijboer was very much in favour of this. My question was then and is actually still whether we are not at risk if we are going to do this. I do not feel so sorry for those investors and whether it will ultimately help. Isn't it going to make sure that the tenant eventually pays a little more rent, which means that the extra transfer tax that the investor has lost is so earned back?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u14	Nor do I think that we should be the only ones to take this measure. I requested this debate a year ago, just to come up with a package. I was just making several suggestions. I am very much in favour of this measure. We see that there is currently little interest to be obtained on savings, that this results little, that people are therefore going to invest and that it is a good profit object. We should actually stop a part of that group from investing, precisely because the interest of start-ups who want to buy now is greater than that of people who only buy a house to earn from it. I think raising the transfer tax for such a third house can help you get in the way sooner as a young starter, because it is really unfair competition. You just don't get in the way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u15	This unfair competition, of course, consists of a number of aspects, not just transfer taxes. The danger I see in that is that the transfer tax is once. Would it, for example, ensure that the investment value is not so exorbitantly high by, for example, ensuring that the rents are not exorbitantly high not be a much more fundamental approach than to temper that one-off slightly higher price, so to speak?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u16	In fact, I hear mainly support for my proposals, because the third proposal I made, I have done three and I would like to do a lot more, but because of the time it was necessary to include the rents up to €1,000 in the points system. Because it's really bizarre what rents are currently being requested in that free sector. Those are really towering rents and the tenants are not protected. So if we do en-and-and-do the self-inhabitation obligation, the higher transfer tax and the tenant protection, I think we have a very nice package. I hope you will support the motions I would like to put forward in second place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u17	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Nijboer on behalf of the Labour Party.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u18	Mr. Chairman. Investors are taking over our cities more and more. This is not only a problem in Amsterdam, but also in Enschede and in Maastricht, where one in five houses that are now being sold will come into the hands of investors, and for example in Cadzand in Zeeland, in coastal towns where more and more investors buy houses and the local population, people born and raised there, can hardly afford to get a house. That's a really big problem. We were just talking about how the housing market works and how it goes very, very boom-bust, with bubbles. Five years ago, I was standing here, and then 1 million people had their homes underwater. Then you were really happy if there was a buyer. So now those investors are taking over the cities and you have to do something about that as a cabinet. You shouldn't let that happen. I think that a whole series of measures is needed to ensure that start-ups continue to get started, which are now really oppressed by those investors and that rents remain affordable. Look at what proportion of their income people have lost to rent and living expenses. They can no longer be paid for more and more people and those investors have only one interest: as high as possible rent questions. There is therefore a real need to intervene in these two areas. Well, how can you do that? It's tax-free. Buying people with money because the money in the bank doesn't pay off, real estate and asking sky high rents. There's the transfer tax. I have tabled an amendment to the Tax Plan to increase it for investors to 10% for the third house and more and to reduce it for start-ups to 0%. The Christian Union has also proposed this week. That's a hell of a proposal. I'd say take over. Unfortunately, yesterday we received another letter from the Secretary of State for Finance that he does not want to do so. That's a bad thing, because that would help. Two is taxing rent income fairly. If you look at what it's worth in terms of income if you just have a house and ask for a towering rent, I don't think it's weird that the cities are being taken over. So just charge it neatly. Is the cabinet prepared to do so? It'll be a bit technical and complicated, but do something about it. Three of them have just been referred to by Mrs Van Eijs of D66 to make sure that these rentals are not so towering. Then you also discourage investors from buying that trade. Continue that point system or maximmer that rent above €720. Because between €720 and €1,200 to €1,300 is very little and many people simply can't afford it. And help the starters, too. You can do that with the transfer tax to zero, but also in a different way. We have a fixed amount of homes. They don't build that fast. Everyone yells "build, build," but it doesn't make any sense. So that fixed amount of housing is being distributed. If you discourage those investors and help those start-ups, you'll see that people can live there faster. Finally, the PvdA is also in favour of self-inhabitation. Houses are for living, not for investing. In short, it really takes a lot to turn the tide and I think that the cabinet is doing much and far too little about it. That's a big problem. Minister, move!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u19	Thank you. I now give the floor to the Courhuis on behalf of the VVD.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u20	Mr. Chairman. A good and affordable house is important to everyone, whether you rent or buy. Unfortunately, it is becoming increasingly expensive to rent a house and it is becoming increasingly expensive to buy a house. The reasons for this are clear: there is a shortage of middle rental homes and there is a shortage of residential properties. These deficits need to be addressed by building more houses, by selling overpriced social housing and by helping tenants and buyers. So we make sure that living remains affordable. Mr. Chairman. Making living affordable starts with more offer. That means building, building, building! 1 million new houses over the next 15 years: that's good for everyone. This way we create more supply and lower prices. We're not gonna be able to build on our own. Corporations have built far too expensive social housing in recent years. We need to sell these and rent them out as middle-rent properties. For example, we create more offers of middle rental homes, lower middle rental prices and investors do not have to compete with starters for existing properties. With that money, we can often rebuild twice, sometimes three times as many cheap social rental homes. That's better for middle tenants, starters and social tenants. We also want to protect tenants. Left-wing parties want, perhaps with the best of intentions, to increase the burden on investors. But the consequences are clear: investors will pass this on to tenants, creating higher rental prices. Or investors will rent less for this, creating less rental offers and still higher rental prices. The sympathetic proposals are therefore nothing more or less than a tenant's fee. Before we proceed to a heavy measure as a tenant's fee, I would like to begin with the facts on the Minister's table. What is the percentage of starter, builder and investor? Is the starter gonna turn it off against the streamer or against the investor? And who is this investor: a pension fund or an entrepreneur who rents two or three houses as a pension provision? Let's not deal with tenants, but let's help buyers! Because the real problem is that the monthly income standards for buyers who have to handle banks are made tighter than the monthly income standards for tenants who use investors. I see that a buyer is not allowed to pay a mortgage, but rent costs of, for example, €800 per month. I understand that a buyer has more monthly burdens than a tenant, but the gap is sometimes very large. How does the Minister view this? Is the Minister prepared to have the Nibud conduct a wide-ranging investigation into this? The Minister has already looked at how a study loan weighs in the monthly charges of a mortgage. The Minister writes that the weighting factor is only a few tenths of one percent per month. However, if I look at the whole duration, the overall weighting may be close to 200%. A starter with a student loan of €30,000, for example, can receive a deduction on his mortgage of almost €60,000. This while we're just trying to help a starter. Is the Minister prepared to reduce the overall weighting to below 100%? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u21	We're back in the wonderful world of Daniel Koerhuis. In the wonderful world of Daniel Koerhuis, investors are welcome, but he is also concerned about high rents. We can't do anything about that, because that would increase the rents even further. The wonderful world of Daniel Koerhuis! Mr. Koerhuis, if you're worried about those exorbitant rentals that are currently being requested and those people really can't afford to pay... 30% of the middle incomes can't pay at all...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u22	A technical point. It also sounds so nicely technical: WOZ from the points system and draw points system through. This means nothing more than expanding the social rental sector. I think as a country, we have too many social housing units as a percentage. It will only become more, while we need more middle-rent homes for middle-incomes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u23	Again, the wonderful world of Daniel Koerhuis. It's not like if you say building, building, building and then doing nothing about it, there's gonna be more houses. It's also not that if you use the word "middle-rent" enough, it's suddenly affordable. Those houses are priceless. What are you going to do about it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u24	Words are being used here, while I think we're... In the last general discussion I have already said it: in the first economic class you learn that with more offer you get lower prices. So what we need to lower those middle rental prices is more offer of middle rentals. That's not a wonderful world. That's the real world.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u25	I have the impression that Mr Koerhuis misread his economics book. He advocated lower charges for investors and higher mortgages for people. Those standards have to go down, while all economists and whoever you ask say: "The Netherlands has a high mortgage debt. Look out! You have a fixed amount of homes in the country. That doesn't change very much, so don't do that." I can't believe the VVD doesn't stand up for starters. You have always been the party for homeowners, but they are at risk, because those investors take over and the starters can't afford it anymore. Why don't I hear about that? Is your only answer to that: mortgage standards down, higher mortgages? You're not really helping the starters with that, are you? Then you'll charge them with a higher debt, won't you?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u26	The VVD is like no other behind the buyer and that is exactly what we are talking about here. I have indicated that the real problem is that we have made the monthly income standards for buyers who have to handle banks tighter than monthly income standards for tenants who apply investors. That's the real problem. I asked the Minister to look into that. An important part of this is, in my view, how we weigh the study loan. I also asked the Minister to look into this, precisely to help the starter, because we share these concerns. We only have other solutions. And when I open my economics book, it really says there: if you get more housing offers, you get lower prices. I don't know how I read that upside down.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u27	The latter is true. It's just, of course, that offer doesn't go far. With the 75,000 apartments a year on that lot what do we have? Of course, 7 million homes in this country are not gonna help, so that's not gonna solve it. That means you have to distribute the scarce homes out there fairly. If investors buy them up who ask for very high rents, instead of starters who can just pay it nicely with a low-interest mortgage, then you're actually pushing the population out of the market. I don't understand why the VVD would stand up for that. If you look at who lives in those homes, what's fair and what you can do about them as a government, then you could do something about it, right? I really don't get it. That you don't care about the tenants is well known, but you don't even stand up for the starters!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u28	I am more positive about the new production. We just filed a coalition motion to add 15,000 flex houses per year to the ambition of 75,000 permanent homes of the cabinet. Those are important blows. Above all, we need to give room for that. It's gonna take money. That's what we need investors for. Those apartments aren't free.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u29	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u30	Well, thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u31	I now turn to Mr Smeulders on behalf of GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A roof above your head is a first need for life, but it is unfortunately not self-evident for more and more people. The people are at the mercy of the totally overstretched housing market. Then why is that? So what's the problem? Actually, it's in that word "dwelling market." We've moved in far too much to see as a market. Previously, this Chamber spoke with respect about "people's housing." In the eyes of GroenLinks, it is really time for the government to take up its responsibility again, for us to talk about housing again, and for us to choose the interests of the inhabitants, of the citizens of the Netherlands and not of speculators. Speculants are actually the only laughers in the current, totally overstretched housing market, because they make money from that at the expense of our inhabitants. That is why I have today submitted an own-initiative paper for the purpose and also as a title for market forces in the rental sector, because that is really very much needed. One of the proposals that we are putting forward here is not to extend the housing valuation system to €1,000, as is currently proposed, but to use the entire housing valuation system to 250 points. This means that we are going to regulate up to €1,300 homes, which is really going to yield hundreds of euros a month rent advantage for people. We really think that's necessary. 90% of the rental market will then be regulated. The time is right for that. At times when politics chooses to buy shares of Air France-KLM because of its national interest, in times when the House of Representatives stands to applaud from left to right when one commercial post company, PostNL, takes over the other commercial post company, Sandd, to put some rest on the postal market in that way, and in times when the Minister for Health indicates that the tenders in the care and market operation have gone through a bit, it is also time for the Minister for Housing to say: the housing market has gone through, we must intervene. My question to the Minister is therefore very simple. Which side do you choose, Minister? Do you side with the inhabitants of the Netherlands or the speculators?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u33	Thank you, Mr. Smeulders. I now give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I heard Mieke's story about her search for a first buying apartment. It made her completely despondent. Over and over again, she has been on the road for the past few months to visit a house, but she doesn't intervene. The last time, the real estate agent said it was fair: the apartment has already been sold and you already recommend it to an investor. Mr. Chairman. It may also be your experience, but I hear these stories weekly. And don't get me wrong: I don't want to turn investors away today as crooks. But it is clear that something is going badly on our urban housing markets. Homes there are more and more profit factories. We all know that the housing market is a flawed market. Houses are scarce and land is already scarce. In addition, the many cheap money from investors looking for returns is added. To make a long story short: the consequences of this are seen daily in cities such as Amsterdam, The Hague, Groningen, Leiden and so on. Here in The Hague, for example, in 2017 we discussed more than one in five transactions. Actually, the problem is even bigger, because the starter and the private investor shop in the same segment. The starter, who has to arrange a mortgage with great difficulty, is of course not a party for the investor who smilingly takes the flaps out of his or her back pocket. Mr. Chairman. My colleague Bruins has already addressed this in detail during the General Financial Reviews and has also provided various policy options, for example with regard to the transfer tax and the treatment of landlords as entrepreneurs, in order to tax their rental income more effectively. He also called for more possibilities with regard to the obligation to self-inhabit and the permit to rent. The motion by my colleagues Bruins and Slootweg on this issue has been widely adopted. However, the implementation of the Christian Union is considered to be too weak. It's actually just a descriptive letter. Okay, the minister has ordered some inquiries. That's always good, but I expect more from this minister. I expect her to pull everything out of the closet to increase the chances for starters in the housing market. My group expects her to offer more legal opportunities to municipalities to work with the obligation to self-inhabit, including in the existing buying stock, where it is not possible to do so now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u35	A few moments ago, it was also about the obligation to self-inhabit. Mrs Dik-Faber talks about more legal possibilities. Now we've got it, that's what I'm gonna call it, Groningen model. That's what I usually call it, because then it's clear what it's about. There's a rental permit in there. That's actually some kind of reverse habitation obligation. Does Mrs Dik-Faber agree with me?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u36	I think that's a very good model too. That's actually exactly the next sentence I wanted to say. In that I wanted to refer to the Groningen model.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u37	Mrs. Van Eijs, perhaps you could wait a moment? Mrs. Dik-Faber, please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u38	My group expects the Minister to remove any legal obstacles to the Groningen rental permit, so that other municipalities dare to apply it. But my group expects the Minister first of all that she no longer sees buy-to-let as a solution to the problem of too little middle-term rent, but more and more as a problem for the starter in the cities, not to mention viability issues. Middle-term rents are needed, but we need to create them mainly by adding middle-term rentals. Buy-to-let or reducing the social rental sector are cynical means for this, which we must avoid as much as possible, of course with the obvious exceptions to this rule. I would like a good response from the Minister on these points. Mr. Chairman. I'm rounding up. I want people like Mieke or someone else from a bigger city to tell me the next time they call me or hang on to me, "I did it! After seven unsuccessful attempts I was able to make an offer at the eighth visit, quietly arrange my financing and buy the apartment. And you know what was so amazing? There were no more investors competing with me. I heard from the realtor that they are now putting their money into the construction of new middle-end rentals." That would be a very nice outcome to this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u39	I actually wanted to congratulate Mrs Dik-Faber on a nice speech, and especially on the fact that she called selling social rent and more buy-to-let a cynical solution. That was a fine sneak to your coalition colleague, Mr Koerhuis, who was equally passionate about it. I hear support for the proposals I have made for self-inhabitation and transfer tax. Would you like to go one step further and also support my third proposal, the proposal to reduce rents in the free sector by extending the points system?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u40	I would very much like us to be able to steer more in the middle expensive rental segment. I don't know if this is the answer. I would also like to hear the Minister's response as to whether she thinks this is the solution. I can also imagine that we have also written this in our memo that we are giving municipalities more legal instruments in their hands that they do not now have. That could also be a possible solution route. In fact, I would also like to ask the Minister, through Mrs Beckerman, how we can give municipalities more control over this. Because I can see that point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u41	Very briefly, because it's my last, I think.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u42	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u43	I really like this. It's not what I'd like, but I'm finally seeing some movement, including in the coalition, to solve these problems. I hope the other coalition parties too... Oh, there's Mr. Koerhuis.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u44	Yes, you challenged him.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u45	I hope that the other coalition parties also have ears for this, because the problems are far too great. That housing crisis needs to be dealt with now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u46	Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union is talking about increasing the transfer tax for investors. I have some questions about that, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u47	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u48	I asked about the Minister's figures: who are these investors in practice? I think that in practice these are very often pension funds of ordinary people in the country. If that is the case, does Mrs Dik-Faber agree with me that we should be careful when taxing people's pensions more heavily? In addition, we are talking about commercial landlords. A burden increase, as proposed by Mrs Dik-Faber, will increase the number of middle hires.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u49	And the question is? You need a very long run, but you really need to ask a question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u50	On the one hand, it is a burden increase for middle tenants. On the other hand, at our request, the cabinet is working out the emergency button with which we are going to dampen the middle rental prices.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u51	And the question is, Mr. Koerhuis?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u52	Does Mrs Dik-Faber not agree that we are going to put so much pressure on the middle-rent industry and that he will eventually be wiped out if we...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u53	Mrs. Dik-Faber. I'm going to interrupt you, Mr. Koerhuis, because interruptions must be really short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u54	I am not at all afraid that we will get stuck in the middle-rent industry; quite the contrary. I think it's very important for middle rent to be available. We have instruments for that. We also move together to make sure that more middle rentals are built. There will be a legislative proposal on the simplification of the so-called market test. If the market doesn't pick it up, housing corporations can board. I think that is all very good proposals. When it comes to transfer taxes and private investors, I think it is almost impossible to differentiate in them for whom it should apply and for whom it is not. I can imagine that it is also a very good idea for pension funds to invest in the sustainability of housing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u55	The question was what Mrs Dik-Faber of the Christian Union thinks of increasing the burden on people's pensions at home.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u56	What I see happening now is that the living expenses are getting crazyjorum high and cops and nurses and their families have no place in town anymore. The reason for this is that there are investors who are stealing those homes, that there are investors who are pushing up house prices and that there are rents that are too high for the space for which they apply. That's the problem I'm addressing here.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u57	Then I will go to Mr Nijboer for his final interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u58	I give it to Mrs Dik-Faber to achieve something in the area of living with such a coalition partner. I'd like to try anyway. The cabinet responded to your plan yesterday. In response to my parliamentary questions, Secretary of State Snel said: we are simply throwing the transfer tax proposals in the trash, we are not doing anything about that. How does the Christian Union feel about that now? The plan went through the shredder, while it was so good!
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u59	Our plans are, of course, very good. Unfortunately, I have not yet read the letter to which Mr Nijboer refers. Tonight, there have been many other things that have been reviewed: something with climate agreement and so on. So I haven't read the letter yet, but I did ask the Minister my questions. I also have a motion for a resolution before us if we do not get a good answer. I am therefore prepared to come back to that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u60	It's not in the coalition agreement and the VVD is against it. I was able to derive that from Mr Koerhuis' contribution. That surprised me, that's obvious. But the question is, of course, whether you are prepared to push through a little. I tabled this proposal to the Tax Plan, by amendment. That's when the coalition voted against it. I and others, including Mr Smeulders and Mrs Beckerman, are of course trying to achieve this. Can we count on you? Can we trust the Christian Union to support that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u61	As I indicated, I have a motion ready here. It is customary for us to have the debate first in this Chamber, so I would very much like to refer to the second term. Then we will see if I can satisfy Mr Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u62	We'll see. It is not the first time we have had this debate; we have been doing it for over a year.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u63	No, but it is true that the debate is held first and then the motions come. Mr Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u64	I would like to begin by congratulating Mrs Dik-Faber and the Christian Union on the plan presented yesterday. I also think it's really cool that you just do that as a coalition party. One of the points in that plan is about the landlord tax. You state in the plan that the landlord tax is removed from the next cabinet period. I understand that it is very difficult to do something about it now, given what is in the coalition agreement. Do you agree with me that it is a bit crazy that a landlord's tax on social housing should be paid and private free-sector housing, which speculators make money from, isn't it? Isn't that a little crazy?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u65	I understand the question that is being put here very well. At the same time, there are simply agreements on the basis of the coalition agreement. That was also referred to for a while. What my group would like most, she has written in her election programme: to remove the landlord's tax in exchange for performance agreements. Housing corporations can then invest in the sustainability of their homes. That is not in the coalition agreement, but it is what we very much want. At the same time, our signature is under the coalition agreement. I'll stick to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u66	I understand your signature is under the coalition agreement. I also understand that the proceeds of the landlord's tax should remain the same. The question I would like to ask you is whether you are prepared to consider extending the landlord's tax to speculators who make money in the free sector. Then it can be reduced for housing corporations, so that these additional housing can be built, and the revenues for the Minister of Finance remain the same.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u67	Once again, I can imagine this thought incredibly well. I am also very interested in the Minister's response to this. At the same time, as far as the landlord levy is concerned, there are agreements, including our signature. So I'm just gonna wait and see.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u68	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mr Ronnes on behalf of the CDA.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u69	Mr. Chairman. It is well known that merchant houses in the big city are often bought up and rented directly or used for Airbnb. For starters and middle-income people, a house in the city becomes priceless. At the beginning of this century, only 3% were bought by small investors to continue renting, but the national average has now risen to 5.8%. In Rotterdam, Amsterdam, The Hague, Groningen and Maastricht, the percentages are now above 10%. The CDA is convinced that there is a problem, because it is increasingly difficult to get a home if you don't have a lot of money and make too much money for a social rental. Building is the best solution; this is beyond question. However, in the current situation, we will also have to look at a number of partial solutions that prevent excesses. I'm gonna walk away from some of them. One example is a self-inhabitation obligation for house buyers in the municipalities where the need is highest. If you buy a property, you have to live in it as a buyer. This can be enforced in new homes, but this does not seem to be enforceable in existing homes. The question to the Minister is: is it even possible for municipalities to make the obligation of self-inhabitation enforceable in existing homes? What if we wanted to? Is that legal, yes or no? Another point is a higher transfer tax for investors. Secretary of State Snel has previously indicated, in response to an amendment by the Labour Party, that he finds it impossible to determine who is an investor and who is a starter. But still, what opportunities does the government see for taxing investors more heavily than people who live in their own homes? Can the Minister or the Secretary of State for Finance identify what possibilities there are and what are their hooks and eyes? Another idea is to ban the purchase of homes by foreigners from outside the EU if it is only for the rental of those homes. This will prevent Russian and Chinese millionaires from disrupting the market here. The question to the Minister is: can this also be done in the Netherlands and is this legally possible? Estonia has introduced such a law. Can we do that? Then I get to the point of the Airbnb. I had a series of proposals for this, but this morning the Minister sent a letter to the Chamber in which a large number of my proposals were already completed, for which I am grateful. But one of them stuck. As far as the CDA is concerned, this does not go far enough to prevent abuse. Platforms like Airbnb are called upon to cooperate as a social duty. It will soon be required by law to cooperate, but they themselves will not be held responsible. In our view, a platform should be fined if it has an unregistered apartment on the site. France already has legislation for this. How does the Minister see this? Finally, Mr President, I would like to present the following to the Minister. In America, in the period from 2001 to 2006, creditworthy Americans bought massively houses to rent out. When the housing market started to fail in 2007, they were the first to stop paying on their rented housing mortgages, and that led to the housing crisis that caused us a lot of trouble in the Netherlands. Is history now repeating itself here, now that creditworthy Dutch people are buying houses massively to rent them out? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u70	This debate is about investors, and they should not be on Airbnb at all. It's meant for your own home, when you're on vacation. I understand that Mrs Beckerman has a debate request for tomorrow on the letter that came this morning. I struggle with the same kind of questions about Airbnb. Is it not better to raise these questions in that debate rather than go completely off-topic in this debate?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u71	I find this a very curious question. We are discussing the problems in the housing market, the rising prices and the effects of investors on the housing market. Why do investors come to the Netherlands and why do Dutch people invest in homes? Because the prices are going up. Why are prices going up? Among other things, because Airbnb was so attractive in the Netherlands. One of the measures you can take to relieve the market is to make Airbnb enforceable. That's my link to Airbnb. It seems to me that it would be useful to make proposals which would benefit the market here too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u72	Hard enforcement on Airbnb! You can count on it. I'm also looking at Mrs. Beckerman. You can count on us, don't worry. But investors aren't allowed on Airbnb.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u73	We are debating investors here, and this is a component that has a huge impact on the investment market.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u74	Thank you. Finally, I give the floor to Mrs Van Eijs on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u75	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Everyone deserves a suitable and affordable home, regardless of stage of life or income. This means that there must also be an opportunity for start-ups to buy a house and that they too can build a property. We see that the starter has to compete more often with an investor. If this leads to huge increases in prices and a small chance of access for start-ups, this is undesirable according to D66. In recent research by the Kadaster we can see that the price increases by the so-called buy-to-let are not yet easy to demonstrate. I would therefore like to thank the Minister for her forthcoming follow-up on this matter. Mr. Chairman. People who own a property should be able to rent this out. Of course this has to be done with just maintenance, proper treatment of the tenants and a fair price. According to D66, we should above all ensure that the incentive for property owners goes out to charge the top price for renting out sometimes bad homes. The emergency button can be a solution for these excesses. The Minister has already said something about this in the previous VAO. Is there anything else she can say here? Does it also see this as a possible solution to this issue? There is also a need to take tough action against crooked landlords. I was just talking about the Groningen model. The Chamber took almost Chamberwide several motions on this matter, I think also a motion by CDA and D66 that helped to make this possible. What about the possibilities for national introduction? Can this not be applied to this problem? At the same time, rental of purchased homes can contribute to increasing the middle rental segment for those for whom buying a property is not desirable or not feasible. At the moment, the middle rental segment is in a reasonable position, so the carer or the agent cannot always find a suitable home. In short, the challenge remains complex. We keep turning buttons because we cannot solve the root of the problem, the fact that we have built too little for ten years, in the short term. The cabinet is taking steps with the National Housing Agenda, but we must also ensure that the market for start-ups remains accessible. That is why I have a motion in the second term. I would like to hear what possible other solutions the Minister sees besides the solutions that have been put forward here today. That's it, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u76	Thank you. Mr Smeulders has another question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u77	I thought I'd wait till the end. During the Christmas holidays I have read the Algemeen Dagblad or in my case the Eindhovens Dagblad, but there is the same thing in it. There was a very big interview with Mr Jetten, your party leader. He made a lot of bold statements about speculators in the housing market. D66 was gonna take care of it. There would be maximum standards and not everyone could buy a house anymore. I've been waiting for this debate. I've been waiting for your contribution, but I haven't heard anything concrete from D66. What are you proposing to do about these speculators? What are the D66 proposals really?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u78	As I indicated, we have previously tabled a motion on the implementation of an emergency button. We have tabled a motion for that and it has been adopted by the Chamber. This seems to us to be a very good way of dampening the profits, which are now so incredibly high, and thus making it less attractive for investors to buy up these properties. This is a very concrete way of reducing investors' access to that market. Another one, which I also mentioned, is the Groningen model. There's just been talk of a habitation obligation. At the time, I also asked Mr Tugendhat, perhaps that is also a question to the Minister, Mr Tugendhat, whether a rental permit is not actually the same, but rather the other way round. They seem to be able to do that, because they do it in Groningen. Isn't it an option to see if you can handle things like this? These seem to me to be two very concrete proposals. In fact, we're already working on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u79	Finally, Mr Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u80	These are all things that already played for Mr Jetten's interview. In that respect, I really admire the Christian Union. The Christian Union has come up with a whole range of concrete measures in which they say: this and this, and we want to do so. We have submitted an own initiative paper. The SP's had a whole investigation done. The PvdA made proposals last year. Compliments for that. With regard to D66, I see above all a plan, or at least a proposal, on the front page of a newspaper and then very few concrete measures. Don't think of it as a reproach, but at least I hope that the proposals that have been tabled can also count on the support of D66, because you have the swing vote on a lot of dossiers. Hence my perhaps a little emotional appeal: don't just stick to fine words in the newspaper, but also deliver here in the Chamber; then we can make the difference together.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u81	If I may respond to that: beautiful articles in the newspaper are very nice and beautiful plans with a series of measures are also very nice, but I have read with great interest, for example, the research of the SP, at least most of them, and a large number of the recommendations contained therein are just being implemented. So I really like having a plan in the newspaper and a series of measures, but we are already doing a number of things. I am very curious to hear, for example, whether the differentiation of the transfer tax is really going to work. If it's really gonna work, I think it's a possibility. But if it doesn't work, then we're creating a false solution, and I don't think that's the intention, because it's a very serious problem.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u82	I see you walking to the interrupting microphone, Mr. Nijboer, but you're through your interruptions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u83	Do we only have two?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u84	Yeah, that's what we agreed. Really. I'm sorry. If I allow it to be with you, I must also allow it to be with Mr Koerhuis.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u85	And nobody's waiting for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u86	Thank you, Mrs Van Eijs. I'm suspending the meeting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u87	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And thank you also to all tonight's speakers, Members who are all concerned about the housing market. We often debate this with each other in different spaces in our beautiful parliament. And there is one thing we always agree on, namely that it must be possible for everyone in the Netherlands to live as pleasant, affordable and appropriate as possible to the situation, which is, of course, very different individually. That should be accessible to everyone, whether you're a single person or a family. And even if you choose a different form of housing, for everyone there must be a home available. The housing market is tight and so there is a great deal to be done about it. One of the things we've been putting on is that middle-rent segment. This is also mentioned in the coalition agreement and attention has also been paid to it in previous Cabinets through the Van Gijzel cooperation table. Many parties are needed: provinces, municipalities, housing corporations, project developers, builders, brokers and so on. But investors are also needed! Everyone has their own role to play, of course, but there is coherence and cooperation. When I talk about investors, I really want to draw attention to the distinction that exists between parties who establish a sustainable connection in the Dutch housing market and really make a valuable and really indispensable contribution, and those who act for speculative purposes. In other words, I do not want to do so, and I want to make it very clear at the beginning of the debate that we are putting all investors on the same footing. For those investors, which fortunately is the majority of investors active in the Dutch housing market, a stable investment environment is needed, using their capital, the availability of that capital, to build homes. It is a balance between, on the one hand, the approach to the supply of middle-rent housing, which they are needed for, and, on the other hand, the approach to speculators. That is what I choose to do, and that is what I say to Mr Smeulders, who asked a question about it. This middle rent is high on the agenda, because it is necessary to improve the functioning of the housing market. This middle rent also fits in with the need in the Netherlands for different types of households. They need more flexibility to take steps in their living lives. By the way, there are also new housing concepts, and that is what investors are now stepping into, which again fit the needs of our time. I am thinking, for example, of housing concepts for young start-ups who really want to live in the city and affordable homes, including certain partial facilities. Part bikes and washing machines: just things that people can share and that make living attractive again and also possible. Municipalities and investors are working very well together. I also think it is important that more middle rental homes are added to the stock in the existing construction. Those homes should be accessible and affordable in that particular segment without excessive rent increases. We want to tackle them and push them away. The same applies to the risk of buying up existing housing, which is indeed the risk of crowding out those start-ups, who are often in the same price segment. Those are real risks, and we also know examples of this happening. I take that very seriously, too. Finding the right balance in that addition of more middle rent and what you can do about it, and the approach to excesses is, I think, the art. We must continue to adjust where necessary and do what is proportionate. This means that investors who show excessive behaviour and who are not so much an investor as a speculator... What do you call that? Parties that are actually only looking for even higher profits. Those are the ones for which we also pay attention through this approach of good landlordship. For cottage milkers, we have put forward new regulations. Again, I really want to make that distinction very clear: investors are needed, but we do not want speculators. I would also like to mention something that was the subject of the previous debate, that emergency button in the context of the Ronnes/Van Eijs motion. Apologies, it's now Van Eijs/Ronnes. I'm working on an emergency button in the context of that motion. There are also studies in progress on this point. I'll come back to that in a minute. The same applies to the letter of 22 January, to which I also referred in the previous debate, which proposes to limit the number of points of the World Health Organisation in the housing valuation system. I have also said that I want to work on it further. I'll get back to you on that. It is perhaps good to highlight in the introduction that I think that we need to have an even better picture of what investors' activities mean for the accessibility and financial stability of the housing market; there is still too little information on this. That is why, as I announced in the letter to your Chamber, I am investigating with the Kadaster and De Nederlandsche Bank the extent to which there is a price effect on housing as a result of that investment situation. That should give us an insight into this displacement. Some of the speakers just assumed the displacement of the start-ups. I see the risk, but it's really important that we better analyse it and have more information about it. That investigation is ongoing. I expect that will be ready for the summer. Of course, there are other ways to deal with the housing stock. We have already discussed the role of the municipalities, including in the composition of the new building stock. I have informed the Chamber that Platform31 is conducting an investigation into the use of the destination category social purchase for new buildings to allow housing to be allocated by municipalities to start-ups among others. There has already been an adaptation of the Spatial Planning Decision in 2017 so that municipalities can include middle rent in the zoning plan for new construction as a destination. Municipalities make local use of the cooperation tables, which we have also discussed before. We are working to make it easier for corporations to get permission to create middle-rent by simplifying the market test, which was also referred to just now. The housing deals also have to work out agreements on how more middle rentals can be added to the stock. In short, there is a lot going on. That is also important, because living is a great asset, and accessibility, not only from the middle rental market but actually across the whole housing market, is a major priority for the cabinet. Mr. Chairman. The questions that have been asked relate to a number of different subjects. I wanted to start with what I call the role of investors. That is what the whole debate is about, but on a number of other points you asked for specific figures and specific measures. So let me start, in a general sense, by referring to the role of investors, which I mentioned in my introduction. Mrs Beckerman sketched an image in which the big winners in the housing market are the investors. I think she's putting a little too much everyone who's an investor in the booth of the speculator. That is why I made that distinction so emphatically in my introduction. I would like to ask Mrs Beckerman whether she also sees that we need that investor. It is also our pension funds that invest. That is what they are doing with the money that will soon have to become available as a pension for employees in the Netherlands. This is a very normal situation, in which they simply have to get a normal return and can achieve it, because they are largely able to make the investments that generate a return, which provide our pensions and at the same time provide the homes that are badly needed, especially in some regions of our country. I was talking about pension funds, but Mrs Beckerman also asked about foreign investors. She suggested, I thought, that it would not be good to have foreign investors in the Netherlands. But the same applies to those investors. You've got them in different kinds, too. You have foreign investors who simply invest to improve our housing market, to affordable, accessible and liveable homes. So they have added value. But there may also be foreign investors who are more in the category of speculators, of excesses, of excessive rents in the housing market. It fits in with the approach good landlordship to avoid that latter. Moreover, in the context of European legislation, it is not possible to treat foreign investors differently from Dutch investors. I think Mrs Beckerman knows that, too. Mrs. Dik-Faber pointed to buy-to-let. She said she felt it was undesirable for social housing to be bought up and then transferred to the other sector. Well, most of the sales by housing corporations take place to sitting tenants, so to the people who live or live in the house themselves. The corporations sell very little to investors in proportion. It happens, I'll admit it, but it's really about small numbers. In 2016 it was 3,000 homes and in 2017 1,500 homes. If you look at it over a period of four years, it's 1,725 homes. So those aren't very large numbers. But that is not really the most important thing; my main point that I want to give to Mrs Dik-Faber is that I think that local parties can best determine what the social housing stock should look like and whether selling social housing fits in there. The performance agreements made by municipalities guarantee that they themselves have control over their social housing stock and sales.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u89	My point was not primarily focused on the housing corporations, but on the investors who are now hijacking existing homes in front of families, start-ups on the housing market, who are looking for a place to live. Here in The Hague, one in five homes that become available on the market is already sold to an investor. Shouldn't we put a lot more weight on that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u90	If that is Mrs Dik-Faber's question, the following. I said at the beginning that there is indeed a risk of investor displacement of start-ups, because these groups are often interested in the same types of housing: some smaller houses that are also affordable. I think that's what Mrs Dik-Faber meant. That is exactly what I am referring to when I say that we need to have a better view of this. I think what we are seeing now is going on in the big cities and happening in the big cities, so where the housing market is the tightest. If you look at the whole country, you can see that the number of starters is almost the same as before the crisis. So if there are displacements, it's very local. But that is, of course, essential, because it happens in the cities where the biggest deficits are. Municipalities have various instruments to counter this. However, as far as the situation Mrs Dik-Faber is concerned, a situation which I have just mentioned to the speculators, I believe that we need to develop an additional instrument to get a grip on it, for example by working out the emergency button, which can prevent excessive rents.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u91	It is, of course, a good thing that the Minister wants to do more research. Because the problems are not the same everywhere. At the same time, the problem is present and people are now running into it. Starters on the housing market can't find a home and the problem has a price uplifting effect. Of course, the emergency button, which has already been discussed in the debate. But there are so many more ways to deal with this. Think of increasing the transfer tax, a self-inhabitation obligation, more grip of municipalities on the tenant market. I am very curious to see whether the Minister might wish to make some fine words about this in the course of this debate. I think we really need more than what we're putting together right now.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u92	Mrs Dik-Faber and others have asked questions about the points she has now raised. So, of course, I'm gonna go into that in a second. Absolutely.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u93	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u94	Let me finish the subject of investors. I understand that very well, but I have put it under the heading of measures. I'll get back to you on that. Mr Ronnes wondered whether investors were a risk to financial stability. He pointed out the history of the financial crisis, especially in the United States, and how it went back then. I understand his question and his concerns very well. I just said that in the Netherlands, investors in real estate are very different. To a large extent they are institutional investors, but it varies from very large parties to people who have invested in the housing market with some properties in their possession. It will therefore be very different from the situation to the way these investors are financed. For non-business and professional investors, the risk is reduced as they have to comply with the regular mortgage rules. For professional investors, lenders often do not finance more than 80% of the value of the property. Only part of the loan may be redeemed. Business buy-to-let mortgages are usually less leveraged than regular mortgages. All in all, and I say this after consultation with the Ministry of Finance, we are not very concerned about the risks to financial stability. Mr. Chairman. Before I move on to the measures, I would like to reply to Mr Koerhuis' question. He asked about a number of facts and figures, or in good Dutch figures. He asked about the percentage of starters, streamers and investors. I believe that I have included this information in the State of the Housing Market. It contains the number of transactions registered by the Kadaster in the purchase sector 2017: 82.000 purchases by starters, 133.000 by streamers and 26.000 by private landlords, or 11%. In the big cities, it's something else: 14,000 by starters, 12,000 by streamers and almost 7,000 by private landlords, and that's 21%.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u95	I think the head of investors is finished. It was also about investing in homes from abroad. I have mentioned the example of Estonia, which has regulations in which municipalities can, under special circumstances, ensure that, for example, Chinese or Americans cannot acquire real estate. Is such a measure conceivable in the Netherlands? Can we do this in accordance with European legislation, as is the case in Estonia?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u96	I don't have an answer to that question. I want to see if I can figure that out for the second term. You would say that if it happens in Estonia, it should be in line with European regulations, but I do not know the regulations in Estonia. I will do my best to see if I can say a little more about that in the second term.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u97	That's good. Mr. Koerhuis.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the Minister's first answer. About 10% of the purchase is made by investors. Perhaps the answer is not now, but can a letter indicate how many of those 10% purchases from investors are among each other? Those are transactions you're not supposed to count. How much is a pension fund that buys for the first time or an entrepreneur who buys two or three houses as pension provision?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u99	That information's kind of hard to figure out. I would like to do my best, as Mr Koerhuis said, to see to what extent we are able to zoom in on this by letter. I can't say that every detail can really do that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u100	I think it's important. There are some rather heavy measures suggested in this debate. Before we go this far, it's nice to know what the real problem is. Can the Minister assure us that, for example, for the elaboration of the emergency button or the other heavy measures mentioned here, we know at least what the percentage of investors is that does not rent out to each other, that is not a pension fund or that is not an entrepreneur who rents out two or three houses as pension provision?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u101	I always appreciate the great interest that Mr Koerhuis has and the fact that he is so keen to rely on figures. I'm really gonna try to give you those numbers. He may assume that I want to base myself, of course, on the actual situation when drawing up the emergency button. That is why I said that we must do this very carefully. Again, it must be an emergency button that works against excessive rents, which provides more offer of middle rental, but which at the same time does not price the Dutch middle hire out of the market, which means that we will have a worse situation than we do now. As far as I can dig it out around those investors, I'll forward it to the Chamber. He also asked if a starter would go against a streamer or an investor. At the end of 2017, the Land Registry carried out an exploratory study on the displacement of start-ups by private landlords. The preliminary conclusion was that this seemed to be the case in Amsterdam, but not in The Hague, Rotterdam and Utrecht. At that time, however, it was said that further research should be carried out. So it actually started back then. That is the result of the investigation that I promised the Chamber and which I just said should be ready for the summer. The Kadaster and the University of Amsterdam are doing that follow-up research. Then I come to a large number of questions. These are the last questions that have been raised in the debate, all of which relate to different measures. Mrs Dik-Faber also just came across the interrupting microphone. I'll start with the duty of self-inhabitation. I thought Mrs Beckerman was the first to ask this question. I drew attention to the fact that municipalities have different possibilities of directing themselves on the local housing stock. I thought I mentioned that in the letter to the Chamber. For example, if the municipality owns the land, when issuing the land, it may require self-inhabitation and, for example, impose an obligation to self-inhabit. If she doesn't own it, so can she, but by an anterior agreement. You'll include similar provisions. Municipalities can make use of these possibilities. A generic residence obligation for existing construction is not possible. Then I come to an argument that I often use as Mrs Beckerman and I speak on this subject, namely the right of ownership and also the right to freedom of establishment and freedom of movement. I find it useful as an instrument. I think municipalities have opportunities to use that, and they do. But I wouldn't want to make it generic and I don't see any possibility of that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u102	I still have a supplementary question. Many municipalities want to apply this, for example Amsterdam and Groningen, but they can only do so now for new buildings. They ask whether they can do the same for existing construction, precisely in order to maintain the quality of life in neighborhoods and in complexes. Because it's really a problem: investors who buy up, sell up again in the short term, tenants who come and go. The Minister actually says that I can't, because then I'm going to enter into their freedom and property rights. On the Wadden we do have such a construction and the law makes an exception. Then why is it different there?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u103	Let's start with the target. This is about a certain instrument. The municipalities already have several options to steer them, including through their own instruments. As far as I am concerned, the goal is not necessarily that people have to live in the house they own, but the goal is not to ask for excessive rents. I'm not responsible for letting people rent a property they own. If you introduce the duty of self-inhabitation, it turns out to be the point of view. That's more the starting point I have. I do know the situation in the Wadden Islands. I do not now have what exactly is being used as ground for that. I should come back to that in the second term. So the fundamental point is that I think it is a long way from taking this as a starting point in a general sense, but municipalities can use it where they need it and have the instruments to do it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u104	The Minister says that she thinks that goes far, but what goes very far are the problems in the neighbourhoods. The minister says the goal is to keep the rents down. I am entirely in favour of this, and I have made other proposals for this, but my goal is also to improve the quality of life in neighbourhoods. The Minister continues to point out the possibilities that municipalities have, but they simply do not have them for existing construction. So I would really like to ask why this interest that the Minister attaches so much to that property right should be so much more important than the importance, the general interest, the public interest, of good affordable housing in pleasant residential areas.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u105	We are in complete agreement on that point. The only question is, how do you achieve it? Mrs Beckerman says that she would like to use that instrument for this purpose. I say that I think we should use a whole palette of instruments for this, that it is also very dependent on the local situation and that I would rather have an entire toolkit, to use just one word that was in a debate earlier than just this one instrument.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u106	Last interruption, Mrs. Fat-Faber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u107	Okay, Mr. Chairman. The last interruption, all right. Come on. Of course I do. My question to the Minister concerns that toolkit. This instrument isn't in there. Municipalities can't use it for existing homes. The Minister states that she does not consider it desirable either. Then my question is: can we? We can remove legal barriers to allow municipalities to add this toolkit to their toolkit. Right, Minister?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u108	I have just outlined the situation in which a municipality can do so, so when issuing land if it owns it itself or if it concludes an anterior agreement with new construction. I have also said that a generic residence obligation for existing housing is not legally possible. I have also indicated that, quite apart from the fact that this is not legally possible, I wonder whether that would be desirable, because I think that is a serious breach of the principles of property law, the free movement of capital and the right to freedom of establishment. So I do see fundamental objections to that, that is true.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u109	I hear the Minister's objections in principle, but it is still not clear to me whether it is simply not legal or whether the Minister does not wish to regulate it legally. That's a big difference for me. Municipalities have a lot of instruments, but not for existing homes. I'm in a different place than the Minister. She states that she does not find it difficult in principle to sell houses and then rent them, but I do see that investors and families are looking for the same homes together. Surely it would be a good idea to give municipalities, even temporarily and for certain areas, the opportunity to limit themselves here?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u110	Maybe we can agree on two things. One is that there are possibilities for new land issuance. Mrs Dik-Faber says, and Mrs Beckerman also says, that it is also about existing houses. I say to the Chamber that this is not legally possible now, at least when it comes to a generic residence obligation. This in itself is an obligation to live in existing homes. This is not one of the legal possibilities. I recognise that some municipalities say that they really have a problem and that this could be an instrument that they could help, that they might want to use. Not generic, not for everything and not everywhere, but that they might need it in certain places. That is, of course, the type of conversation I can have with municipalities, also in the context of discussions on the housing deals in the deprived regions. But that is different from moving away from that principle across the board. Then you are more looking for customization, to solve specific problems on specific parts of the local housing market. Mr. Chairman. Then there's the transfer tax. Mrs Beckerman was the first to raise this point, but a number of others have also spoken about it. I know Mr Nijboer's ideas, for example. I have also seen that the Christian Union has put forward proposals for this this week. The question is, of course, whether this solves the problem, regardless of whether it is possible, because it may be too complex to make such a construction. Does a higher transfer tax for investors solve the problem we see in the housing market? It is likely that if you apply for a higher transfer tax to an investor, the investor will charge it to the tenant. So that just increases the rent. That is not the effect that those who propose this measure have in mind. I have already said, and Mr Snel van Financiën has also reported this, that it is extremely complex and complex and that it may also lead to constructions to avoid such a higher tax rate. For this debate, I would like to mention it, because it is not a side issue.... the most important argument: I am not convinced at the moment that it will really help.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u111	The interesting thing about this debate is that the Minister is constantly shielding with the fact that she has a whole toolkit. I would call it a toolkit with several measures, each individual measure being considered separately by both opposition and coalition, whereas we have presented a coherent one. Do and-and: protect tenants in the free sector, lower the rents and increase the transfer tax. My simple question to the Minister is: doesn't the Minister see that precisely this higher transfer tax could prevent some smaller investors who are not saving now because interest rates are low and who are therefore buying a house that causes the start-ups a lot of trouble?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u112	Let me reverse the question. Suppose that the highest return can be achieved by going into the real estate and the tightness continues I do everything I can to make sure that that is not so then I fear that what I just outlined is going to happen, namely that that higher transfer tax will be passed on in the rent. I'd like to deal with these excessive rents. I have a less fundamental problem with this, but I am only afraid that the effect will not be achieved. And I would like to point out once again the problem of implementation of such a complex set-up of transfer tax. For the Land Registry, it is very difficult to make the distinction, I believe that one of the speakers just referred to it as well between start-ups and investors.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u113	I'd almost say you're doing it again. Because we have already proposed to limit rents in the free sector. This can also be done simply by going through that point system. Tenants don't have to suffer from this. I should therefore like to turn the question to the Minister: what is the Minister going to do about this large group of new investors who are now entering the housing market and who are only doing so to earn from it, with all the consequences? What action does the Minister intend to take? What's in her tool kit to keep investors from doing this?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u114	That is the emergency button I have proposed. This emergency button enables the municipalities to deal with the excessive rents. That's the approach I choose. Mrs Beckerman does not have to agree, but that is an approach to reducing excessive rents.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u115	I see Mr Koerhuis nodding so strongly that that should give the Minister a chance to think. That's because of the following. It's always about balance. Of course, there have always been investors who rent houses and there are pension funds. There is no one here in the Chamber who says that this should not happen again or that they should not invest, but the balance between the chances of a starter and an investor, especially with such a low interest rate environment, has been distorted. Part of the Chamber, including the Christian Union, wants to restore that balance. Would the Minister acknowledge that it is also very attractive to invest in real estate in tax terms and that this has consequences for other people who are also looking for a home, for example start-ups?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u116	I have already begun to recognise that there is indeed a risk of displacement of start-ups because it is attractive for investors to step into this. In some cases, this is not necessarily the case with the same investor who then offers housing for a normal rental price, so that people can enter the housing market and the middle income can, for example, get a middle rental house. After all, that is only a very small segment of our housing market. I think the housing market would work better with more middle rent. I have no objection in principle to the tax approach proposed by Mr Nijboer; I would point out a number of risks. I point out the risk that it doesn't matter. I would point out the risk that it will still be taxed in the rents. I would point out the risk that it would make the transfer tax very complex. I would point out that it says that it is very difficult to distinguish between start-ups and investors. If such proposals are made, I think it is fair to point out those who ask for them.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u117	I think the Minister and the PvdA are really different on one point. The Minister is always looking at excrement and wants to address something specific and very regional, while I see it as a macro problem. I see it's really too attractive to invest in real estate right now. That's the consequence of towering rents. I don't think they'd get any higher if that tax went up. I think it's gonna be less attractive to invest in it, because they're already asking for towering rents. If you ask for all the maximum of people, you can't ask anymore, especially in an inelastic market, to say it technically. That needs to be done on a fiscal basis. You can do that with the transfer tax. That's a proposition. I've made proposals before to tax the rent income. I've made proposals that, if you rent more than three houses, you have to do so in a company and not in box 3. There are more methods, more roads that lead to Rome. I don't hang on to that, but I would ask the Minister to give another opinion on whether it is not a problem that the shift is so big, in the sense that a few years ago many more start-ups really had a chance and now many more investors from all over the world but also in the Netherlands are taking over that market. Doesn't the Minister see that as a big problem? It is not just a regional problem, by the way. Cadzand was also mentioned and I know what. It is about the whole economy, and that is, of course, because the money is seeking its way.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u118	I agree with Mr Nijboer on that last point. That's how the market works. We are now in a situation where efficiency can be achieved there and not in ways that previously provided much more return. So I agree with him. That also means that it can change. Then you should not take measures that may have an adverse effect, for example increasing rents. Because then, if the economic situation changes, you might have taken a measure that will close the housing market further. I am not against thinking about this at all, but I think we have to face up to the fact that we have not yet found the right solution.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u119	Go on, because I think you have a lot of questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u120	Well, it's starting to work out nicely. Then there was another proposal from Mrs Beckerman, but after that Mr Smeulders really caught up with her on the left, I think. It's about the housing valuation system. Mrs Beckerman said that we could carry that up to €1,000. And I believe that Mr Smeulders has just proposed regulating the entire rental market. He looks very satisfied with it, so at least I understood him correctly. Here too: we do not want to rent usury, absolutely not. I want regular middle-rentals for middle-income people. My proposal is to take care of that by means of that emergency button. I don't want the scarcity to lead to excesses. I want an emergency button for the municipalities so that these excesses can be dealt with. The continuation of the housing valuation system actually continues, because that means that you will determine for every home in the Netherlands what a reasonable rental price is. I'm not in favour of regulating everything. I also wonder whether those same investors, which I said we need them, can still invest at the time when we have regulated the whole of the rental sector and therefore cannot get a normal return there. Again, I am talking about pension funds and not speculators. I am talking about pension funds, which must be able to invest money with a certain return, including in the Netherlands, even in projects that lead to more housing. If you chase it away, I think we know of a situation that is complicated, that is scarcity and that leads to excesses, we will go to a situation where we will see far too little investment in the housing market. So I am not in favour of that. The Groningen model has just been mentioned by several speakers. They made that licensing system possible under the APV. Through the living deal, I have also provided resources for this, to really experiment with it and to be able to do that pilot in a good way. In the meantime, other cities have indeed shown interest. I can also refer to Mr Nijboer's motion, which called for the legal barriers to be identified. In the meantime, other cities have shown interest at aldermen's level, so of course we will continue to do so. If I understand correctly, Mrs Dik-Faber has asked about the landlord levy for small private landlords. The situation is that small landlords are being spared. In 2018, that tax-free base in the landlord's tax was increased to 50 homes. I think that works well. I hope Mrs Dik-Faber agrees. Mr Ronnes wondered whether a ban on the purchase of houses by foreigners outside the EU would be legally possible. I think that's the point Mr Ronnes just made. A ban on foreigners cannot be allowed, which is contrary to EU law. I repeat, I do not know the situation of Iceland. I don't think I'd find out tonight either. Mr Ronnes also asked for opportunities to tax people who do not live in the house more heavily. That is actually a bit along the lines of the debate we have just had. There are, of course, reasons to look at the way in which rental income is taxed. I also believe that my colleague, the Secretary of State for Finance, has already promised to include this in his exploration of the improvement of the tax system. That is what he is doing in preparation for what a next cabinet could do in this tax system. In addition to the tax burden, the impact of the alternatives on the administrative burden on citizens, the housing market, the state budget and implementation is also reflected. Of that investigation, this could and should be part of it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u121	The last interruption, Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u122	I don't have a lot of them, Mr. Chairman. Actually, I don't like it, but I accept it. I heard the minister say in a subtitle: that's for a next cabinet. This cabinet is a year and a half. Have you been ruled out already?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u123	On the contrary. No, I don't want to wake up that suggestion at all. But I am speaking on behalf of Mr Snel. This is a promise he has made. He has promised to include this in the building blocks for the improvement of the tax system. He is now also working on an improvement in the tax system, but he also wants to work on changes that you could make in a subsequent cabinet formation. That also makes sense, because we can of course only adapt the tax system to a limited extent in one cabinet period. That is how I wished to convey his commitment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u124	I find that a little disappointing, because the needs are now high. For example, I have also read the Christian Union's proposals this week, except for the landlord levy; I do not agree with that, but it explicitly stated that this is for a subsequent cabinet. But in the rest of the proposals I thought I would read: the need is for the man; there is housing shortage and we have to do something about it. Now the Minister actually says in a subtlety: well, we are going to look at it and we find it interesting, but another coalition is just starting to work on it. That's not what I can expect from you, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u125	Mr Nijboer has heard me say that I have reiterated here a commitment that Mr Snel has already made in this Chamber. That's what I wanted to say. Beyond that, the mind must never stop.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u126	Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u127	That is what Mr Nijboer has been able to see today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u128	But that's not gonna make it sooner. So it's going to be the next cabinet. The Minister and the Secretary of State are going to be waiting for investigations for their successors.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u129	I repeat: that is a commitment that Mr Snel has made quickly. Beyond that, the mind must never stop. I think that is what we have seen today when we pass on the climate agreement and subsequent proposals from the cabinet. Then it's the middle rent. Mrs Van Eijs paid a great deal of attention to this. I would like to mention a few more examples. She asked about this; she asked if there are any other solutions possible for the middle hire. We've got the Platform market exploration. That's actually some kind of middle-rent market place. That was launched last year. The Internal Urban Transformation Finance Facility is open to applications. The municipalities themselves continue with these cooperation tables, if they already had them, or set up new cooperation tables. That happens, for example, in Amersfoort. I think I've said a lot about the emergency button. I believe that next week we will be discussing in the Chamber the proposal for a directive on mid-term rental and the simplification of the market test and the clarification of the Housing Act.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u130	Were you finished with Mrs Van Eijs' questions?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u131	Yes, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u132	Those are very nice measures to hear. I think they're very good for middle rent. But I also asked the Minister because I am also searching for what we could do, in addition to such a transfer tax, which may or may not work, even more to give the start-ups still access to the market. Maybe that got a little mixed up with the rest of my text. So I am not really looking for measures for middle hire, but rather for measures for the start-up.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u133	I understood that Mrs Van Eijs had mainly asked questions about middle hire and the emergency button middle hire, but the starter is of course also an important one. I outlined at the beginning, also in response to questions from Mrs Beckerman, that municipalities have some possibilities. I have referred to Platform31's research, which also looks at this. That will also come out in the course of this year. I therefore agree with Mrs Van Eijs that, of course, the start-up should also be part of what we agree on in the municipalities and with each other. Mr. Chairman. Mr Ronnes had another question about tourist rentals. He specifically asked why the platforms in the proposals I have just sent to the Chamber are not legally required to cooperate with that registration number. I believe that the proposal to amend this in the law will mainly give municipalities instruments to which platforms should also contribute. It is therefore important that there should be a registration requirement and that municipalities should also be able to opt for a notification requirement and a licence requirement. It is also the case that municipalities may sometimes need the information that platforms need to maintain. The enforcement, supervisory role lies with the government, i.e. with the municipalities, but they sometimes need information from those platforms. My proposal also states that, if necessary, they can even enforce a periodic penalty payment to ensure that these platforms participate in it. So what I see in front of me is really a combination of powers for municipalities and with the possibility of imposing a reporting obligation, licensing obligation and registration obligation to create a functioning system, which includes those platforms. We will undoubtedly be discussing this, but that is the proposal I have made.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u134	I understand what the Minister means, but it's not complete. It can't be that platforms go free if they deliberately put homes on their platform that they know they're not supposed to be on. We are allowed to appeal to these platforms, which are very strong economic units, on their social responsibility. You can see the situation in Paris, for example, that they are really going to deal with Airbnb in that area and actually issue fines. Why can't we go so far? It is really necessary to counter these rising prices of homes and to make Airbnb unattractive as well. I think we should appeal to a company or a platform on that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u135	I fully agree with Mr Ronnes that we can really appeal to the companies. Platforms and tech companies need to be contacted. But there has also been a development in this respect, because the talks are ongoing. They go a long way and then they go a bit better, but there is dialogue with these companies. They have a responsibility in that, and I really want to appeal to them. I'm really familiar with what other cities do, Barcelona, Paris. That may sound very tough at times, but take it from me that the approach we are taking here is effective and that it will lead to the provision on these large sites being regulated, offerings that comply with the regulations that the municipality makes. I think that our main objective should be to ensure that we get a grip on this and that the municipalities get instruments that match their local situation. We all know the situations in which this has gone a bit far. This gives the municipalities the instruments in their hands. I think that's the most important thing. I also agree with Mr Ronnes that we should look at whether or not we should impose obligations on these platforms. There are discussions in Brussels, so we are also looking at how we want to deal with these companies at that level at European level. Of course I'm prepared to do that. I believe that Mr Keijzer, the Secretary of State for EZK, has also promised the Chamber to do so. That's the trajectory. This is something that we here in the Netherlands quickly, at least quickly, it is legislation that can be arranged with each other to enable the municipalities to deal with this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u136	Mr Ronnes, finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u137	But we, as the Netherlands, are allowed to lead the way. Surely we, the Netherlands, should stick our necks out in order not only to allow the citizen to be responsible for this position if something goes wrong, but also the platforms that facilitate it and ensure that it can happen. We can just talk to them about that, can't we? Moreover, I have not heard from the Minister what is her real objection to doing so in relation to the measures already announced in the letter this morning.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u138	I'm looking for the tools the municipalities need to get a grip on this. I also know the situation from my previous position in Amsterdam. I know how it was developed after that. Mr Ronnes may assume that we really appeal to the platforms. Aldermen do that, so do I and colleagues in other countries. Of course we have to, but we are looking for the most effective instruments. Once you have entered the registration obligation, you can of course also agree with the platforms that there is never an offer on their site that does not meet that requirement. Of course, we'll have to call them on that. I am looking for that instrument that is most effective in tackling, again here, the excesses of tourist rental and in getting a grip on this rapidly developing market. I thought I only owed Mr Koerhuis a few more answers. Just like Mrs Eijs, he asked for attention to be paid to the buying sector. He asked how a consumer could actually spend more on rent than on the purchasing sector and asked for research into this phenomenon. I understand that very well. I also understand very well that it is difficult for people that they sometimes have to pay a high rent, when they are unable to buy, but they might want to do so. This is a discussion we've been having for a long time. The difference between buying and renting, of course, is not just about the monthly costs. It's also about long-term responsibilities that buyers have. Buying means responsibility for the loan that the buyer takes on, for the home and for the maintenance. That is why it is important to be able to assess whether someone can bear these costs in the future. Renting offers more flexibility. If anything changes in the personal situation, it's easier to move. And as a tenant, you don't pay for the costs you have as a buyer. The Nibud investigates the level of the housing costs relative to the income. The Nibud also looks at what expenses people could save in order to bear those housing costs. I shall, of course, pass on the results to the Chamber. (NL) Mr President, finally, the student debt. The House has already called for this to be taken into account. It is said that these student debts weigh heavily; could we not lower the weighting factor? Mr Koerhuis asked for this again today. Loan standards are designed to protect consumers from overdrafting. That's what they're for. You should, of course, see if someone can bear the monthly burden of the mortgage loan. Then, of course, you have to consider long-term financial commitments on the other hand, and study loans also weigh on disposable income, like other loans. But because of the social refund conditions, the weighting factor for the student debt is significantly lower, especially if you compare it with a consumer credit. Last year, the Nibud investigated the Koerhuis motion. It has considered whether it would be possible to reduce that weighting factor. At that time, the Nibud considered this to be unwise, as this nevertheless entails the risk of overrequisition. I said then that I appreciated the independent judgment of the Nibud and would take that advice. I informed your Chamber of that in a letter. Mr. Chairman. I can still answer Mrs Beckerman's question about the Wadden Islands. Why can the properties on the Wadden Islands be regulated? In the Housing Act, freedom of establishment is the starting point. You can deviate from that in exceptional situations. The exceptional thing about the Wadden Islands is that the housing stock there cannot be expanded. This means that you can support the fact that there is a different situation and that preference can also be given to people with social or economic ties to the islands for housing. I have now been reminded that this is not the same as the duty of self-inhabitation which Mrs Beckerman pointed out. It is about who is allowed to live in the rental house or the purchase house, namely the one with a social or economic connection. So that's not necessarily the owner. Mr. Chairman. In doing so, I hope that I have answered the questions of all Members.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u139	Thank you. Then we have now reached the second term of office. I give the floor to Mrs Beckerman on behalf of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u140	Do I only have one minute?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u141	One-third of the first-term speaking time. I don't know how many motions you have?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u142	Three, so I'm gonna read real fast.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u143	Good luck.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u144	That was in time. In view of the very critical contributions made by ChristenUnion and CDA, for example, I hope that there will be sufficient support for these motions. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u145	Thank you, Mrs Beckerman. I now give the floor to Mr Nijboer on behalf of the PvdA. I'd start the motions right away.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u146	Mr. Chairman. I've never had so many motions, you know, so it's gonna be easy. I'd almost start with an introduction to challenge you. Mr President, the first motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that a lot of land is bought up by speculators;]] [[noting that market participants are waiting to build until the price is highest;]] [[Whereas municipalities and the Empire have no power to build large-scale parties;]] [[calls on the government to consider how landowners can be forced to build,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Nijboer, Mr Smeulders and Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-491]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u147	My second and final motion, Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that speculators are entitled to damage to plans if they suffer damage due to changes in municipal plans, but do not pay to the community in the case of planning benefits;]] [[believes it is fair that not only the speculator, but also the community benefits if the land becomes more valuable;]] [[calls on the government to investigate how the community can benefit from the benefits of planning,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Nijboer, Mr Smeulders and Mr Beckerman. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-492]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u148	Mr. Chairman. After this 30-member debate, I look forward to debates on legislation, because we need to do something in this Chamber. We shouldn't just talk and investigate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u149	Thank you, Mr. Nijboer. I now give the floor to Mr Koerhuis on behalf of the VVD. I'd start the motions right away. That's always handy.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u150	Mr. Chairman. Let's help buyers. That's why the next two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that start-ups often find it difficult to obtain a mortgage;]] [[noting that a study loan weighs into the maximum possible mortgage for start-ups;]] [[Whereas a study loan may have a weighting per month that can exceed 100% over the entire duration;]] [[Whereas a total weighting factor above 100% is disproportionate;]] [[calls on the government to reduce the overall weighting to below 100%,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas investors compete with buyers;]] [[Whereas monthly income standards for buyers who have to handle banks have been made tighter than monthly income standards for tenants who use investors;]] [[whereas buyers have more monthly burdens than tenants, but the gap between buying and renting is sometimes very large;]] [[Calls on the government to have the Nibud conduct a wide-ranging investigation into this issue and to send a letter with proposals on how to resolve this for the 2019 budget consultation Living,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member of the House of Lords. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-493]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member of the House of Lords. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-494]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u151	Mr. Chairman. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the transfer tax for investors is now as high as that for start-ups;]] [[noting that taxes on labour are covered by Box 1 and taxes on rental income are often covered by Box 3;]] [[noting that a landlord's tax has to be paid on (most) social housing, which has been introduced as a crisis measure, and that landlords of housing in the liberalised segment do not have to pay this charge;]] [[points out that it is desirable to distribute home taxation more fairly between individuals, corporations and investors;]] [[calls on the Government to draw up an analysis of the different taxes levied on the housing market and to come forward with proposals for a fairer distribution for the 2020 Tax Plan,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Smeulders, Mr Beckerman and Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-495]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u152	I have a question for the author on that last motion. There is talk of a regime in which extra taxes are levied if you buy a property that is not intended for private property to live in. If you introduce that, does your proposal also apply to corporations? This would mean that the corporations would be taxed even more heavily.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u153	Thank you for this question. I'm going to answer that at a normal rate. That does not go away from my speaking time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u154	Did you put this in with Mr. Ronnes?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u155	No, I really don't, but I'm happy about it anyway. We have deliberately formulated it in a very general way, because we find in the Christian Union's plan a number of elements that we can agree with. We know that as a CDA, for example, you are quite critical of the landlord's tax. We deliberately made a motion that we hope is feasible. We say in that: in our view it is not fairly divided now and we ask the cabinet to come forward with proposals to make it fairer. That should not have counterproductive effects, as you have just suggested.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u156	Finally, Mr Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u157	That's good. Then I wish the Minister every success in getting that straight, because it seems to me to be very complex to keep up with all this. Let's wait and see what's gonna come out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u158	Proceed, Mr. Smeulders.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u159	We're waiting, too. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in several cities there is a shortage of affordable rental and buying houses;]] [[noting that there are foreign investors who, against the wishes of municipalities and residents, buy large quantities of houses with the aim of achieving short-term returns;]] [[considers that housing is primarily intended to live in and should not be an investment object;]] [[Calls on the Government to consider the legal possibilities for municipalities to prevent the massive buy-back of homes and, if necessary, to come forward with additional proposals in consultation with municipalities if the existing legal possibilities are insufficient, and to inform the Court of Justice of this before September 2019,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Smeulders, Mr Beckerman and Mr Nijboer. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-496]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u160	I really hope for the support of these motions, given the input of a number of coalition parties.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u161	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Dik-Faber on behalf of the Christian Union.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u162	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Two motions. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the transfer tax on residential property was reduced from 6% to 2% in 2011;]] [[Whereas (private) investors have in recent years bought up more and more existing properties to rent (buy-to-let), especially in (larger) cities;]] [[Whereas investors often outrun start-ups, making it increasingly difficult for start-ups in these cities to buy a house;]] [[considers that this development is undesirable;]] [[calls on the Government, in the run-up to the next tax plan, to explore how the transfer tax can be properly differentiated in an executable way, in such a way as to exempt start-ups from transfer tax and to provide investors with a higher rate from the third home, and to inform the Summer Recess Chamber thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Dik-Faber and Mr Ronnes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-497]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u163	Second motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that municipalities have several possibilities to enforce temporary self-inhabitation, but that for legal reasons it is impossible for municipalities to regulate temporary self-inhabitation in the existing purchase stock;]] [[considers that this should be possible for municipalities, obviously with the necessary exceptions, such as for first-degree family members and, for example, for medium-term rental;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how the legal obstacles to municipalities wishing to protect their housing better than at present from certain types of rental, for example in older urban areas, can be removed with regard to an obligation to self-inhabit existing housing,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Dik-Faber. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-498]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u164	I have a question on the first motion. Has Mrs Dik-Faber also considered just standing under Mrs Beckerman's motion? The motions are actually requesting the same thing. The Christian Union and other parties have already made such proposals. I did it myself, but Mrs Beckerman was the first in this debate, so you stand by it. Did Mrs. Dik-Faber consider that, too?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u165	There has been contact today, but it was an incredibly hectic day. I'm just giving the honest answer, even at this time: it's just been a very hectic day. There hasn't been enough opportunity to tune the outbursts. That's just the procedural answer and that's how it was.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u166	Mr. Koerhuis.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u167	I have a question for Mrs Dik-Faber on the first motion. It is an interesting motion; I have listened carefully to the operative part. Looking at a tax reduction for starters is always interesting for the VVD. Mrs Dik-Faber is talking about a higher rate. Can this also mean, for example, that start-ups go to 0% and pension funds remain at 2%, which is higher than 0%?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u168	I would, however, like to give the Cabinet the opportunity to look into the implementation of this motion. At the same time, it was 6%. Furthermore, we are talking about transfer tax, which does not apply to new construction, but that is precisely the sector in which pension funds invest. So I guess we don't have to be so afraid of that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u169	Finally, Mr Koerhuis.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u170	We're talking about people's pensions at home. I would ask you to be careful with that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u171	In addition to Mr Nijboer's questions. I forwarded the motions to all my colleagues yesterday, but I fully understand, of course, that it is very busy and hectic. But I would like to ask whether we can see if we can get out of this together. We have made this request for debate so long ago, including with this proposal, that it is a shame to become fragmented. The invitation to stand under these two motions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u172	Of course, Mrs Beckerman can also sign my motion, but let's just see how far we get.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u173	I have the same question to the Christian Union as to GroenLinks. The proposal that is being made here also simply means that the transfer tax for corporations is increasing, and there are also corporations that take it up for other corporations by taking over homes. That's a very painful thing to do. We know how hard corporations already have it, and that's where this comes in. How does the Christian Union intend to deal with this aspect?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u174	(NL) Mr President, I was somewhat surprised by the question, because the motion on transfer tax was also co-signed by Mr Ronnes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u175	Oh. So Mr. Ronnes is asking a question about his own motion?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u176	Yes. I'd like to think about this for a while. If there's a bottleneck here, there's a hand out of me to look at it. But I think we just filed a motion together and...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u177	Then it is indeed a cup of coffee and then...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u178	I don't think I've done anything entirely right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u179	I just want to fix something, because I think something went completely wrong. I said I couldn't sign the motion after all.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u180	Then you're gonna take care of that between yourselves.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u181	We're gonna take care of this, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u182	I think so, too, but that can happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u183	This is very annoying.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u184	I'd like to get under it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u185	No, Mr. Nijboer. What are you gonna do now?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u186	The miracles of this coalition are not yet out of the world. But I would have liked to be a part of this and I think Mrs Beckerman would have liked to be a part of it. [[Sentence could not be parsed: Dus als er een probleem ...]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u187	But you can still do that. We have until Tuesday.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u188	We've got till Tuesday. We're gonna put all the motions next to each other and see who signs which motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u189	And Mrs Dik-Faber has said very clearly that it is a hectic day, also because of all kinds of other issues that are topical. So I would like to make a little sense of that, too. You've just been here, Mr. Koerhuis.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u190	A technical question. I do have a motion in front of me, Dik-Faber/Ronnes. Is there a new one being sent around that only says "Dik-Faber" underneath?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u191	I just talked about that. This is mutually agreed and coordinated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u192	I'm gonna fix this as soon as I can.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u193	Thank you very much, Mrs Dik-Faber. Finally, I will go to Mrs Van Eijs on behalf of D66.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u194	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We had a discussion in which all kinds of different means were sought and discussed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u195	Mrs Van Eijs, I just forgot about Mr Ronnes. Do you mind, Mr. Ronnes, or would you...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u196	I'll go in a minute.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u197	You may proceed, Mrs Van Eijs. Actually, it was his turn, but go on. It's okay.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u198	So we have heard all kinds of means mentioned and we have heard the Minister explain a number of things about them. That is why I have written a motion that is not so much about the means but about the purpose, which I believe we all share. That motion calls on the Minister to identify more resources. I must honestly say that I have not heard so many of them in her speech. Then there's the motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[having noted that the Minister of the Interior has conducted an investigation into the impact of investors on housing market prices;]] [[Whereas the housing market should also remain open to start-ups;]] [[calls on the Government to also reflect on how access of start-ups to the housing market remains secured,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by Mr Van Eijs. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-499]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u199	No problem, Mr. Chairman. There are two points on which I would like to come back in my second term. The first is that the Minister indicated that she was not aware of the situation in Estonia and that she was unable to return to it at the moment. The request for her simply to take a closer look at this situation and to return to it in writing, and to indicate whether such a possibility could be used in the Netherlands. That's the first thing. The second point is the Airbnb story. I've been thinking about making a motion on that. It has come out of that consideration that I want to do so. That motion, the motion co-liability platforms, among others Airbnb, and websites in violation, sounds like this. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that in other countries, as in France, it has already been established that platforms and websites that facilitate rental are jointly accountable to landlords who break the rules and that this may impose a fine on any unregistered apartment;]] [[noting that this possibility is not envisaged by the Cabinet in its intention to implement the Housing Tourist Rental Act;]] [[calls on the Government, as is the case in France, to include platforms and websites that facilitate rental themselves in cases of breach of rules, and to include the necessary rules in the proposed legislation,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by member Ronnes. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-32847-500]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u200	Investors aren't allowed on Airbnb. Mrs Beckerman is asking for a debate on this tomorrow. I think, as I said earlier, this is completely off-topic. There is also a motion by Mrs Beckerman and me on this point, a motion that is something else. I would like to have room in another debate to discuss this further, and ask Mr Ronnes to hold this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u201	I think the motion is addressed to the government, Mr. Koerhuis.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u202	Mr President, I also object to what is happening here. I think Airbnb has an impact that we see again on the Dutch housing market. It creates a price-raising effect. This makes the Netherlands attractive for investors to invest. I do not want that to happen in that way, and that is why I tabled this motion here. I think this motion is relevant.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u203	That discussion was also held during the first term. It is also not possible for a colleague to ask another colleague to hold a motion. That's really only up to the government. Perhaps in the next cabinet, Mr. Koerhuis? That you're gonna sit in the cabinet? This was the second term of office. I'm looking at the minister. I see she needs a short five-minute suspension.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u204	Before I give the floor to the Minister, Mr Ronnes wishes to correct something.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u205	Mr. Chairman. I would like to say, however, that this is a bit of confusion that I may have contributed to, that I am simply under the motion in part No. 497 freeze. This is also because it is a real research motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u206	That's good. Then that's corrected. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u207	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At the beginning of this debate, you set the bar quite high, namely on more than 50 motions one day. But I am pleased to note that that number has been reached with ease. I was asked one question. That is Mr Ronnes' question to return to Estonia's legislation. I will do so in writing. Then there's the motions. Let me begin with the first, the motion-Beckerman c.s. in piece No. 488. This calls for an adjustment of the transfer tax. In the first period of the debate, I argued what the objections might be to such a measure, namely that it would not work, that it would have an adverse effect, for example because of the taxing on the rents, and that it would entail a complex implementation problem. I have no choice but to discourage this motion, which calls for this step to be taken with this interpretation. Then the motion-Beckerman c.s. in piece No. 489. He asks for municipalities to be able to introduce a self-inhabitation scam for existing properties. I'm going to discourage this motion, but I'd like to make a commitment to the Chamber. Even though I have just expressed concerns about proportionality, I would like to explore the possibilities and the possibilities that are also attached to the obligation to live in existing construction. I want to do that in consultation with the municipalities. I'll come back to the Chamber on that. I do not recommend the motion because it immediately says that the possibility must be given, but I am happy to admit the investigation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u208	If I turn it into "calling on the government to examine whether municipalities could be given the opportunity," would the motion be given a ruling Chamber?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u209	Yes, because there are two other motions on this too. If Mrs Beckerman makes this a research motion, I'll include it in the research I'm now committed to. Mr. Chairman. The motion in part No. 490 is also a motion by Mrs Beckerman. This calls for the continuation of the housing valuation system. I advise against this motion, which will not surprise Mrs Beckerman, given my first speech. Then the motion-Nijboer c.s. in piece No. 491. That's a research motion, and I'm always trying to be sympathetic to research moves. This motion asks us to examine how landowners can be "forced" to build. Once again, I'd just like to make a commitment to an investigation. But I do not think the motion is very constructive. A municipality may withdraw the building permit in the event of non-use for a period of six months. That can stimulate builders to start construction. I don't think you can go much further. So an investigation could be on its own, but I wouldn't be very hopeful about it. And I will look at Mr Nijboer to see if he is very attached to his wording, after I have already tempered the expectations a little bit.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u210	Mr. Nijboer, how exactly is that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u211	They have been tempered, but I am, as always, very constructive in the debate. I wasn't aware of a tone that was very strange. It's all about building. So I'm willing to use this explanation... I do not know whether the wording of the motion needs to be changed completely as far as the Minister is concerned, but I am in favour of it as long as that investigation is carried out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u212	Fantastic, I think that's very constructive. Again, the expectations cannot be very high, but I am prepared to investigate whether there could be other instruments that would lead to more construction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u213	And the verdict is?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u214	Then an amended motion could get the verdict Chamber. The motion in part No. 492 is also a research motion. That motion looks at the question of how the community can benefit from the benefits of planning. That could be interesting, and I'd like to pass the verdict on the motion to the Chamber. The motion in part No. Mr Kurhuis's 493 concerns the weighting of student loans. I have just explained to Mr Koerhuis that I have looked at this carefully and asked Nibud for advice. I'm really worried about overcrediting. I've taken the Nibud's advice and I'm sticking with it. That is why I do not see much in this proposal and advise against the motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u215	Sorry, I don't understand. A motion to force landowners to go into construction receives judgment Chamber and the motion in which I ask to make it easier for ex-students and starters to buy a property is dissuaded. I don't quite understand.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u216	It's two very different motions. Moreover, Mr Nijboer has promised to redraft the motion and it is a research motion. This motion is on a very different subject. I like it. I am in favour of doing what we can to give start-ups access to the housing market, and so are those with a student debt. But we have to be real and learn from the past. We should not take risks and burden people with financial obligations that they cannot fulfil. The Nibud has taken a good look at this and issued an opinion. I want to follow that advice. I'm sticking to that point of view. The motion asks for the total weighting to be lowered to below 100%. I don't see any room for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u217	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u218	I have argued that it leads to a deduction of €60,000 from a student's mortgage. I think that's a lot.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u219	Mr. Chairman. I think I can proceed with the motion in part no. 494, also a motion by Mr Koerhuis. That motion calls for the Nibud to conduct a wide-ranging investigation and come back to this. I have just responded in terms of content. I told you the Nibud is already doing research right now. That research does it all by itself, by the way. Of course, that's the way it's supposed to be. I can promise that I will inform the Chamber when the investigation has been completed and that I will comment on how I interpret the results of the investigation in relation to the problems we have discussed. Of course, I don't want to anticipate it. I can't, because I have to rely on the expertise of the Nibud and I don't know exactly what it's gonna say. That investigation is taking place and I shall return to it. For that reason, I can leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. I shall now turn to Mr Smeulder's motion for a resolution. 495. It's tricky. I have said that there is an investigation going on, the building block investigation into the improvement of the tax system, including the taxation of rental income. But it's gonna take some time. The motion calls for proposals for the next Tax Plan, but I cannot promise that it will succeed. Perhaps Mr Smeulders can say that he wants to wait for that investigation and hold the motion until then.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u220	I do attach great importance to the motion and I would like to put it to the vote. I can make it Tax Plan 2021, but I do think it is important for the cabinet to come forward with concrete proposals. If that's a year later, then so be it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u221	I appreciate that Mr Smeulders is making this gesture, but I also want to have the opportunity and the opportunity for those who do so, including in the case of finance, to do so carefully. I am afraid to say that it is ready for the Tax Plan 2021 and also leads to proposals. My suggestion was to hold. If Mr Smeulders does not want to do so, however much I appreciate his gesture, I must, in view of the timing of this request, advise against the motion. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u222	Finally.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u223	Then we'll just keep her... Then we're not gonna arrest her, but we're just gonna put her in the mood. I am very curious to hear the opinion of the Chamber. I think there's a majority for it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u224	Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u225	The motion in part No. 496 by Mr Smeulders I could be involved in my research into the obligation to self-inhabit. With that commitment, I could give the motion judgment Chamber. The motion in part No. 497 by Mrs Dik-Faber and Mr Ronnes, if I have just understood him correctly, see also the transfer tax. We've already had another motion on that. Firstly, I referred to the consultations I had with the Secretary of State for Finance on this subject. I have raised a number of concerns about differentiation and its effectiveness and effectiveness. I have also just appointed the implementation complexity in my first term. At the same time, I understand from the debate and from what has been said that it comes back repeatedly, so I understand the underlying idea. Could I read the motion in such a way that it is not only being examined how, but also whether differentiation can be effective, effective and enforceable? I have just argued that I have doubts about this and that the cabinet is wondering. If it says not only "however" but also "or," then we could do so in that further investigation. That takes time, so the deadline in the motion is also very tight. These are two conditions which I would like to put on the cabinet side when explaining the motion. If the Chamber, pardon the authors, shares that interpretation, then I could leave the judgment on the motion to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u226	I'm gonna go talk to the co-host, and I'll get back to you on this.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u227	Okay. Mr. Koerhuis.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u228	I have a question. Mr. Ronnes just said the same thing. If the motion is not changed... I can see the clerk's nodding.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u229	Please leave the Registry out of this discussion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u230	Sorry. If it's not changed, what's the appreciation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u231	Mrs Dik-Faber said she was going to consult with the co-author.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u232	I think Mr Koerhuis wants to know: what if Mrs Dik-Faber and Mr Ronnes did not change them or if they did not agree with my interpretation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u233	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u234	Yeah, that's what he means. I have outlined conditions, conditions; it all sounds a bit harsh. I could implement it if we could add the word 'or', i.e. whether differentiation could be effective, with a wider term. Otherwise, I don't see any way to execute her. I interpret what Mrs Dik-Faber has just said in such a way that she has a kind of positive attitude, but naturally wants to discuss it. I can understand that. I assume that there is no need at all for the motion as it has now been formulated to be dissuaded, because I assume that it will lead to a motion that can be given a Chamber of Justice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u235	Good. This motion's loosening up a little bit. Mr. Nijboer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u236	That is what the debate was about, Mr President. This is the most important measure of the debate. I'd like to know what we're doing anyway. Yesterday, the cabinet sent a letter to the Chamber: it is impossible, you should not do it, it doesn't help and the rents are going up. The Minister also indicated this in the debate. So if it means that this motion is actually being dismantled by adding whether or not it is desirable, the cabinet has already reached the conclusion yesterday and today again in the debate, the Minister should simply advise against this motion. Or Mrs Dik-Faber and Mr Ronnes should not change her, because what else will we be voting on next Tuesday?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u237	I have not seen the letter sent to the Chamber by Finance, but I understand from Mr Nijboer's words that it does not contain very enthusiastic words. I would be very sorry to hear that, because my group has launched a plan this week in which this is an important measure. At the same time, I have tabled a motion here this evening and I would like to put it to the vote, but there is also the name of Mr Ronnes. That is what we agreed on today, I would add, because of the confusion there was. We submitted it together, so I really want to discuss with my co-rapporteur the suggestion made by the Minister and I shall return to that before the votes. At the same time, I said what I wanted to say about the letter from the Treasury and said what I wanted to say about our plan. That's what I have in mind.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u238	Clear. Then the motion to part No. 498.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u239	The motion in part No. 498 by Mrs Dik-Faber on the obligation to self-inhabit. I have just said that I am prepared to investigate this, and that is actually how I read this motion. There is a need for a study to see how legal barriers can be removed. That is what I really understand under the promise I have just made, and I can therefore give her a Chamber of Appeal. The motion in part No. That's the second last thing I thought, is Mrs Van Eijs' motion on access for starters. In short, I am paying attention to this and I think it is important. So I'd like to give the verdict to the Chamber. The motion in part No. 500 belongs to Mr Ronnes and sees on the platforms and websites that facilitate rental. We just talked about it in terms of content. Of course, Mr Ronnes can always ask for anything and also table motions. He's completely free to do that. I can imagine that we will have another debate on the letter I sent to the Chamber yesterday, in which I put forward a number of proposals for legislative amendments to give local authorities instruments in their hands. So that is my first suggestion: that Mr Ronnes should continue the motion for a moment so that we can really go into the depths of this particular subject of tourist rental and monitoring and enforcement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u240	Mr President, I am prepared to apprehend her.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u241	At the request of Mr Ronnes, I propose his motion (22847, No. 500). That is what is decided.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u242	Thank you very much, Mr President. That brings me to the end of the answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u243	Thank you. That is what brought us to the end of this debate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-03-13-tweedekamer-16.u244	90 motions have been tabled today. We are going to vote on the motions tabled on Tuesday. I thank the Members of Parliament and thank the Minister, the staff, the officials and the people who have followed this debate and close the sitting.
