ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-5.u1	I now give the floor to Mrs Belhaj on behalf of D66 for her question to the Minister of Defence, whom I also welcome, about Afghan interpreters who feel abandoned by the Netherlands. I call Mrs Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-5.u2	Mr. Chairman. Afghan interpreters have contributed to the security of our military and thus to the success of carrying out the military missions safely, at risk for their own lives. These people are now being abandoned, while they deserve support and protection. Mr. Chairman. D66 and others have been calling for transparent arrangements for the plight of these interpreters for a number of years. According to the Defense Department, there would be a special arrangement. An exception could be made in the asylum procedure. In practice, none of this appears to be true. In practice, no interpreter appears to be aware of this scheme. When they are at risk and knock at the Dutch embassy, they are sent away with a form and they are told that their work is done. Mr. Chairman. This is unacceptable. People who have served the Netherlands at risk for their own lives have the right to support and protect the Netherlands. DOD has an active duty of care here. We probably already know; that is what the Minister is going to answer in the near future: since the departure of the Dutch, four of the many interpreters have been murdered, some in broad daylight, under the watchful eye of their family members. Others fear for their lives and face daily death threats from the Taliban and ISIS supporters. Mr. Chairman. Can the Minister indicate how many interpreters have been deployed for the Netherlands? How many of them have been told that they can make use of the special scheme if they are directly and personally at risk? How many of them have used this? Can the Minister state if it's true that four interpreters were killed?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-5.u3	I now give the floor to the Secretary of Defense.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-5.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I begin with the fact that when we operate in difficult conditions in countries where we do not speak the language, we naturally need interpreters to have contact with people and that they also deserve protection. That is quite true, as Mrs Belhaj said. There are several interpreters. There are soldiers who interpret themselves, there are reservists who interpret and there are local people who are appointed through intermediaries, those interpreters. There is no misunderstanding that we are responsible. I totally agree with Mrs Belhaj. It assumes that there is no settlement, but following a general consultation held in your Chamber in 2014, working arrangements have been made between the State Department, the Ministry of Defence and the IND and an interpretation arrangement has indeed been made. Mrs Belhaj said that people were sent away with a form and that four people were possibly murdered; at least that is what she assumes. First of all, the message that people may have been murdered. It's awfully tragic if it is. We don't know that right now, so I can't confirm that. As a result of the messages yesterday, I gave the order to verify that, to see if we can verify that. That's what capacity is being released for, so we can figure it out. So there is an arrangement. Mrs Belhaj asks how many people have used it. It is a very specific scheme, because you normally have to apply for asylum in the Netherlands. So you have to be in the Netherlands for that. Now you can do that in Kabul if you meet the criteria. There is a questionnaire that is aligned with the IND. Just over 200 interpreters have been deployed in Afghanistan. A dozen people received asylum on the basis of the scheme. Although it hasn't been asked, I checked to see if anyone was sent away from the embassy. I just tried calling the ambassador myself, but I couldn't get him on the phone. I understand the State Department had him on the phone. The message is not known there. Anyone who reports there and who might be able to make use of the scheme should be able to make use of it. Then that must also be tested. I've been to Afghanistan myself, and I don't rule out security being a point. I really want to know, not only because of Mrs Belhaj's question, but also because of what has been in the publicity. I'll check with the embassy and the State Department on the situation. Then I can inform you about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-5.u5	I'm not gonna settle for this. The minister says we need to figure it out, but people know there's an arrangement. Turns out people don't know there's an arrangement. In countries such as Canada, Australia, Germany and Great Britain, it is absolutely clear and transparent what that rule is. Why are you not prepared to make that rule public, so that any Afghan interpreter who may wish to claim it knows what the criteria are? People who support these interpreters must know how to meet the criteria. I would ask you to act with a high degree of urgency. I believe what you're saying: I'm going to find out as soon as possible if these people were actually murdered. But every day it takes longer because you're investigating why those previous people were killed, people are in danger of being murdered. It's 200 interpreters. I believe that after the endless debates, including in this Chamber, you have an active duty of care. You need to find out where these people are now. You call them and ask them, "Do you feel safe, are you in hiding, are you at risk of being murdered?" If those answers are all "yes," you say: The Netherlands is grateful for the fact that you have allowed our military to do their work safely and we are going to actively help you with an arrangement, we will make sure you are safe, we will not have to watch your family members get killed. That's what it's about. I miss that urgency with the Minister. I would be very pleased if you would look not only at the people who may have been murdered, but also at what you are doing now for people who are in danger or who are simply literally in danger.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-5.u6	Mr. Chairman. That urgency cannot be misunderstood, it is high for the people who have worked with us. From 2014 onwards, we take photographs so that we can identify people. It's necessary. It is a procedure that is ultimately carried out by JenV and not by the Defense Department. It is our job to indicate whether the people have actually worked with us. The IND is for JenV to consider whether people are finally allowed to come here. It is not at all like Mrs Belhaj says that every country actively seeks. It is true that there are restrictions on the scheme everywhere. I've been looking into it in preparation for today. We have a duty to ensure that when people are in danger, they can make use of the scheme. People are also reminded that this arrangement exists. You now assume that 200 people are at high risk, but not everyone is at high risk. Only when they are at high risk can they enter the procedure to actually come to the Netherlands. About ten have made use of this in the past period. The scheme is about: do people feel threatened? They have to fill that out on a questionnaire. I can say something about it in public. They need to fill out a questionnaire at the embassy on the spot. Do they feel threatened, by whom, when? Did they work for us? They're checking it out. What kind of work were they? That's what they're looking at. Is that a high profile? These are all matters that are at the basis of the IND's assessment. I'd be happy to talk to Mr Harbers about it again, because I'm not going to talk about it. It's not a DOD arrangement. It's JenV's. I would like to talk to him about whether more can be made public, but that is the arrangement I just outlined here. Everyone can make use of this, and we also tell the people who work for us or who work for us through intermediaries. Not everyone works for us directly. There are also people working for us through intermediaries. So it is not the case that all 200 people are at risk, as the assumption is. You really shouldn't see it like that. We take a critical look at that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-5.u7	Finally, Mrs Belhaj.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-5.u8	This is one of those debates where I remember why I wanted to go into politics. You are talking about regulations and a form of bureaucracy, and I am talking about reality. The Nederlands Dagblad and other journalists who are actively working on this report indicate that these people are reporting. They indicate that they do not know about the existence of the scheme. They say they're afraid to be killed. That is the reality. I want you to address reality, not bureaucracy in any ministry. The debate after today is certainly not over. I will ask for a more extensive debate this afternoon, but I sincerely hope that the Minister will be prepared to make active contact with these 200 interpreters and to actively ask if these people are safe. It's the least you could do.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-5.u9	Thank you. The Minister, a brief response.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-5.u10	I do not think that the debate is ready after today either, but that it is better to put some things on paper about what we are doing, what we are doing at all, what we have done since 2014 and what we are doing about it today. Then we can talk about that further. There's never been a misunderstanding for me. For me, it's never really about regulations. I went into politics even longer ago than Mrs Belhaj, a little more in the time of the President of the Chamber. I always know it's about people, so there's no misunderstanding about that with me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-16-tweedekamer-5.u11	Thank you.
