ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u1	We will continue the debate on social support.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u2	I'll give the Minister the floor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u3	Thank you, Mr President. We got the first term last week. The Chamber asked a serious number of questions in that regard. I'd like to answer those questions as best I can. I think it would be helpful if I tried to put on a little structure first. That's a nice attempt, though. So it is the attempt to create some structure in the way in which I want to organise the response. There have been quite a lot of questions asked. I think it is a good idea to start with a block in which I go into the reason, the background of the bill and the choices we have made in the elaboration of that subscription rate. This concerns, for example, the questions related to the Council of State, the questions related to the sustainable relationship of aid, what is or is not covered? D the differences in 19 and 20 and the Ombudsman's observations. The question of how to start and pause the subscription rate is also discussed. That's a bit of the impact choices that have been made. That's the first block. The second is about the concerns you have raised: what if the municipality is not convenient? That's what most of the questions have been asked about. If the influx is such, what is the perspective of action for the municipality? So it's about the concerns about the subscription rate, the monitor we set up, what choice we made in it, the CPB estimate, the financial agreements we made and also the action perspectives: what to do if the monitor shows that the influx is much higher than expected? The third block is about implementation and implementation. I would like to mention, for example, the questions about the CAK and the question of whether the municipalities will be ready later. And then there's "How can it be otherwise "a block with varia. Finally, I would like to deal with the amendments. I think I should do that at the end. I think that's useful for the administration. Mr. Chairman. The first block. Let me start with the why and the reason for a package of measures to reduce the accumulation of healthcare costs. Everyone in the Netherlands is entitled to good care. If you look at the care in the Netherlands, you can see that we are quite a country of solidarity. That's what we're attached to, I think. If we have to tell abroad what we are most proud of in relation to our care, then it is not only about quality, but then perhaps it is also about the way we split our accounts. Young pays for old. Healthy pays for sick. That is what we think is normal, and I think we want to keep it that way. We actually have a very supportive care system. At the same time, we also know that older people and chronically ill people, in particular, are faced with a build-up of their own contributions. There are personal contributions to our care. When we look at the SCP studies, we know that, although I don't think there's any country we'd like to trade with if we're sick, there are concerns about care. Then what are these concerns about the care often about? Can we still pay for it later? Is it gonna be there for me when I need that care? We often have debates on that second question. But can I actually pay for the first question? The most urgent issue at the moment is for those who have a lot of their own payments in the care sector. Therefore, the cabinet has taken a set of targeted measures to address this concern, to reduce the accumulation of healthcare costs. Then it's about freezing your own risk for 2018. Then it is about lowering the rate that counts for the level of the own contribution in the Wlz, a marginal rate. Then it's about halving the capital income add-on in the Wlz and living protected in the Wmo. Then we are talking about the maximisation of the additional payments for medicines. And then it's about the introduction of the subscription rate. That is, of course, the subject before us today. The main reason is therefore to reduce the accumulation of healthcare costs. And why is it so effective to introduce a subscription rate in the Wmo? First of all, because it hits a pretty large group of households. It concerns some 150,000 households currently paying more than the nominal rate in the own contribution for the Wmo. About 150,000 households! That's about 34% of the total Wmo group. They are making serious progress with the introduction of the subscription rate. You're really meeting them seriously. For a single-person household under the AOW age with a moderate income, this subscription rate saves more than €100 per contribution of four weeks. That's just serious money. In addition, we can name all kinds of model households, where sometimes the weather is much more and sometimes also less. But at least it's about serious money, just for that group that needs it the most. In addition to limiting the accumulation of care costs, the subscription rate is also intended as a significant simplification of the system. That old contribution scheme in the Wmo 2015 was very complex, because you had to determine what a person's contribution income was and you had to further correct and therefore check for an excess cost. As a result, it was not only expensive and complex in its implementation, but also difficult to explain. This simplification of the system therefore has important advantages. For example, clients know in advance what they are up to. Now it's very complicated to tell clients exactly what they're up to, because you need to know all the income data first. This may also lead to negative surprises in the current situation. Of course, the risk of errors is also greatly reduced if you do it this way. It is also a saving in implementation costs. The estimate is that some 15 million could be saved at the CAK at the time we start working on this scheme. In short, it has many advantages. Stepping up the cost of care comes first, but also the considerable simplification, and thus much less execution costs and much less insecurity among clients, is also an important advantage. What choices did we make in that? From 2020 onwards, the introduction of a subscription rate of €19 per month will be fully realised through this law. We've actually made an intermediate step in 2019.I'll be there for a while, but it will only be fully realized in 2020. Then it also goes from four weeks to a month, so from €17.50 to €19. In any case, we will apply this subscription rate to the customised services. In addition, it will apply to some of the general provisions. This is therefore about that part of the general provision in which there is a lasting relationship of assistance. I shall come back to that definition in detail in a moment, because quite a lot of questions have been asked about it. For all provisions covered by the subscription rate, regardless of whether they are customised or general provisions, clients pay a total of €19 per month. Mrs Hermans' first question was: can there still be a separate contribution for general provisions, which are not covered by the subscription rate? The answer is yes, you can. A euro can still be requested for a cup of coffee on the daily run. The subscription rate is a maximum rate and therefore it remains possible to stay below. The minimum regulations are therefore also possible. That was a question from Mrs Hermans, among others, but I also thought of Mrs Ellemeet. I will come back to this lasting relationship of aid, because first of all that question from the Council of State is very fundamental. That question is: have alternatives actually been considered? That is the question that Mr Hijink asked. It is true that alternatives were possible, but they did not become alternatives. For example, we have looked at the introduction of an anti-cumulative scheme for own risk Zvw, the own contribution Wmo and the own contribution Wlz. But that is not the case, because the implementation is so incredibly complex. It also requires so many information flows that we have said: we should not do that. It also encounters serious privacy concerns. An alternative in which people should apply for the anti-cumulation procedure leads to a great deal of regulatory pressure on people and therefore has the real risk of non-use. The subscription rate allows customers who have to deal with a pile-up of care costs to be reached much more precisely. The overlap between the number of people who belong to the target group of the subscription rate and at the same time its own risk is perfect or partly perfect is 94%. That is a rather solid correlation and we are sure that this money is well spent. In addition, a number of you, including Mr Van der Staaij, have pointed out another point of criticism of the Council of State. He asked whether it would not have been appropriate, in the context of the decentralisation idea, not to take it on as a Empire, but to leave it to municipalities to make choices in it. I do not think so, because if we look at how the own contribution system is now in the law, it is also a national scheme. You can lower as a municipality, but you can't go higher. In fact, the entire income-dependent contribution to the finesses up to income tables and so on is all government policy. One could say: the Wmo has decentralised many tasks to the municipalities, but the own contribution scheme has never been a decentralised scheme. That has always been just a state policy and has always been a state policy in the law. On this point, I do not agree with the Council of State, because the only thing we are amending with this bill is that part. We're not gonna change anything in the contents of the Wmo. We also do not prejudice the content and space that municipalities have. What we do is the way we arrange our own payments in that Wmo. There was an arrangement for that and we are now putting in place a new arrangement for that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u4	Let me ask you a question about this. It is not true that municipalities are asking for exactly the same own contribution per income group? Or was I misinformed? I thought that was different from one city to another. I heard from some municipalities that they have a rather rapid increase in their own contribution from a certain income. But that's not true, is it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u5	It's maximized, so you could be underneath it. You can do something in the normative rate you ask for per customization. You can do something about that. So you can turn on the button of what people actually pay, but it is maximized. So that there is an income-dependent own contribution is maximized.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u6	As far as decentralisation is concerned, I read in the opinion of the Council of State that 'after the introduction of the subscription rate', the Council of State, 'the municipality has fewer possibilities to keep the Wmo financially manageable'. I do not think that the reasoning is right, in my view, that this is contrary to decentralisation, but it does mean freedom of action, freedom to take all kinds of measures, including to make it financially manageable. And with this bill, you're limiting it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u7	I do not think that is the case, because we are actually leaving the same possibilities open, where perhaps our own payments were also a brake to appeal to the municipality at all. It is true that something is changing there, also because we know that there was a lack of care. Some of you have said this, and Mrs Ellemeet in particular has pointed this out. In part, this arrangement will lead to influx. You want that too, because there is now non-use in people who might actually need it, but who do not use it because there is a contribution of their own that can be substantial. This bill changes nothing but the own contribution scheme. The municipal possibilities that already exist in the law simply remain the same. I will come back to the question as to what the prospects for action would be if that influx was higher than expected. I'll get to that in the next block. But I think there is another way of looking at this, let me put it this way. We have said that tailor-made services should be included in the subscription rate anyway. Could you just leave it at that? No, we said at the time, because that would mean from the client's perspective that there is something that doesn't make any sense. In that case, the mere fact that a municipality has decided whether something is a tailor-made provision or a general provision would determine the extent to which it counts for the subscription rate and the extent to which it is covered by the subscription rate. We've thought that doesn't make any sense. You have to want to look up the logic from the client's perspective. Another logic would be for you to fully fall under the subscription rate, i.e. both the customization and the general provision. That too is not entirely logical, for example because it is simply impossible. There is a huge variety of general amenities. It goes from running-in day-to-day provision to you name it; everything is in the form of general provision. It would therefore mean that you would have to keep track everywhere of what is paid for coffee and so on, for example, because it will require a maximum of €19. This would lead to an enormous bureaucratic burden. And why? Actually, nothing, and actually that's just not such a sensible arrangement. In addition, there are quite occasional things in the Wmo, which you occasionally use. For example, if you go to the mall once a month with the neighborhood bus, it would be a bit illogical if you had to pay €17.50 for it, because it would be a very expensive neighborhood bus. For that money, you can take a taxi. So that doesn't make any sense either. In particular, the occasional use you should want to leave out. But everything you could describe as a "sustainable aid relationship".........................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u8	I understand that it is now regulated by looking at whether there is, on average, a sustainable relationship in the provision of care.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u9	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u10	But now, of course, there are also people who find it difficult to get caught up in averages.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u11	That's right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u12	For these people, the situation could be slightly different. That's what we're worried about. Can we still deal with these people well enough? Does the Minister recognise this concern and how does he intend to deal with it?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u13	I know that concern because I've heard the sounds about it. And at the same time I think that in the essence of the Wmo it is precisely decided that the municipality has the legal mandate to come up with customization, to come up with an appropriate solution in every individual situation. So whether it is a customization or a general provision, you always come back to the question of whether this is an appropriate solution. I think that municipalities themselves should decide which part of the facilities they will be included in the tailor-made provision and which part of the general provision. Initially, there was a fear that this might lead to more general provision being made because of the subscription rate. That is why we have said that this also applies to the general provisions in which there is a lasting relationship between aid and aid. Even so, of course, you could have something that's a little bit on the dividing line. I have a few things to say to that. First of all... Imagine if you didn't come out. Suppose, for example, that you use a general provision and that your own contribution to that general provision is such that you would not be able to pay it. At that point, the conversation should be about whether that is a suitable solution for you or for you. In the end, you always have the opportunity to apply for customization. Second. We have referred to the sustainable relationship of aid in the law, and in the explanatory statement we have also referred to the sustainable relationship of aid. We are doing so now, as we are having this debate, because that is all part of the legal history. In the end, however, this choice will also have to be made at local level. I think it would be wise to work together with the UNG so that, in the future, if the regulations are amended, we can sit down with municipalities to see what dilemmas there are and how we could deal with them. This is the best guidance we can give right now. I have just outlined the dilemmas that have led to this and why we have come up with this. There is always a legal guarantee for people if their own contribution to a general provision would result in it no longer being an appropriate provision. In addition, we must help the municipalities to develop in the coming period.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u14	Luckily, that guarantee was already there. But I am concerned about this, precisely because it may be a vulnerable group. I am talking, for example, about the appropriate daily spending and daily spending activities. Some people need a lifetime of daily spending to support their lives. This could turn out to be negative for that particular group. It will be a general provision, of which the municipality will indicate in general terms: there is no sustainable relationship between aid workers. But it could be different for this group. I hear what the Minister says, but the whole idea of the subscription rate is precisely to accommodate vulnerable groups. They may fall out of the boat at this point. I think it's a little careful.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u15	The daily use is a good example of why it is not so easy to put this into law. Imagine if we were to say: we put the daily spending in the law as part of the subscription rate. There are daily spendings in a lot of forms. You have daily spending in the form of an Alzheimer's Café or in the form of a walk-in facility for people with an addiction. These are the more incidental day-to-day spending facilities. But there are also the examples that you describe, where Mr or Mrs goes to daily consumption every Tuesday and Thursday morning. In the latter case, I would say: yes, that is a lasting relationship of aid workers and so it is part of the subscription rate. But in that first case I would say: no, that is more of an occasional form of daily spending. That is not something we could dictate nationwide. What we can do is to help municipalities complete the choice of whether or not something is covered by the subscription rate. Is there a lasting relationship between aid workers or not? In any case, what we have as bail, I think that is very important is the legal mandate to municipalities to always make it possible for people to apply for a tailor-made provision. Imagine that your own contribution would be too high for people, because it's outside the subscription rate. The municipality is then obliged to offer the provision in a tailor-made facility, if appropriate care is involved.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u16	Let's continue on this last point. I believe that we must prevent people from having to regain their rights, appeal again, object and go to court. We've had a lot of discussions about what "usual care" is. It would be nice if we could avoid that with this debate. I understand that there must be some freedom, but still the question of what this'sustainable aid relationship' is. The Minister states that it should not be incidental. You can have a discussion about that, because do people have to go very often, or is it also the case when they go periodically? That's the kind of discussion you get. I would like to ask the Minister to explain this a little more. Would it not also be important to point out that this is something that is specialised, for example? "Incidentally" sounds a bit less often than "periodic," I say.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u17	I can see what's bothering you, the dilemma you're sketching. We also had this same dilemma at the design table. You want the group that relies on such a provision to make regular use of it. We see that as part of the subscription rate. At the same time, the subscription rate should help people, not the wrong way. If you go anywhere once a month, once a quarter or once a year, you are not helped with a subscription rate. Then you'll probably be helped with just your own contribution for the coffee or whatever at the time you're there. If you use a transport facility once a month, occasional transport, it is better if it is outside. We have finally come to terms with the concept of'sustainable aid relationship' because we believe that this is the closest thing to what we are looking for. If you call it the "specialised aid relationship," it clearly demands the type of aid that is provided. And what is specialized and what isn't? You'll get into definition issues pretty soon. In fact, our conclusion has been that the first thing we have to do is not simply distinguish between customization and general provision. That is not the striking distinction when it comes to the question of who it should be for and who it should not be for. We need to come up with a different definition: tailor-made provision anyway, and that part of the general provision where this sustainable aid relationship is involved. Furthermore, it must take shape in regulations. That will, of course, help us to find the precision in it. That's what we do with the VNG. There are undoubtedly many examples that we have not yet thought of. It's always like that. The art is to solve it as well as possible, and we will facilitate it. As I have just said to Mrs Ellemeet, there is always a guarantee that, if a general provision is not adequate, it will be possible to move towards a tailor-made provision.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u18	But what is "sustainable" is of course personal as well. I have a subscription at the library. I go more often, but what if I go twice a year? Still, I think I have a lasting relationship with the library. It is also important in the question of what to mean by "sustainable" to move into the clients, so that they do not have to engage in that discussion. I can see some movement in this debate. You spoke first, I say through the chairman, of 'incidental', but now you are talking about'some regularity'. I translate that again as a "periodic" and I see that again as "sustainable." This is all part of the legal process, so I would like to ask the Minister to be more specific about what he means by a'sustainable aid relationship'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u19	I was about to do an exorcism: I have a subscription at the gym, but if you see how low-frequency I use it, you should actually call it more of a donation; I get there occasionally. I would have said that this should not be included in the subscription rate. But that's not what our gym does. So I understand your question very well. There is a limit to the precision with which the question can be answered from this house, I think. If we pursue more precision, it will become less functional and we will probably not do exactly what we all want, namely to see the implementation of the law through the eyes of clients. That's what this is about. With that notion on the retina, we have looked at this execution: not only the customization facilities, but also a part of the general provisions, not all of them, because that does not help clients. So we have to look at it from the point of view of the clients. Then we have that part of the customization that you use somewhat structuralally, which you really rely on, that is really a response to the care question you went to the municipality with. That concern question is simply judged by the municipality as it is always judged. The question is: what is your concern? Can you fix it in your own network? What could you possibly mean yourself? Is this a common form of support, or do you really need the help of the municipality? If the answer to that last question is yes, then in principle you have a legal right to that support. Then it will be checked whether it is covered by the subscription rate. Whether or not it is covered by the subscription rate does not, therefore, depend on whether it is a tailor-made provision or a general provision. In any case, it applies to a tailor-made provision and to all the other provisions which refer to what we have called a'sustainable aid relationship'. This will have to be specified in a regulation, since different types of WMO support are being purchased in different municipalities. We cannot therefore draw up a long list of what is and is not covered; that is impossible. This is specified in a regulation at municipal level. Local councils have a say in this. Local Councils are likely to also involve client organisations. But whatever we do, I have just said that in the direction of Mrs Ellemeet, we are working together with the UNG to support municipalities.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u20	The minister has no lasting aid relationship with the gym.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u21	That's what you remembered from this answer?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u22	I think people who listen to this debate remember that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u23	I think more clarity is needed about the daily spending. I find it very difficult to explain to people that if you go to daily spending regularly, weekly, periodically or in any event, you are covered by the subscription rate, but that may not apply in an occasional case. I think it is very important that people who receive family care at home, for example from a partner, can simply go to day work if that partner is sick and can give less care for a month, and that they do not have to pay the top price. Maybe it already is; then I just didn't get it right. But is it the case that people who make use of the same facility once, a few times a year or no matter how often, that is unpredictable, will never pay more than that €19 per month? Or am I wrong about that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u24	It depends a little bit on it, but in the example you give, I assume that someone with a tailor-made provision in that month who stays in the hospital, for example, can simply go to a day's spending. In this case, this is probably just a customised provision. But if there is the community center on the corner, where you occasionally walk in and where the cost, the own contribution you have to pay, is the euro for the cup of coffee, then again it doesn't make any sense to catch that under the subscription rate. I think we should always have the client's perspective in mind. In the first mode of your example, it makes sense, because that is probably about a reasonable cost. That day-to-day spending is probably just indicated day-to-day spending. In the second case, it is precisely about a very low cost and it will only become more expensive if it is covered by the subscription rate. So you have to look at it from the client's point of view, I think. That makes it so difficult to draw up a list nationally, because the implementation procedures and what is appropriate in an individual situation are not easy to look at from here. It is precisely the task of municipalities to achieve this together with clients and their relatives.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u25	I couldn't agree more. I am only concerned that we can agree here, or at least let the municipalities know, that one cannot be expected to pay a lot more than the other for the same form of daily spending. Everybody gets that cup of coffee. I am concerned that, if you occasionally call on the daily expenditure, for example because the household care has fallen temporarily, you are not going to pay much more that the subscription rate of €19, which is always the maximum. That's all I care about.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u26	That's right. In the case of customization, that will be the case, yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u27	A great deal has now been said about sustainable aid relations, implementation methods and periodic versus occasional. Is following how municipalities implement this and how it works, in the monitor?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u28	Yes. I'll be at the monitor in a minute. It's absolutely in there. I shall come back to that in detail. There is a great concern here, for example with client organisations. Initially, the concern was: o, but it could be that some of the tailor-made facilities are shifted towards general facilities. That's why it's important to make that part of the monitor. However, there were more concerns about it, also about how municipalities deal with the definition issue, so we have included it in the monitor. Mr. Chairman. I think I've had the most important questions with this, but I'll check it out. No, because Mrs Bergkamp, for example, asks whether house adjustments, such as a toilet adjustment, are also covered by that subscription rate. The answer is yes, because that is actually a tailor-made provision. How can you subscribe to a toilet, you'd say. This has to do with the fact that the own contribution should never exceed the cost. In the end, that will not happen. Then it will be a subscription rate for so many months until the cost is set.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u29	So you're saying that increasing the toilet is always customized and therefore standard part of the subscription rate?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u30	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u31	Okay, clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u32	Yeah, I guess I've had the most important questions right now. I move on to the next sub under the first block and that's the difference in '19 and '20. A number of questions have been asked in response to the letter from the National Ombudsman, which says: in 19 there is a lack of clarity, because domestic aid is now covered by the subscription rate in some municipalities and not in some municipalities. That's right. The background to this is precisely the distinction between tailor-made services and general services. There are a number of municipalities which have made domestic aid part of the general provision. We have already decided to take a step towards reducing the accumulation of healthcare costs, after consulting the Chamber on this matter. We could only do that on a tailor-made basis. Indeed, in order to do so, some of the general provisions require a change of law. The hook that is now in the law to do something about these own contributions at AMvB was only about customization. We couldn't break that line. I do see what the effect of this is, namely that if the coincidence in practice is that municipalities have opted for a general or a tailor-made provision with certain support, then you get something that is difficult to explain to people. So I fully sympathise with what the Ombudsman has found. We knew it before. There are also lessons to be learned from this: Mrs Luck, Mr Segers, Mr Kerstens and Mr Geleijne. We have already taken that lesson with the bill, namely that you can leave it not only with customised services, but that you also have to include some of the general provisions in the subscription rate, because otherwise it is impossible to explain. We had this clarified on the website of the CAK and on Rijkssoverheid.nl. From 2020 onwards, we will be clear of this ambiguity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u33	Excuse me, but just a moment about the previous point. We were just talking about raising the toilet. That would be custom-made and would therefore be covered by the subscription rate. There are municipalities that say: we do not reimburse it; we do not see it as customisation or provision. Does the Minister think that that is possible, that that is a correct interpretation? Or is there an omission in that, looking at the municipalities that deal with it like that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u34	It's about an individual situation, so it's at the risk of me sitting on the judge's seat: I would think the following, just looking at the law. Suppose you come to a municipality, need support to stay home longer and need a number of home adjustments. One of those house adjustments may be that you need to adjust your toilet or that brackets need to be screwed into the wall. There are all kinds of variants conceivable. The municipality will then have the same conversation as the conversation she always has, namely: can you do it yourself or is there someone in the network who can do something for you? If that is not the case, so if it is a legitimate question in the direction of the municipality, then the municipality will indeed have to make that adjustment. Yeah, that just seems to me to flow from the law. This debate is often about tools and what is "a common provision." That's what the discussion is about a lot. For example, it's about a walking stick. Is that a Wmo facility or is that just something people buy from a certain age? It is very clear that the latter is the case. So that's not necessarily a WMO facility. Then the subscription rate and the pause of the payment, the pause of the own contribution. That question was raised by Mr Hijink in particular. That's not such an easy question at all, because I understand it very well. On that point, too, you want a certain clarity and predictability to come from when you pay and when you don't pay. I'll get to the amendment in a minute, but I'll do it all the way to the end. You also said that you would like to settle this by default. I understand that wish very well. We can see that at the moment there are quite some differences between municipalities about when an own contribution is started or stopped and that these differences are not properly explained at all. We are already in agreement with the municipalities that we are going to work towards greater clarity with regard to "start" and "stop." I do not rule out that at some point we will also have to record that in an AMvB. We have deliberately chosen not to do so before 1 January 2020, because it could be so complex in its implementation that it might slow down the legislative proposal as a whole. So we have said: municipalities simply do this in their own regulation, as municipalities have just regulated it in their own regulation now, but we are working together with municipalities to make it more unambiguous in the definitions. When do you start and when do you stop? In order to be able to record this at any time, for example in an AMvB. That's one. Two. Mr. Hijink's question was especially when you could press "pause." I just had to do an exorcism on the point of the amendment on the gym. The idea behind the amendment is precisely that the payment goes through and that there is a less linear link between the care provided and the payment. Mr Hijink probably says: if during the summer holidays a provider cannot deliver because of staff issues during the holiday period, as it turned out last year, is it weird that you then have to pay? Yeah, I get that. Then it is indeed weird that you have to pay for it, but we also have continuity when people are on holiday or when people say: I don't really want a replacement during the holiday, because I just want my regular help; if it comes back from vacation, it's fine and I'll do a few weeks without help. Then I find it less logical to press the pause button. So here too, I think that we should look with municipalities to see if we can achieve more clarity, but I would not like to argue at this time, but in my view, next year, that this should be laid down in the law. I could imagine that, at some point, there could be some kind of provision that would work everywhere, in every municipality. I am afraid to anticipate whether this will also be possible with regard to 'pause'. So I think we should just leave this to the municipalities for a while.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u35	In my view, we are talking about the same thing, namely the holiday periods in which the provider does not deliver, which means that people are actually put in the cold and then have to pay their own contribution. I don't think anyone wants that. The minister says we're gonna settle that at a later date by AMvB. All of that is fine with me, but if I am right, this AMvB will not be submitted to the Chamber in advance. It seems to me a good idea that we can discuss this here. Then I can freeze that amendment for a while as far as I am concerned. If that's how we're gonna do it, I don't mind doing it later.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u36	I think that's totally fine. That makes sense to me, too. Okay. Then I've had the first block, with the impact questions and the why. Then the second block. In my opinion, that was the core of everyone's input in the first period. It was about: if municipalities start to work and if it turns out that there is such a trend towards WMO facilities that it is difficult for a municipality to manage, what will happen then, could it ultimately lead to a loss of facilities? You have asked these questions, and I have noticed in recent months that municipalities have asked these questions and that I have not been able to take that concern away from municipalities. I have, of course, indicated, and I will do so here today, that I actually hope for a certain influx and a certain inflammatory effect. One of the reasons for moving to that subscription rate is precisely that the current own contribution system for low middle income, for example, is also a reason to abandon it. I don't mind a few more people taking advantage of it. Would the millionaire who now pays his maid herself, and has actually done so his whole life, suddenly go banging on the door of the town hall? That doesn't make any sense to me. In fact, I find that very illogical. At the same time, I have noticed, and I have heard this in your first term, that I do not manage very well to take that concern away in advance, because I cannot prove that it will be all right. It's an assessment. I can base myself on the CPB's assessment of the suction action. That is why we have said: if we are going to do this, we must keep our finger on the wrist very carefully; we must make sure that we know exactly what is happening in reality. What's the behavior that municipalities want to show? What is the actual influx that will be seen in practice? So we have to make a really good monitor to keep the finger on the wrist. I have now reached agreement on this monitor with the VNG and with client organisations Elke(in) and ANBO. This monitor will identify the extent to which, as a result of the subscription rate, there is a higher than expected use of WMO facilities, i.e. numbers and costs, which are not sufficiently reduced by municipal policy. From the perspective of clients and municipalities, the monitor pays attention to the quantity and quality of support. The monitor will also address the behaviour of clients and any external and autonomous factors. How did municipalities implement the measure? How were and were the indication and access organised within the municipality? What steps did the clients go through? In what way do municipalities implement the assessment and promotion of self-reliance of applicants? How are the Wmo consultants instructed? What other policy adjustments have the municipalities made with regard to the Wmo? In short, with that monitor we can see how local practice changes or does not. I think this is the only way to take care away. I can't take these out front. We can agree a way of working with each other, to keep our finger on the pulse and put that implementation practice first.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u37	The Minister does not want to worry about any additional costs and what happens then, whether extra care will be taken, but he is also saying that he cannot remove them from the front. He can, because with this amendment he also makes it possible for the standard of usual care to be extended or for municipalities to return to an income-dependent own contribution. So he could take those cares away and in advance, take that possibility away from the front.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u38	I don't think so. By the way, both elements will be reflected in my story. I honestly don't think so. We do not allow for an income-dependent contribution. That doesn't make any sense either, because we're getting income dependency out of the law. Mrs Luck referred to this in particular. The Wmo is never meant to be a "poverty law." I believe you used that term. In my opinion, this term has already been used in the original treatment of the Wmo in 2006 or 2007. And that's right; the Wmo has never been a law on poverty or a law on poverty. You can see that especially lower incomes have made the most use of the Wmo. I think you mean, what about the AMvB possibility that comes into the law? I'll get back to you on that later. I would be pleased if I could answer this question at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u39	No, I do not think so, because the Minister is now going into it very extensively and says that the answer to that concern is the monitor. But that's an option after all. The Minister has just made it very clear that he does not have any possibility of removing these concerns on the front. He does have that concern; it's about the AMvB. So that really belongs in the context of what he's saying right now. I would therefore ask the Minister to take out the possibility of making arrangements at the front.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u40	I don't think that's a good idea. I can see if I can help in my speech; then I come to the answer to Mrs Agema's question. I think it is about the question: what if the monitor shows that the actual influx is much higher than was expected, which also means that the expenditure is much higher than they were originally? I think that at that point we will have to take action. Indeed, in order to enable measures to be taken, let me put it this way, we have put this AMvB option in the law. What you are actually asking me is: what could you put under that AMvB and is it also conceivable that you will introduce an income-dependent scheme under that AMvB? I say to you: that does not seem logical to me, and it does not make any sense for two reasons. You're just abolishing it; with the introduction of the subscription rate you're actually abolishing it. But it doesn't make any sense either because it means that you have to put up with a very large implementation device that manages to keep up with that income dependency. And that's exactly what we're gonna get off this time of year. Does anything change with regard to the usual care? No. The phenomenon of "commonly used provision" is already in the law and is already in all kinds of case law on rulings relating to applications for Wmo. The only thing we are doing here is providing a codification of it. So this law doesn't fundamentally change anything there either. Actually, something only changes on the side of one's own contribution. The question is: if you have a monitor, what possibilities do you have to act on it later? That is the willingness I am now expressing to take action at that time. I do not anticipate the question of what measures these are.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u41	Yes, sorry, chairman...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u42	The interruptions actually go in two, but I understand that...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u43	But the Minister answers very widely. He needs to come a little more to the point.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u44	A brief reaction.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u45	It is still a question of what happens when the scheme is very popular. What if it bursts financially? What's that? First, the Minister says, "I can't help it in advance." Then I will say to the Minister: yes, but you can do something about that in advance, because you want to bring an AMvB with this amendment so that something can happen if that arrangement bursts out financially. Then I say, "But you shouldn't do that if you don't want people to be afraid of it." And then the Minister says, "I'll get back to you later." What is at stake, of course, is to say in ordinary human language that people can understand. It is to say that the Minister wants a solution to be found within the scheme if this arrangement is to burst financially. And I fundamentally disagree with that. After all, the VWS Ministry has a structural surplus of 10.5 billion euros in the period 2012 to 2021 due to windfalls. Then it must be possible, at a time when a scheme such as this bursts out of it, to find a solution, which is indeed for the first time not dependent on income, with all those windfalls rather than in the scheme which will eventually take care away from the people again?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u46	Knowing that we're not going to take that concern completely away from the front, we deliberately decided to create a monitor. If you're not willing to do anything with the results of that monitor, you shouldn't want to do a monitor at all. We deliberately chose to do a monitor. You may also conclude that, should the scheme fail, there is a willingness to do something with the results of that monitor at that time. That could be different things. They may be substantive measures and they might even be financial measures, but there is a reason why I am not getting ahead of them now. I believe that it is up to the municipalities to implement this regulation in an appropriate way. If I said in advance that we would fit in, that would be the best guarantee of exceeding the regime. So that doesn't seem like the way to go. It's about whether you're willing at any time to let the implementation practice lead you to want to change something. My answer to that question is simply: yes, I am prepared to do so. But I do not anticipate what measures we are taking at that time. Could these also be financial measures? Yeah, we could do that by then.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u47	I'm... I'm... I'm... I'm... I'm... I'm... Mrs Agema says that this is the point for her in this law. So I'm gonna allow her another interruption.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u48	I will not interrupt after this interruption either, Mr President. I want to take the step to higher politics right now. The Minister states: I'm not going to do that now, I'm not going to take action until after the monitor. But this morning we saw his colleague Koolmees of Social Affairs and Employment, who is already arranging a majority in the Lower House for his plans in the Upper Chamber when it comes to the Pension Act. So the Minister cannot say now: I am introducing the regulation, I am introducing the law, I come with a monitor and then we are going to see how we are going to adjust things. We are talking here in the Chamber about the left or the right.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u49	Your point?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u50	My question to the Minister is as follows. In what way will the Minister adjust if this arrangement breaks out? Is he going to do that through the method of GroenLinks, so income dependency, or is he going to do that about right-wing with the PVV, i.e. supplementing from the windfalls? That is a choice that the Minister must make here and not just at the end of the journey.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u51	Clear. That was a small addition by Mrs Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u52	Thank you, also for the way in which the question has been asked. In fact, up to now, I have been living on the assumption that I was debating this wonderful proposal on the subscription rate by a large majority. In the end, of course, you will make the choice where you vote in favour or where you do not vote in favour. I think we really need to do it along the line of content. Its content is a system which fully meets the income situation of chronically ill and disabled people. I do not think that anyone is doing anything about it, and I do not think that is the controversial part of the bill either. Where in the first term of your Chamber there is the care, a concern that I have also tasted in the municipalities, is that the scheme is so attractive that it could easily be that the progress towards it is greater than expected and what this means for the municipalities. Next comes the care about the gap around the corner. There are different perspectives for this. Of course I can put on the other side that I think it's not that bad. Of course I can put it on the opposite side: look at the CPB estimate, that will be really not so bad. Of course, when it comes to client organisations that are concerned about it, I can put it on the other side: municipalities have and have a legal mandate to apply individual tailor-made work to which they are also approachable. So it doesn't make sense at all when you look at how the law is built. However, I have noticed in all the discussions I have had so far that I have not been able to take care of it, even in the light of your contribution in the first term. Not only from the opposition, but also from the coalition, I have heard those sounds. That is why I am pleased that we have decided to come up with a monitor that is going to give a very precise picture of the implementation practice. That is really the possibility to keep the finger on the wrist, and not one finger but, given the extension of the monitor, ten fingers on the wrist. That offers the opportunity to say with the results of that monitor: and now what? Then, of course, the follow-up question is: what will you choose? That is the question you are asking. You have a concern whether I would choose income dependency. Of this, I say in advance: that is not very logical, because we are abolishing this income dependency. So you're gonna have to put up a whole implementation device again, put up a very complicated arrangement to go back to income dependency. Municipalities can't just make income-dependent choices, because you don't know what the income of people in your congregation is. In short, you will have to settle that nationwide with income data from the Tax Administration, et cetera. So that's as complicated as it is right now. That is one of the reasons why we should abandon it. So is that a logical measure at the time? My answer is: no, that is not a very logical measure at the time. Then the follow-up option in your multi-choice menu is: more money. That's not out of the question. But it is also not a logical choice to say now: that seems fine to me. Because that just depends on what comes out of the monitor. It is, of course, about the fact that municipalities use their opportunities to have the right conversation with the people who call for municipal support. And that's no different than now, you could say. At the same time, a municipality may feel more compelled to do so at a time when expenditure in the Wmo is increasing significantly. It's possible. Do I then exclude financial measures at a time when there is a much greater recourse to this scheme? No, I'm not ruling that out. But I do want to be able to look at that in that context at the time. And I'm not going to anticipate that either.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u53	I had to dig what was the question again, because we have heard a lot of speeches from the Minister. But let's get back to the core. The Minister states: we simply do not yet know exactly how it is going to develop. I think that's the honest answer. An estimate of the influx around the subscription rate has been made, and an estimate has been made by the CPB. We have also seen that the first estimate was quite different from the second estimate which, I think, confirms once again that it is simply very difficult to establish. The Minister also points out that we rigged that monitor. This includes both quantitative and qualitative information. I do think that we need both kinds of information to indicate the influx. That's what the congregations assume, and that's what I get. I have already spoken in the first period of time about the care of the municipalities. 97% of all members present at the VNG meeting voted in favour of a motion against the subscription rate. Those that cause it to lead to an influx, are widely shared among the municipalities. The minister says: well, I still have to see it; is the millionaire going to use such a subscription rate? We also know of other forms of care that are now financed from the Wmo, for example. I refer to help in dyslexia that the richer postal codes, the prosperous postal codes, use such facilities intensively. So we should not be too naive about that, we should be aware that some people with extra luggage are able to find those facilities. Well, that said...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u54	I'll take a look at the time. It's 4:00. The debate is scheduled for 6 p.m. So your interruptions really need to be shorter.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u55	Sure, but this is the most important point. This is something we need to be reassured on. Where did these concerns come from? These are caused by the fact that the Minister's previous answer to questions put by all the political groups has not yet been made as explicit as the Minister is now doing. Financial measures are not excluded. It is not a licence for declarations of intent, which would also be crazy, and I do not argue for that either, but we must take a serious look at the causes and make a good analysis of the influx. Then it may be that we have to acknowledge together that the first estimate that has been made is simply not sufficient. The Minister has already said it, but this is a very important point. If I put it that way, does the Minister agree with this interpretation of the use of the monitor?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u56	Sure. For the sake of time, I will not repeat everything I have just said in my own speech, but we are not doing that monitor for nothing. We do that monitor to take care that this leads to something priceless or even to distortion. By the way, I find it strange when municipalities say this, because the same municipalities sit at the table to make those choices. It does not lead to any other claim to municipal support. This only changes the own contribution scheme, but it could be. It is precisely to know by that time which measure you have to take, whether that is a substantive measure or a financial measure or a combination of the two measures that can be done, that we have set up a very thorough monitor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u57	The fact that there is so much doubt among municipalities and even some mistrust of this law naturally stems from what has happened in the past. Here in The Hague, policies are made in the context of decentralisation. Municipalities need to take on more tasks. They are given tasks by the Empire and do not receive enough money for that. That's the doubt there is now. I understand that a lot of administrators in municipalities say: very well that their own contribution is going down; we are actually very much in favour of that. However, the Council of State, like the municipalities, the SP and many other parties, says: be careful not to get into the situation that this measure will lead to less revenue for municipalities, while they will have to do more with less money, which generally means that the cheese bowl is about the facilities. I think it is important for the Minister today to stress that he too believes that this should never be the result of this law. The lowest incomes, which are the ones who make the greatest use of the Wmo, should not be the victims of this law. We really need that statement today.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u58	I think I can agree with what you're saying. The Wmo offers guarantees. First of all, the Wmo obliges municipalities to carry out careful research when someone reports for Wmo support. If it turns out that a client is dependent on it, and therefore depends on the support of the municipality, there is an obligation for the municipality to provide that support. That support must also be appropriate once again, both in terms of the own contribution and in terms of size. In short, that's how the law works. So the concern about divergence, to use that word for a while anyway, it wasn't my own term "b" has at least as an answer that it is special when municipalities themselves express that concern, because municipalities of course know that they also have to abide by the law. That law means that an appropriate tailor-made solution must always be provided after research has been carried out at the time when someone bangs for support on the door of the town hall. At the same time, I see that I do not take that concern entirely away from the municipalities or from you. That is also why we deliberately opted for a monitor. The easiest solution might be to add money, but I find that weird. I don't think it's necessary in advance either. So we said we're gonna do a monitor. We want to see what happens in the implementation practice. Nor should we in advance remove the incentive from municipalities to make serious work of it. If we were to do that, if we were to say 'fine, then we are going to compensate', we would, of course, take away any incentive. That would also be strange, because municipalities themselves always want to be able to decide in their entirety what they do with the total budget of the Municipal Fund and how they want to make those choices, also given the legal obligation on municipalities. They're right about that, too. That is why that would not make any sense. That's why we said we're gonna monitor it. Then there is the question that Mrs Agema provoked and which you all asked: are you prepared to get on your feet if that monitor shows you have to? Yeah, or we wouldn't have started that monitor in the first place. In addition to the substance, could this be even financial measures? Yeah, but I'm not getting ahead of myself. I don't run away from it when I have to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u59	Mr. Hijink, briefly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u60	That commitment is important. So the minister says he doesn't run away from it if he needs to. I have to think about those articles in the Volkskrant this morning, about the situation in Eindhoven, where people who need domestic help and who also get that help are asked to clear the cabinets, because then you can brush faster, where domestic help is no longer allowed to look in the refrigerator because it is no longer part of the tasks. These are also measures that the municipality can reduce costs, but that is not the type of measures I am waiting for. I hope the Minister is not waiting for that either. If, after such a monitor, the answer is that municipalities have to reduce the costs of the Wmo because otherwise they can't afford it, then I think we're on the wrong track. So I'd be very happy if the Minister stressed that that's not the route we're going on.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u61	My thesis is that in the kitchen table conversations also municipalities have a number of possibilities for having a substantive and meaningful conversation in which the basics of the WMO are what can you do and what can you do together with your social environment, for example? Debates of the European Parliament Those are actually already possibilities that municipalities have. I think that's enough for now. In order to create a possibility for further clarification or tightening up, we have introduced the possibility of the AMvB into the law. Again, I am not getting ahead of that and will not yet say what that might be. I was invited here again by Mrs Agema to answer the question as to whether it would be reasonable to introduce income dependency. To that I say: it seems very illogical to me to do so at that time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u62	I don't want to.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u63	Sure. Neither does Mrs. Agema. Furthermore, I do not anticipate any substantive measures. Let that implementation practice show what's going on. Let's see what's going on and look at the difference between one municipality and the other municipality, for example. Of course, we will keep track of that and benchmark it in the monitor. There is now quite a difference between municipalities when it comes to whether or not they come up with the Wmo budget. That has everything to do with the way a municipality organises the care and support. That has nothing to do with pinching, as you put it. But that simply has to do with the question: what do you make of a generally accessible facility and what do you make of a tailor-made facility? What do you know in a neighborhood to connect wisely with what is already happening and what is there about social tissue in that neighborhood? Or are you going to finance everything through individual routes? For example, there are all kinds of daily spending options. You can see great differences between municipalities in what is available for daily use. It's really not like the most expensive is the best. On the contrary, I would almost say. There are so many variants in which you could shape that. I also want to leave that space and creativity at municipal level. Then where are the guarantees? They are simply in the legal provisions, in the legal mandate to municipalities to do both an investigation and then to arrive at an appropriate tailor-made provision. The way in which a municipality organises its regulation is always subject to what a city council decides. There is also a guarantee. Things don't just change all of a sudden. There's no sudden change of arrangements. There's a city council out there, I know from experience. The debates on a WMO regulation are very intensive debates, I can tell you from my own experience. In addition, we have that monitor, to be able to take appropriate measures when it all turns out to be a bit different than we thought.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u64	I've been holding on all this time, Mr. Chairman. I'm asking the Minister to help me a little bit. I see he's taking steps. He sees that you have to do something with the fear that the effects of the subscription rate might fall in a negative way on the people who can suffer the least, let's say: the people with the lowest incomes, the vulnerable. The Minister refers to a general measure of governance that will offer a perspective of action to municipalities, a monitor and so on. I have heard the general measure of governance passed as a possible measure. We are not going to get ahead of it, but I just want to get a picture of what measures it might be. As I and colleagues see it, there are, in fact, invitations to municipalities to raise additional thresholds, which perhaps the most vulnerable people are stumbled upon. We have heard the Minister talk about money and we have just heard him talk about a number of things that, if you are not careful, are going to intervene very much on the freedom of policy that municipalities have in the context of decentralisation. Assuming, apart from the money, that these thresholds and limiting that policy area are not the things we think of first, what more is left of action? I shall then remove that income dependency, which the Minister has already mentioned, at least in the spirit of the Minister. What's left?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u65	Clear.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u66	What remains of that which is positive and which does not lead to limitation, to limits, to containment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u67	I understand the question quite well and it is also quite tempting to answer it. And yet the answer to that is not very easy, because we can only really give a good answer when the results of the monitor are on the table. That's one. Two, the substantive measures. We are thus creating an AMvB opportunity to take these substantive measures. In doing so, the AMvB option has been deliberately widely formulated and we have actually linked it to the legal provisions on access that are already in the law. What should a municipality involve in its research and how should a municipality achieve a tailor-made provision? I'm going to do something that I'm not supposed to do, which is to go with "what, if." I would find it logical to comply with those legal provisions, namely the assessment as already prescribed in the Wmo. What can you do for yourself? What can you do with support from your environment? What would be seen as common provision? These are the types of provisions that can now be included in the municipal inquiry. Do I think it will be necessary in advance? No, actually, I don't. It is my impression that municipalities can make use of this. I also see, of course, that local authorities are sometimes very limited in their case law. That may be a reason to specify the standard of the law at that time, for example per AMVB. We've done that before, by the way. The AMvB real price was in some sense also a clarification of the standard already in the law. I can imagine that this AMvB too is actually going to work as a clarification of the standard that is already in the law. Why am I saying it this way? I do that because I think that we have created an AMvB possibility and that we therefore need to move forward in the spirit of the Wmo. That is the spirit of the Wmo that we have deliberately established here too. We believe in this room for customization by municipalities, because that is what we have legally laid down. At the same time, we believe that this is not just space, but that it is also a legal obligation for municipalities to properly implement that space. We put a few guidelines in the law on how municipalities should do that. These are: to see what people can do themselves, to see what people can do with their environment, to see what belongs to a common provision. You can expect that from all people anyway. Look at a Wmo request in this way and if it is necessary, for example because case law has been created that limits that space, to give that space a more precise shape, you could use the AMvB for example. But perhaps we should not anticipate that situation, because what measure is most appropriate will be demonstrated by the monitor.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u68	A very long answer.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u69	There was also a lot in the answer. I get the point about the clarification. But of course you do have a clarification in one direction, in the right direction, when it comes to the possibilities that people have to get to that WMO facility, and a clarification in the wrong direction. That is a clarification that raises thresholds. Look, if you set some things in motion that are meant to take away fear, we won't be helped if we finally get out of the rain in the drip. That's why I want to get a little more picture. Are they just miserable things? Is it, apart from that extra money, only miserable things that then, in quotes, are brought as a solution? Another thing that I did not mention is that the Minister does not have to go into it. It is that municipalities feel obliged to go elsewhere in the social domain to cut back, so that the people with the weakest shoulders will suffer in another way. I'm just trying to get it clear and I think it should be a bit in advance, not in the sense that we're going to do it, but from here you can think about it as well. So we can take away the feeling that we're going to create something to remove a fear, the effect of which is that we're going to get hit by the rain.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u70	The Minister has just made an attempt to do this. Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u71	It is good that we should talk about this, because this was really a key point. I also appreciate the Minister's willingness to respond to a wide-ranging concern in the Chamber. At the same time, I also understand the need for nuance. The question of whether you want it even if it is going to cost more cannot be answered with a simple 'no' or 'yes'. The Minister doesn't want to write a blank cheque either. But I do taste a change from "I'm not getting ahead of it," which sounds a little bit more like a "no," to "I'm not running away from it," which means we're getting a little closer to a "yes." So at least I appreciate that development positive. My question is whether that monitor really helps to bring that into sight. Yes, we will see some of the costs later, but do we also see differences between municipalities? I see it as a key point when the average is exactly the same, but you see a number of municipalities that are falling terribly, and a number of municipalities where that is not happening at all. Does the monitor help with that?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u72	Yeah, 'cause you're gonna have to know that. The way you have designed your access and your offer is indeed important for how many people call on it. That too works both ways. Sometimes surprisingly few people use Wmo support, apparently also because they are not familiar with it, or don't expect so much of it. Then as a municipality you also have to get on your feet. I'm assuming city councils will keep their lectures sharp on that, too. The other way, too. If the door is very wide open and there is little selectivity in the access selectivity in the sense of "do you really need it?', Because the Wmo is a law for people who really need it.Then as city council you can expect from your college that it guards the entrance door a little better. That was actually how I was just trying to answer Mr Kerstens' question. I see that as a reason not to get ahead of it now. It just depends on what it turns out to be. And what appears from that doesn't even have to be national. It can also be something that appears only in a part of the municipalities, and not in another part of the municipalities. So yes, these differences between municipalities must also be demonstrated in all precision. That's gonna come in the picture, too. What we then get to answer that other question of yours from the first term is a quantitative picture about 2017 and 2018 as a kind of zero measurement. We get a first quality picture of 2019 in September, October of this year. That's the first part of the monitor. So qualitatively with regard to the development in 2019, because of course you haven't had a whole year and don't know what the impact has been on the numbers, and the zero measurement over 2017 and 2018. The first quantitative picture for 2019 will be available in September 2020. This is how we try to visualize it in all its sharpness.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u73	The December letter, which explains the criteria that this monitor should meet, indicated that it would soon be known who would manage that monitor. Is that already known and where are we with that? That was a question first of all from me.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u74	I had a week to do so and kept up with all the questions from the first term. I'm gonna answer them all, and the president is terrified. I'll do it a little bit shorter than I...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u75	I am going to be a little strict, because you have already addressed a very large part of the questions that have been asked on this subject, I dare to assume.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u76	Yes. I'm grateful for that, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u77	But perhaps not Mrs. Luck's question.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u78	I am going to answer the outstanding questions, and one of those outstanding questions is indeed Mrs Luck's. I think Mrs Bergkamp set it up as well. The setup of the monitor is ready. I sent it to the Chamber. This is a joint product of the VNG, of client organisations and of the Empire. It's offered to the Chamber. It is a major task, so that requires a European call for tenders and that European call for tenders is currently under way. The VNG is also involved in this. I expect the award to come in May. Then the start of that monitor can take place. Mr Segers asks whether there is an image of the extra influx that is already taking place. It's really too early to say. Of course I hear numbers, but then I think: yes, they are in the first few months. By the way, I have two images opposite each other and I am sure they are both not entirely adequate. On the one hand, a number of municipalities have significant percentages of additional inflow. But, of course, that could have been the people who are going to use it for the first time. Then it makes sense that there are even higher numbers. On the other hand, there is the CAK, which does not yet see that there is indeed a substantial increase in its use. My point is that it is still far too early to say anything meaningful about it. We will really have to wait a little while, and actually we just have to spend a whole year doing that; then you can really say something about it.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u79	I'll be brief, Mr. Chairman. I'm gonna go back two minutes. The minister said the quantitative monitor will come in September 2020.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u80	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u81	Surely I am right that municipalities, which would have to incur additional costs in 2019 and 2020, should not receive additional funding until 2021?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u82	It's not like we don't know anything. It's not like we don't know anything in September and October, because we do know the quality picture. You know the first quantitative image, but you also know that's never complete. However, you know the first qualitative picture. So it's not like we don't know anything. However, it is true that you will have to run for a full year before you know it. And yes, you will only be able to look back in the course of 2020. Then you can see: that's how it happened. But it's not like we don't know anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u83	May I summarize it as follows? The Minister says that from 2020 onwards municipalities could rely on this and that additional financial resources are not excluded.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u84	I understand you're looking for the brief summary of my overly long speech just now. I understand that, and yet I think the summary is a bit short. We have set up a monitor to know how the implementation practice develops. It will take some time for that monitor to provide a reliable quantitative picture, because the zero measurement still has to be done and because that year still has to be done on the quantitative side. At the same time, you already see a lot in the qualitative side. That monitor is actually meant to give the partnership that governments have at all in the social domain, form and content, by saying: together out, together at home. I can only shape that system responsibility if we do it together. That's what the monitor's for. And so, of course, in September, we will also see where this leads. Does this mean taking action? I have already said: yes, these could be substantive measures. Which ones are there, I can't anticipate. Is it not possible that they are also financial measures? No. And I actually like the summary that Mr Van der Staaij just gave: I am not getting ahead of it, but I am not running away from it either. I always feel at home with the political center, so here too I actually like it. So... that, Chairman. Mr Seegers asked whether the monitor also looked at the possible suction effect from the Wlz to the Wmo. The answer is yes. A number of questions have been asked that are more about the numbers.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u85	I see that Mr Kerstens wishes to interrupt, but I tend to allow the Minister to finish this part. Or has Mr Kerstens really heard a question he hasn't had an answer to, or something he doesn't understand?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u86	If that's the possibility of asking a question, I'll say it twice: yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u87	That's silly of me. I'm trying to get the Minister to finish this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u88	I have a very short question, which goes on to Mr Geleijne's question about monitoring. This monitoring has, of course, by definition been able to look at things in retrospect and do things afterwards. If the minister is going to do something from 2020, is it "unfortunate but unfortunately" for municipalities, but especially for citizens who may have suffered from the introduction of the subscription rate in 2019 or 2020? Am I getting that right? Of course, that would be very acidic.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u89	Now Mr. Kerstens is really turning it around. Will citizens suffer from the introduction of the subscription rate? Come on! 140,000 people who are now dealing with a high accumulation of care costs are making progress. So let's also have this conversation with a little more joy. I recognise and recognise the concern you expressed in the first term. However, the introduction of the subscription rate is of great benefit to people. That's why we didn't want to wait until 2020 and started in 2019. In 2019 we start with the monitor. We do that because we want to account for the concerns that seem to exist. But let's keep talking a little bit about the subscription rate, because that means so much to so many people in their wallets.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u90	Mr. Christmas, short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u91	It is not about all citizens, but this fear is now recognised and recognised by the Minister. He wants to do something about that. At least, through a monitor. We're gonna talk about what that's gonna mean, when and for who. This fear is not only that municipalities are unable to move financially, but also that as a result they are going to take all kinds of measures that will make other people suffer again, for example people with a narrow scholarship or vulnerable people. So there are people who can also be the victims of this bill. That's why we're keeping that monitor. The Minister wants to do something about that. That's what he reported, and I'm happy about that. He's gonna do that from 2020. That's what we're assuming. Apart from the people who are happy about this, something bad can happen for people. Does the minister say: it's all in the game; I can't do anything about that anymore? Or does he say, by that time, we'll just have to see how we handle it in a proper way?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u92	Well, then I'd be very much in anticipation of what's coming out of that monitor. It seems to me to be rather imaginary that there would have been a negative consequence for citizens. I don't think that's as good as possible. Let's just outline the financial context. A number of questions have been asked about this. Let me just use this as a bridge. When we made the coalition agreement I was not there, by the way, so I learned that from the surrender, namely the coalition agreement itself, it was assumed that the introduction of the subscription rate would cost 290 million: part of the loss of revenue and part of the withdrawal effect. The coalition agreement stipulates that we will do so with cofinancing. There's an important reason for that. With regard to the financial arrangement between the Empire and the municipalities, we have said: in the social domain, as governments, you are also simply a partner. That is why we put the following question on the table in all the discussions at the time of the conclusion of the government agreement with municipalities. Are we going to set up a separate flow of money for each problem? Or do we not and agree that we are going to have an accressystematiek that will result in a structural increase in expenditure on municipalities and leave it to the municipalities in what way? The latter was chosen. So we did it with co-financing. We have said: we add 145 million surplus to the Municipal Fund and we assume that the municipalities will finance the other 145 million of these 290 million. Should they do that out of their own pocket and at the expense of something else? No, because in the same years the expenditure on the Municipal Fund also increases considerably, by broadening the basis of the calculation of the accres and by the expansionary expenditures, dixit the Minister of Finance of this cabinet. I've even heard our Prime Minister say that we buried as expansively as Den Uyl. I don't know if he was proud of that or not. If the Minister of Finance repeats these words, he looks at them much less enthusiastically. At least this cabinet spends a lot of money. That is good news for municipalities, because that means a lot more spending in their accressystematiek, especially because we have also widened the basis. This has always to do with the actual expenditure that the Empire then spends, but in general that amounts to about 1 billion per year growth, more or less. In short, we have not only provided surplus 50% of our part of the co-financing, but we have also greatly enabled the municipalities to do their part of the co-financing. Then there was a new estimate of the CPB, which said: it is not 290 million; it is actually only 190 million. Well, then we had the choice, I had the choice if I would adjust that 145 down, if I would make that 95. That could have been the linear effect. At that time there were already discussions, concerns about volume growth and so on. Then I thought: this is not the right time to say "we'll strip out the 145 million." So I left those 145. However, that does not alter the basic agreement in the coalition agreement. However, it is likely that the 145 and the adjusted estimate actually offset the additional cost of the subscription rate to a greater extent than was originally envisaged by the government agreement. Do municipalities still have the possibility to implement minimum policies? That is a question from Mrs Ellemeet. The answer is: yes, that possibility is not being dealt with. Mr President, I think I have just answered all the questions.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u93	That leaves only the response to the amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u94	No, I mean from this block.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u95	Oh, from this cube?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u96	Don't get too excited.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u97	Ah. Mrs. Ellemeet?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u98	Short and concise is quite pleasant, but 'yes' to my question whether minimum regulations can still be applied in practice is very short. My question was, of course, another one. It can be done on paper and it seems a very generous gesture from the Minister, but we need to see in practice whether the subscription rate is not at the expense of minimum regulations. It could be that municipalities say: the cost of the subscription rate is higher than we thought; these minimum regulations require even more of us in terms of costs. Are we gonna monitor that properly? Are we going to keep an eye on whether minimum schemes are the child of the account as a result of the subscription rate?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u99	Here too, the answer is yes. We will simply monitor and visualise the municipal transactions resulting from the subscription rate. However, I would point out that there is no need to adopt minimum regulations. There is no obligation from the Empire. That's a choice that municipalities make themselves. Interestingly, I may have understood that the number of municipalities that opt for a minimum scheme increased in 2019 compared to 2018, despite the subscription rate. But we'll keep an eye on that. In fact, we are following municipal policies as a result of the introduction of the subscription rate. So this will be evident.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u100	That seems very important to me, because I am getting other signals, namely that municipalities are already saying, anticipating the subscription rate: we are going to stop doing so, because we cannot combine both. But I heard the minister right. It's important to have that in the picture. It should not at all be the case that minima should ultimately pay the bill of the subscription rate.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u101	I understand Mrs Ellemeet says so. But that sounds like municipalities shouldn't decide this. Municipalities can decide this. You think it's undesirable, but that's different. Municipalities are allowed to do this. Then, Mr President, I will deal with the questions of implementation and implementation. A lot has been asked about that by 50PLUS. In 2019, a first step was taken with the introduction of the subscription rate for customised services. This has kept the existing data exchange intact. The impact on this year's implementation is therefore actually very limited. We cannot simply stop the collection of data that is now expected under the law. But by 2020, the exchange of data between municipalities, providers, the CAK and the Tax Administration will be so greatly simplified that it will lead to a significant reduction in the implementation burden of the CAK. Following a question from D66, I note that both the CAK and the VNG passed an extensive implementation test in 2018, concluding that the remaining implementation time is simply realistic. As a point of interest, it has been mentioned that the design of the new data exchange had to be started quickly. From the summer of 2018 there have been quite a few steps in this direction. The implementation is therefore on track. In the last six months of 2019, the ICT landscape will be tested together with all players involved in the data exchange. Errors or risks regarding the continuity of the determination and collection of the own contribution can be resolved in the next six months. The test period ensures that everyone involved in the implementation is adequately integrated into the new systems. It sometimes happens that ICT is a bit slower to adapt than you would like. And just imagine what the ICT landscape isn't in order, then the current ICT landscape of 2019 can be used temporarily as a fallback option. We've assured ourselves of that. We've been exploring that. In addition, other relapse options will be developed.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u102	I am somewhat reassured, but is the Minister prepared to inform the Chamber at the beginning of 2020 about the state of the ICT landscape adjustment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u103	Yes. I think I'm gonna have to be able to do that sooner. I think it will be possible this autumn, let me say about the budget. Is that a good idea? It is linked to a number of other questions that have been asked, particularly by the Christian Union, but also by D66 and also by you. Do we have to worry about the CAK? That is where I think this question comes from. The answer is yes, there are concerns about the CAK. By the way, these are concerns that do not immediately affect clients. However, there are concerns about the CAK as an administrative organisation and, in particular, its internal control. It is actually the case that this evolution of the subscription rate also makes it much less complex for the CAK. The potential concerns about the internal control within the CAK decrease precisely with the introduction of this subscription rate. But then things will have to go well and the preparation of the ICT landscape will have to go at the right pace. Let me send you an update on the budget on how these preparations are going. Then I'll do it a little bit wider than just the CAK. Then I'll see if the ICT adjustment even manages to be ready in time or if it's necessary to opt for a relapse option.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u104	Fine. It's nice that the Minister wants to do that. Does he indicate that, if it is likely to go wrong during the course of the journey to less complex areas, the Chamber will be informed at an early stage and not afterwards via the media?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u105	Yes. I'd rather not do that anyway, I understand by now. I'm trying to do that in time.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u106	A number of very good points have emerged from the implementation test carried out by the municipalities. The Minister pays attention to the subject of the CAK. I asked a question about the small healthcare providers. An option would be offered to provide data with less control pressure. My question is whether this option can be met.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u107	Would it be okay if I returned to that in the second term? I didn't find that question in my set.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u108	That's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u109	That question is currently being registered.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u110	You'll get back to that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u111	I'll get back to you. With regard to implementation and implementation, I would like to say to Mr Geleijne and Mrs Bergkamp that in the autumn I will update the state of implementation and indicate whether there is a reason for concern and whether there is a need to put back-up options into effect or whether it is going as planned. Mr Segers has also asked a number of questions about this. I've, I think, partially answered it. The planning is tight but feasible. This is also evident from the execution test. Mrs Bergkamp asked whether the other conditions laid down in the VNG implementation test were also met. This is about adapting the messaging traffic, creating a relapse option for data delivery and, indeed, the delivery of data, as I see him taking care that small healthcare providers can deliver at a low threshold. The answer to that question is yes. These other conditions are also met. That saves you for the second term. A single question about the suitability of the CAK as an execution organisation. I have just said something, I say in the direction of 50PLUS and the PVV, about the concerns about the CAK. At the same time, I wouldn't know who could do this better than the CAK. The complexity for them also really decreases when we introduce it on 1 January. I have now answered the questions about implementation. I have a few more questions under varia. A number of questions have been asked about the health fall. I understand these questions very well, but at the same time I think that the cabinet has solved the part that was soluble, namely the possible fallback in the number of hours, by allowing the Extra Costs Home scheme to be extended. If this would result in a fall in the number of hours in the Wlz, that number of hours could be increased. The Cabinet shall evaluate that measure in the first six months. I'll inform your room about that. As of 1 July 2018, we have introduced these measures, so before 1 July 2018 you will hear from us...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u112	2019.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u113	Yes, that is what I mean: before 1 July 2019 you will hear from us how these measures have worked out in practice. I also said that this is a partial solution because it does not solve the difference in its own contributions. That's not very easy to solve either. If I wanted to solve the difference in my own contributions, it would be budgetaryly neutral to do so only by, for example, reintroducing an own contribution to community care. You and I don't want that measure. This could lead us to think at some point about whether we should go to another legal regime, where we organise care at home, knowing that we are on the road to a huge demographic development. That is precisely the task of the committee set up on the basis of Mrs Bergkamp's motion. So the question of whether there is anything to do about the health fall in practice, we have resolved the number of hours. We're going to evaluate that measure. With regard to the system of own contribution, I also said that I cannot solve it, but that we can see if we should, for example, go to one regime in the future. We gave that question to the committee that was set up on the basis of the motion I have just mentioned: the Committee on the Future of Care for the Elderly. Under the varia block, there is also Mr Segers' question: are there any households that could experience a negative income effect? Yes, that is possible if municipalities increase their rate to the subscription rate. So that's possible. How many municipalities do that will be demonstrated by the monitor. What income effects are we talking about for the pgb protected living? Clients with a pgb protected residence who also receive a fee for the housing component will be covered by the inpatient contribution system with this bill. With this they are aligned in terms of inpatient contribution systems with all others. It's just a few dozen clients who apparently didn't. That is indeed a big increase, but that is also logical, because that is just the case with the in-house contribution. In fact, you could say that those who have wrongly paid far too little in recent times, so that's just getting straightened out. There was another question from Mrs Bergkamp as to what this change means for the pgb-funded parents' initiatives protected living. That's a similar question. For most, it does not mean anything, except for the pgb-initiatives protected living who received a remuneration from the pgb for the housing component. That's evened out, but apparently that's only true for a few dozen clients. That's exactly what this is about. It is, of course, important to set up good communication guidance there. That is also provided for. Then there is Mrs Lucky's question about the Central Board of Appeal. Implicitly, Mr Hijink also asked that question in connection with the announcement this morning in the Volkskrant. I have a letter in preparation which deals in detail with the issue of the ruling of the Central Board of Appeal in relation to the result-oriented indication. I expect to send that letter to the Chamber in the second half of next week. The Central Board of Appeal has pointed out the vulnerability to the legal certainty of clients in the Wmo in the event of result-oriented indication. Now you don't want to make that impossible, but at the same time you want to comply with that court ruling on protecting and providing more legal certainty. In that line, that letter will come your way next week. Consultations are being held with the municipalities in order to arrive here in a sensible way, doing justice to the judgments. If it's all right with you, I'd like to inform you about that next week. I think I came to the end of the reply. I shall now go through the amendments. I shall begin with Mr Kerstens' amendment to item No. 9. This concerns the creation of a new provision for the AMvB that is already in the law, not the new AMvB that comes in, but the AMvB that is already in the law. I do not understand very well what these provisions for the AMvB have for added value. For example, it concerns the definition of groups which may be exempted by the municipalities from a contribution if they meet a certain income limit. Those kinds of provisions are in the AMvB, so I don't really understand the added value of this. Frankly, I would advise against this amendment. I can imagine that you would like a provision on the new amendment that is coming, but that is another one that is before you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u114	The amendment in part No. 9 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u115	The amendment in part No. 10 is about deploying a client experience survey for the monitor. I agree with the importance of keeping an eye on the availability of provisions and the financial burden on clients following the introduction of the subscription rate. The only question is whether the customer experience study is suitable for that, because the monitor, as it has been established, is actually a better tool to visualize it. It was also made in consultation with client organisations. It takes into account precisely the two elements that you mention in this amendment. In short, here too, I do not think it is necessary to adopt this amendment, in order to get what you want done, namely to involve customer experience data in the monitor. It is recorded in the monitor itself.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u116	The amendment in part No. 10 is also not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u117	The amendment in part No. 11 deals with the pre-requisite clause related to the AMvB on additional rules following the investigation. I can, of course, agree with the principle that people who need a provision should not be given it. That is also the reason why I included that perspective of action, the possibility to do so, in the AMvB. I can actually agree with the desire to create a prefix. I find it rather curious that there is another condition attached to it, that if one fifth of the Chamber is in favour of casting the detailed rules that you would like to lay down in that AMvB, in the form of a law, there is not an AMvB but a law. That is a very special amendment. I appreciate the creativity, but frankly I have never seen it in legislation in this form. That would actually mean that if 30 seats in the Chamber say that the content of this AMvB should actually be designed at the level of the law, then the conversation is not about an AMvB over which you have to come to majority decision-making, but then you should start a legislative process. And the legislative process that you then have to start, you do not decide by majority; that is what you actually decide by 20% of the Chamber. I think that's such a wonderful figure that I don't feel very much about that.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u118	It's very clever.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u119	It's super smart. However, if you would like to have a provision, I understand that very well, but you would have to downsize the will of the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u120	We're gonna take a look at it. The intention is, of course, clear to the Minister. These are areas where there is a great deal of discussion and which, moreover, are addressed in both general measures of governance. The Minister, I think, is testing that there is a broad need in the Chamber to remain involved, to continue to influence it, not to be surprised by it. That is the intention of both amendments. I'm going to take a look at the latter: isn't that a little bit overdone, as the minister says?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u121	I'm adding "dissuade" now. If you wish to amend it, you will table an amended amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u122	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u123	And an appreciation?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u124	If the amendment is amended, I think there will be a written appreciation.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u125	Oh, yeah. Either in the second term, or I try to do it in writing before the votes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u126	Yeah, exactly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u127	That's fine.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u128	The amendment in part No. 12.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u129	Yes. The amendment in part No. 12 is also an amendment by Mr Kerstens. It calls for a two-year law review. I think that's very short. It's about an evaluation of the law. Let me put it this way: we have the monitor and that monitor shows, in September this year and in September next year, what the effects of the law are in practice. Therefore, we already know very well what the practice looks like. But a law review is actually something else. This calls for an examination of the effectiveness of a law in practice. I think two years will be very short. I would say: if you make that three years, then I am quite prepared to give the amendment judgement Chamber. I do not think that we have at present included a time limit in the law for the assessment. By default, for example, you would do that after five years. But if you make that three years, I'm actually very fond of it. I think two years is very short.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u130	Are you prepared to amend your amendment?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u131	Yes. Shall I take my heart by hand and save both the Minister and myself the homework by saying that we are adjusting it? By the way, we still have to do that: change on paper to three years.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u132	Adjust and retable, but we already know that the amendment will be judged by the Chamber if it is adjusted along this line.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u133	Yes. I would like to say a few words about Mrs Ellemeet's amendment to item No. 13. That actually introduces an income-dependent contribution. It states that people with an income above €55,000 gross are able to make an income-dependent contribution themselves. We've just talked about it in detail. We do not need to repeat that debate. I would not be in favour of this for the reason that we would then have to maintain the overall implementation capacity that exists today and for the reason that I do not think it is entirely in line with this bill anyway. It is not so much in line with the Wmo, where it is the art to come up with a tailor-made solution. I believe that income dependency is too one-dimensional to determine whether or not people need support. So I would advise against this amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u134	The amendment in part No. 13 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u135	Then there is the amendment to item No. 14 and the amendment to item No. 14 and the amendment to item No. 14 15. If I have understood correctly, these are actually similar amendments.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u136	From the members Hijink and Agema.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u137	Yes, and Mrs. Agema's. I can come up with one piece of advice. The SP and PVV propose that the AMvB be removed from the study, at the kitchen table. I would find that unwise because I want to give ourselves the opportunity to take substantive measures on the basis of the monitor. So I am not running away from the financial part, but you should also be able to take substantive measures. We are happy to do so on the basis of an AMvB, so I would like to maintain that possibility of an AMvB.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u138	So you advise against both amendments?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u139	Yes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u140	Mr. Hijink.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u141	The point is that the Minister himself has just indicated that the current Wmo already offers many opportunities for municipalities to take such measures. If you incorporate it into the law in this way, you're actually saying that, in case it's necessary, we're going to lay down further rules, which can make municipalities more stringent in their selection. Because that's what you do: municipalities get more opportunities to give people less care. The concern with us is that you are ahead of an outcome the Minister says: it is probably not going to prevent municipalities from getting into financial problems, but if so, we will give this hook the opportunity to give less care. I don't think there are a lot of other flavors if you give the municipalities that opportunity.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u142	I disagree. I'm not going to repeat what we've just exchanged in way too many words. It is true that in the Wmo there are already a number of possibilities to have access to the conversation with people to see if the support is really needed, whether it is not under usual care, what someone can do and what someone can do with the neighbors or with family. And it's gonna stay. This amendment provides for the possibility of specifying and clarifying a number of things for this purpose. That is what we have done before with the AMvB on the real price. That was also just in the law, but still we felt it necessary to create an AMvB that focuses a number of things more closely. That's how you should see it: it's in line with how the Wmo is already equipped. I'm not getting ahead of myself. If Mr Kerstens's amendment is adopted, you will also have a possibility if I intend to send an AMvB to the Chamber. I would say: let us first see what comes out of the monitor, let us then see what sensible measures are, let us then see how the cabinet writes down these measures and then it is 'to be debated' at that time. I am not in favour of deleting the possibility of further clarification or measures, because that is what you are proposing and as I have read your amendment and what Mrs Agema is proposing. That is why I reject the amendment.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u143	But I just don't understand what the Minister sees as additional possibilities. I mentioned the examples from Eindhoven, this morning in the newspaper. The municipality already has so many opportunities to appeal to people to what they can do, to what the household care can do, to what the neighbors have to do, to what the network can do, etc. So there can be so much already. If there is an additional possibility for municipalities to do so even more specifically, then it can only be that it becomes stricter and that more care is taken away from people. I just don't see any other way. I do not hear the Minister mention an example of how he thinks that will happen.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u144	Now I'm really gonna repeat myself, because we've exchanged this in great detail. It is about giving yourself the possibility in the law to give a more detailed explanation, a more detailed explanation of the principles that are included in the Wmo anyway. You have to, because it's an AMvB on a bill. It's not a new bill, it's an AMvB on a bill. I think it is unwise, let me turn it around for a moment, because you do not know which case law is going to follow. I find it unwise not to give yourself that possibility as a legislator, because that is actually what your amendment is proposing, if you are going to do a monitor and you want to know what the outcome is and what measures can be taken at that time. If you do not do so, you simply leave open the possibility to add money at that time, regardless of whether or not municipalities have made use of the possibilities in the law, whether or not municipalities have been able to make use of the possibilities in the law, as case law, for example, reduces the possibilities for municipalities to do so. I'd say it's unwise to take that opportunity out of the law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u145	Mr. Hijink writes that he believes that the minister should come forward with sufficient financial compensation towards municipalities. I agree, but I did not include that in my amendment. This is because I believe, in principle, that municipalities should not be given more opportunities, for example, to make schemes dependent on income, to go for compulsory care or to introduce other restrictions. So I just want the AMvB option out.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u146	That's right. I think the explanation is different, but the amendment you wish to make to the law is indeed the same, namely...
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u147	Yes, but you should also read the explanatory statement.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u148	Oh, yeah. I have read it, but both proposals actually lead to the same thing. So either the amendment in part No. 14 or the amendment to item No. 15 is adopted, does not matter de facto. Your explanation relates in particular to the possibility of income dependency. You asked me the same question: surely you are not going to do that with the AMvB in your hand? Well, I did say that: it seems extremely illogical to me to do so. You say: I want to be sure that I have it out at all. And what I have just said in the direction of Mr Hijink is actually true in your direction. Look, if you're going to see with this bill what concerns there are, and then agree that you're going to monitor what the implementation practice looks like, then you should also give yourself the opportunity to take action on the basis of that monitor. If we take out this AMvB option, we will have less, if not less, options for action, unless it is in the form of a legislative proposal. This is usually the slowest way to make a change. In short, I would be very much for the possibility of an AMvB. However, I have also said that I am quite fond of linking it up with a veiling procedure, if Mr Kerstens makes a slightly less wild proposal to that effect. Then at that moment, when the AMvB is there, we can just have this debate. This does not differ substantially from dealing with a legislative proposal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u149	I do not want to moan, but if Mr Hijink's amendment is accepted, then the Minister must come up with financial compensation. And if my amendment is adopted, all he has to do is delete the AMvB option. That brings us back to the first interrupt debate, because what is the Minister going to do now? He rejected all the amendments, both those of Mrs Ellemeet and those of SP, PvdA and PVV. So I'm still very curious what the minister is going to do politically. Is he just going to let it come to the votes next Tuesday? Or is he going to do a handshake towards one of the parties here in the Chamber to secure himself in the First Chamber as well?
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u150	Well, what the minister's gonna do is talk his ass off to show passion how important this bill is, how much it is for people who are going to get into a pile of care costs, how many people are going to get into it and what it doesn't mean to them. I just did. Then, in the first period, I also found that I see, recognise, recognise and also trade the concerns that exist in municipalities, for example, or in some client organisations. I am acting by saying that we need a monitor in order to be able to keep a very good finger on the wrist in practice. Then the question "what if" was asked: "Yes, but if that monitor shows that it is going to be very bad for municipalities financially, are you prepared to...?" I said that I would be prepared to take measures, both substantive and financial. But we're not going to anticipate that. We wait for the monitor and then what Mr Van der Staaij summarized as: we don't get ahead of it, but we don't run away from it either. We keep our finger on the pulse and take the necessary measures when the moment comes.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u151	Finally, the amendment to item No. 16.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u152	Yes, the amendment to item No. 16 of the member Hijink. Actually, we've been over that. I'm dissuading him in his present form. Mr Hijink doesn't think that is a point either, if we have the possibility, if it leads to an AMvB, to send it to the Chamber first, before we actually let it do its job in practice. I think that's a great deal.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u153	Yeah, that's a good deal. I therefore believe that I should withdraw the amendment, because an amendment cannot be retained.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u154	The Heink amendment (Doc. 16) has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u155	This brings me to the end of my reply, Mr President.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u156	Yes, that brings us to the end of the first term of office of the government. I look at the members to see if there is a need for a second term. Yeah, we're gonna do that. First, I give the floor to Mr Hijink of the SP.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u157	Mr. Chairman. The SP is not in favour of its own contribution to the Wmo, so if there is a law to significantly reduce that own contribution, that is a step in the right direction as far as we are concerned. There were and there are still a lot of concerns about the consequences of this law, because the own contribution goes down, which reduces the revenue of municipalities, and there are doubts as to whether the compensation from the Empire is enough. For the SP, this is also the biggest concern, the biggest risk of this law. We absolutely do not want this law to lead to new cuts in municipalities. We believe that this law should not be a disguised austerity. Today, the Minister has made an important commitment, a commitment that goes beyond what we have heard from him earlier, namely that measures can be taken in the event of an emergency and that they can also be financial measures, measures that allow municipalities to be financially able to implement this law properly. The Minister thus remains responsible and accountable for any problems that may arise under this law. He also remains responsible for the financial conditions that apply to municipalities in order to implement this law properly. To confirm that, I'd like to file the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the subscription rate in the Social Support Act (Wmo) contributes to reducing the accumulation of care costs for people;]] [[noting that the subscription rate leads to less revenue from own contributions and possibly more applications for support from the Wmo;]] [[Whereas uncertainty exists as to whether the proposed compensation to municipalities is sufficient to properly implement the subscription rate;]] [[Whereas, for this reason, a monitor has been agreed to monitor closely developments resulting from the subscription rate;]] [[Considering that the Minister is able to address the opportunities and obstacles for municipalities to achieve the objectives of the 2015 WMO within appropriate legal and financial framework conditions;]] [[calls on the government to take measures, in consultation with municipalities, on the basis of the results of the monitor if there are any bottlenecks that have arisen in the proper implementation of the subscription rate by municipalities,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was proposed by Mr Hijink, Mr Ellemeet, Mr Kerstens, Mr Agema, Mr Kuzu, Mr Van Kooten-Arissen, Mr Geleijne, Mr Van der Staaij, Mr Baudet, Mr Hermans, Mr Geluk-Poortvliet, Mr Bergkamp and Mr Segers.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35093-17]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u158	Mr. Chairman. In the first term I asked about the grace care: is it covered by the subscription rate? I hope, in fact, that I am more or less assuming that this is the same as for day-to-day spending, so that people using respite care will in no case pay more than €19 per month. Finally, the point we have just mentioned: the possibility which the Minister reserves to intervene if he feels that this is necessary if there are serious overruns. We really reject the proposal in the law to give additional opportunities to municipalities to make even greater use of care services and their own network. There was something about it in the Volkskrant this morning. There can be so much already. At the kitchen table, in those infamous kitchen tables, it has been decided so many times to give less care than people actually need, that we in SP do not think that these possibilities need to be tightened even further. I therefore hope that we will support our amendment not to introduce that emergency brake, which the Minister would like to; I hope that there will be a majority in favour of getting it out of the law. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u159	Thank you. I call Mrs Ellemeet van GroenLinks.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u160	Thank you, Mr President. I started my first input with a quote from the minister himself. It explained why it is so important to make this Wmo accessible to everyone, because the Wmo with the subscription rate can really have a preventative effect. That is, I think, what we all want here in the Chamber. We all recognise that it is precisely the middle income that is now too often the victim of own contributions. That is why my group is also very much ported from that subscription rate. We also see the disadvantages and complications in terms of the powers of the municipalities on the one hand and the powers of the Empire on the other, but I think it is very important, in the end, for middle income to be met. However, we were very concerned about the costs that the municipalities would incur in terms of this additional influx. We've talked about that extensively. I am also really pleased and I am grateful to the Minister for saying so clearly, for the first time now, that it is precisely with regard to the development of the subscription rate for municipalities that we are looking not only at substantive measures but also at financial measures. I also understand the Minister's saying that it should not be a licence for municipalities; they should not be able to declare every overrun in the Empire. That is not what my group wants. On the other hand, it is important that when we see, on the basis of the data in that monitor, that there is an influx and an increase in costs, we also honestly say that we wanted this here from The Hague and we will assist these municipalities in the costs if there is reason to do so. I think that is the biggest profit from this debate. Mr Hijink has also tabled this motion on behalf of my group. I think that it is very important to keep monitoring the evolution of the subscription rate. I still have two concerns, which I have already mentioned, particularly with regard to minimum regulations. The minister says it's open to the municipalities. That's right. At the same time, we know that it is extremely important to keep access to care for people with really small incomes with these minimum schemes. It is therefore important, as far as I am concerned, to monitor this closely. It should not be the case that in practice people with low incomes suffer from the subscription rate. Then we're gonna blow our target off. I hope that I will continue to monitor, together with the Minister, whether that is not an undesirable effect. Mr. Chairman. Finally. As far as my group is concerned, it is also important that the strongest shoulders bear the heavy burden. That is where we differ when it comes to the deployment of the Wmo. I think it is important to look above a certain income at that income, where these WMO provisions should always be accessible to higher incomes. But it is also true that people who have it more financially can make a difference. Well, we disagree on that. I am very curious to see how this debate is going to develop. Maybe we'll talk about this possibility again in two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u161	Thank you. I call Mr Van der Staaij.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u162	Madam President. I would like to thank the Minister very much for his reply. We have had the debate with an interruption of a number of days. That also gave us an extra opportunity to think for a moment and talk to each other about where we want to come out. In fact, I find it very special that there is a Chamber-wide motion at the heart of this legislative process. It has been asked: in a fragmented political situation, is it not the government's choice to go left or right? You could also see if you can just have a very good debate, listen to each other and come to a Chamber-wide approach. That would be the real innovation again. Mrs Agema clearly indicated that they should actually choose between the PVV approach and the GroenLinks approach. Well, if it doesn't succeed in choosing between two approaches, you actually come to the middle of the SGP approach, which tries to connect the good of both.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u163	I'm sorry, but I'm a little challenged. In the middle? In the end, it's nothing at all. In the end, it simply says: "to take action if there are any bottlenecks'.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u164	Mrs. Agema is now undermining her own signature. In fact, I had the impression that she thinks this is a valuable motion, because I do not know the PVV as a party that puts its name under a motion that she does not think represents anything.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u165	I made this point first, when the coalition agreement was just there. That's when I made that point. Everyone knows what I think, namely that the windfalls that are expected in the coming years must now be put into effect. So there shouldn't be anything like a monitor at all. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Anyway, if the whole room wants a nothing-movement in the middle, I don't want to be a game breaker, of course.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u166	Well, then that is a very constructive attitude of the PVV group that she does not want to be a spoiler and yet participates. I'm always a little optimistic, but I see a development in moving towards more joint, although it's not quite perfect yet. In any case, I think this is a well-balanced wording which, on the one hand, is not satisfied with the total non-binding nature of 'we are all going to see it', but on the other hand does not want to fully anticipate and distribute blank cheques. Furthermore, I am not going to say anything about it, because experience has shown that if you have had a thorough debate on it in the first period and there is a balanced motion, you should not all give it its own colour. After all, we are going to repeat the second-term debate. I think the words are clear and clear. I think it is an important step forward. Mr. Chairman. I would like to leave it in second place.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u167	Thank you. Mrs. Geluk-Poortvliet.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u168	Mr. Chairman. I've been looking for so long to find a model or a solution to reduce the accumulation of healthcare costs. That is why I am so glad that we are finally in sight with this subscription rate. Now that we have it in view, we can reduce the cost of care so that care is accessible to everyone. The accumulation of administrative burdens for the municipalities was also extremely difficult. This will also solve the problem. I would like to thank the Minister for the detailed answer to the questions we have all asked. For me, it is very clear to a large extent and gives the answer to the questions I had. I still have one concern, and that is the concept of general provision. I shall table a motion for a resolution on this matter. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the introduction of the subscription rate also includes general provisions relating to a long lasting aid relationship under the subscription rate of €19 per month;]] [[Whereas this measure is taken to reduce the burden on middle incomes and to reduce the accumulation of own payments in care;]] [[considers that a more detailed explanation of the concept of a sustainable aid relationship can avoid difficulties in implementing the subscription rate;]] [[calls on the government to consult with the VNG and patient organisations to clarify the concept of a "sustainable aid relationship" and then to disseminate it to patient organisations and municipalities, and to inform the House of Representatives about it after the summer recess,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion was tabled by Mr Geluk-Poortvliet and Mr Van der Staaij. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35093-18]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think we have had a good debate, especially about the concerns. That is why I welcome the fact that Mrs Geluk-Poortvliet also underlines why we are doing this. Of course, we are doing this to address the accumulation of healthcare costs, because it affects people. This also applies to the regulatory burden and the unclear invoices. People now have certainty and clarity. To be honest, I also like the fact that this very committee of VWS, where it is sometimes quite crazy, has been able to table such a very broad motion. I'm actually proud of that. I think that the Minister has indeed clearly explained that he does not want to anticipate things, but that he has made the monitor for a reason, together with the client organisations and the VNG. We also need to see what comes out of it. That is one of the reasons why I have signed Mr Hijink's motion and others. My group supports this law, which is quite clear. We too had a number of concerns about the implementation and the consequences, but I think the Minister has been able to formulate this in a very clear way. As you are used to me, I still have a question in the varia category, about the pgb-funded housing initiatives. The Minister states that this falls under the heading of inpatient funding systems. Does this also mean, for example, that the collective agreement is applicable? The pgb without a residential component is no longer covered by protected housing, but by another category. In any case, the Minister has indicated that good information and guidance is needed. But I was wondering about the inpatient contribution system or cost system. Does this also mean that the old initiatives must comply with the collective agreement? Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u170	Thank you. Mr. Kerstens.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u171	Mr. Chairman. A bill that contributes to countering the accumulation of healthcare costs is a good thing. It is less beautiful when it comes to a legislative proposal that may put the pain of it elsewhere, especially in the case of people with the weakest shoulders, who can suffer the least. We made some arrangements with the Minister. We've just filed a motion in the Chamber. I myself have a few more, of which two are also to be reassured, which I have already stopped at an earlier stage at the Minister's request, but of which I think it is important not to submit them too early, but not too late. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the aim of the proposed introduction of the subscription rate in the Wmo is to reduce the accumulation of care costs, which is a good thing;]] [[Whereas, at the same time, there is a fear that people with a minimum income will be directly or indirectly disadvantaged by this introduction by making access to the WMO more difficult for them, or that they will suffer from cuts elsewhere in the social domain as a result of the cost of such introduction;]] [[Whereas such a disadvantage should be avoided;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that the introduction of the subscription rate does not lead directly or indirectly to the disadvantage, in financial terms or otherwise, of people with a minimum income,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas recent research has shown that around 30% of municipalities do not pay a so-called real rate to healthcare providers in the Wmo, as a result of which a correct payment of the salary increases as agreed in the collective agreement Nursing and Care Houses and Home Care is at risk;]] [[Considering that, also in the context of the growing need to be an attractive sector in terms of working conditions as a result of the substantial staff shortage, it is a bad thing;]] [[Whereas there is a risk that the additional costs associated with the introduction of the subscription rate in the WMO will result in a growing number of municipalities not paying a real rate as mentioned above, which is undesirable;]] [[calls on the Government to ensure that municipalities go or continue to pay a real rate to healthcare providers in the Wmo,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas, as a result of the introduction of the subscription rate in the Wmo, people could be directly or indirectly disadvantaged;]] [[whereas it is widely shared that this is not the intention;]] [[Whereas, therefore, this is the reason for specific monitoring of the effects of that introduction;]] [[noting that such monitoring cannot prevent people from being disadvantaged before additional measures are taken as a result of that monitoring;]] [[calls on the Government to consider how, in this case, justice can be given to those concerned,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Christmas. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35093-19]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Christmas. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35093-20]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Christmas. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35093-21]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u172	And then the last, chairman, in another genre. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[Whereas the introduction of the subscription rate in the Wmo is a step towards reducing the accumulation of healthcare costs;]] [[noting, however, that such accumulation is still significant, for example in the case of long-term dependency on care and support;]] [[calls on the Government, in consultation with patient and disability organisations as well as senior citizens' organisations, to consider ways of reducing or reducing the level and accumulation of care costs for people who are long-term dependent on care and support,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the member Christmas. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35093-22]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u173	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The last time the VWS Committee signed a parliamentary motion was that of my group on the occupation standard of two out of eight. So I think it is very good that this committee is coming together. I have just said that I do not think it is very concrete what needs to be done if that monitor shows that there is a shortage of financial resources. That is why I, one, tabled an amendment, which says: no AMvB that actually makes it possible for municipalities to try to remove the money for deficits from clients. Two. I have prepared a motion which also says what I think should be done with the financial deficits. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[If the monitor shows that the introduction and implementation of the subscription rate leads to financial deficits, the Government shall retroactively compensate it and find coverage in the expected benefits of care up to 2021,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been tabled by Mr Agema. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35093-23]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u174	Mr. Chairman. Exactly a week later than planned, we conclude the debate on the subscription rate. That is important, because with this bill, we are making sure that for a large group of people the costs of support go down considerably. And that's just good news. There are also concerns and they have been discussed extensively in the debate last week and again this afternoon. They are recorded in a motion and I too am glad that we were able to put them on paper with Chamberwide support. There are two other things that are important to the VVD. I have heard them in the Minister's extensive speech, but I think there is no harm in taking them out for a while. The first one. This bill regulates the reduction of costs for people, but it doesn't change the starting point of the law, namely customization and appropriate support for people who need it, after a conversation has taken place between the municipalities and the applicant for that support. That conversation between the applicant and the municipality was already important and is perhaps even more important as a result of the introduction of the subscription rate. Mr. Chairman. The second point. It is precisely for this reason that the VVD considers it important that the way municipalities conduct this conversation and thus also implement the Wmo 2015, is part of the monitor. We also need to get a picture of the differences between municipalities, so that, together with all the other information that comes out of the monitor, it gives us input to make that Wmo 2015 ever better. We are doing it in order to organise support more and more for those who need it so that they can continue to live their own lives as much as possible and continue to participate in the ordinary things in life.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u175	Thank you. Finally, Mr Geleijne.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank the Minister for the answers he has given, quite comprehensively. In particular, I would like to thank you for the commitment that additional financial resources will not be excluded if this proves necessary. Earlier in this second term, it has been recalled that the great goal is to prevent a accumulation of care costs for people at home. I'm curious how that's going to work out in practice. That's why I'd like to table the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that research carried out by the Social and Cultural Planning Bureau in the period 2015 to 2017 shows that 9% of the people who pay their own contribution to Wmo are in financial difficulties;]] [[having noted that a package of measures has been taken from 2018 with the aim of reducing the accumulation of healthcare costs;]] [[Whereas it is important to properly monitor the financial situation of people who have to pay their own contribution;]] [[calls on the Government to provide factual insight into the income effects of the package of measures for different target groups and to inform the Court thereof,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member of the Legion. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35093-24]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u177	Finally, Mr President. I thought the Minister was a little short, but he might be able to say a little more about providing information to clients, both from the Ministry as well as from the municipalities and the CAK. To that end, the next motion. [[Motion]] [[The Chamber,]] [[heard the debate,]] [[noting that the Ombudsman indicates that there is a great deal of uncertainty about the new rate in the Social Support Act;]] [[calls on the Government to encourage municipalities and the Central Administration Office to optimise communication on the new rate;]] [[and also calls on the Government to optimise communication from the Ministry of VWS,]] [[and goes to the order of the day.]] [[This motion has been proposed by the Member of the Legion. It seems to me that their submission is sufficiently supported.]] [[She's getting No. kst-35093-25]]
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u178	Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u179	Thank you. This brings us to the end of the second term of office. The Minister has indicated his intention to suspend for seven minutes, so we'll meet again at half past six.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u180	I give the floor to the Minister.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u181	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you also for your stretchiness and your bespokeness in the suspension, entirely in the spirit of the debate, because I think I have just taken an extra minute. I would like to go through the motions and the questions put by the Chamber in the second term. I'll start with the Heink c.s. motion. in piece No. 17. There are an impressive number of names under that motion, even names of people who have not taken part in this debate. At least not in a physical sense, but maybe they have chips and coke in front of the tube. Of course you can. I thank the Member Hijink cum suis for this motion. I believe that this motion, in this wording, reflects the balance that we have sought to maintain in the first period and that it actually brings an appropriate conclusion to the first period. We underline that the Minister has to be able to address the implications of a law for implementation practice. We stress that it is important to want to be involved in the effects in practice, and that, of course, no blank cheque, Mr van der Staaij, can be given in advance. Of course not, I'd like to say. At the same time, there is a responsibility to do what we have to do with the elaboration, implementation and results of the monitor, namely to take measures in conjunction with local authorities if there are obvious bottlenecks. These could be financial measures. These could be substantive measures. We don't get ahead of that and we don't run away from that. In my view, this motion in this wording is actually an appropriate conclusion to the debate in the first period. I would therefore like to leave the judgment on this motion. Then there is the question of whether, in the case of the grace provision, the same is true of day-to-day spending. Yeah, that's right. It is true that the same applies to day-to-day expenditure, namely that, in principle, if there is a certain frequency, a certain lasting relationship between aid workers should be regarded as covered by the subscription rate. Very often there will be a tailor-made provision, in which it will be covered by the subscription rate in any case. However, in a single situation, especially in the case of recess care, it may take place once or twice a year, for example. Then again the question is whether someone has been very helpful with it that it is covered by the subscription rate. So, as with day-to-day spending, the question needs to be looked at very precisely in municipalities: what type of care are we talking about here and what is the most logical thing to do here from a client's point of view? Is it always a maximum of €19? No. But is it logical that it becomes part of the definition of a lasting relationship if there is a certain frequency in it? Yes, I do, indeed. This would be covered by the subscription rate. Imagine that it is not covered by the subscription rate and that the own contribution is higher, then again what I mentioned, especially in the direction of Mrs Ellemeet, is true. At that time, the discussion takes place on the question: is this an appropriate form of support? If someone simply cannot afford it, it is therefore not an appropriate form of support and can always be called upon by the municipality in the form of a tailor-made provision. In short, in the end the same applies there and we simply need to ensure that these facilities remain accessible to the people who need them, because that is what this is about. Then I am with Mrs Ellemeet van GroenLinks' questions. She is actually asking again about the minimum regulation. I have said that this bill does not really do anything about it. With the abolition of the Wtcg and the Cer in 2014, municipalities have been provided with a structural allocation of 268 million to enable financial tailor-made work. That was previously contained in regulations. This was then given to municipalities to make minimum regulations. That's what congregations have done to their hearts. We see them in all kinds of forms. This bill does not take away any opportunities to do anything about it. With this bill, those possibilities remain. In 2018, there were 45 municipalities applying minimum policies to the Wmo. In 2019 there are currently 52. Through the monitor we do have the finger on the wrist to keep how this continues. There is no prohibition in the direction of municipalities to deal with this differently. Of course not. Space is here. We need to see how municipalities deal with this in practice. The municipal councils are the move. That is not so much a question as a statement by Mrs Ellemeet. She says that GroenLinks thinks that the strongest shoulders, the broadest shoulders, should carry the biggest shoulders and that I would see that differently. That's not true, because I agree. At the Wmo we see that we want to do something about that part of the people who are reluctant to appeal to the Wmo at all because of their own contribution. We want to do something about the extent to which the accumulation of healthcare costs in people leads to substantial healthcare costs. This will meet people with high care costs. That's one. But who pays for those people with high care costs? That is, of course, still regulated through taxes. We have extremely progressive taxes in the Netherlands. So it is true that the heaviest, the widest or the most muscular shoulders, the most voluminous shoulders, whatever you want to call it, carry the heaviest loads here. This is inherent in our tax system. So I share that statement and I think that this is a wonderful implementation of it. Mr Van der Staaij gives his consideration, a poem of praise, I would say, to the motion that has been tabled. He stressed the willingness of thirteen political groups in this Chamber to cooperate. That's impressive indeed. I spoke this week to my colleague Jens Spahn, who is looking with some concern at the number of political groups that should be taking decisions here in Parliament. Can it actually work with so many groups? My English colleague said earlier: can we cooperate with so many groups? At that time, I said that we can do better than you can do within one party at the moment. Never underestimate the power of the Dutch coalition policy, because we are quite good at that. Then I'll go to the motion in part no. 18, which calls on the government to enter into consultation with the UNG and patient organisations to clarify the concept of "sustainable aid relationship." Let me say that I do not intend to give any further, more legal explanation. I think we just gave that legal explanation to each other. That is the law, the explanatory memorandum and the legal history. That is the legal explanation we are giving at the moment. At the same time, I read the motion, it is about doing what I already intended to do in consultation with municipalities and with client organisations, namely to clarify this, to help in how you communicate about it and to give the clarification at municipal level in all these different implementing modalities. What should you want to see as a lasting aid relationship? I can actually imagine a great deal about this motion. I think it helps to involve client organisations. Under that condition, I would like to give this motion judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u182	The motion in part No. 18 gets judgment Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u183	Then there is a question from Mrs Bergkamp of D66, a complicated question. I hope I understand that. The change in the own contribution system does not affect industrial relations in a pgb-funded institution. There is therefore no change. This is independent of collective agreements and the general declaration of collective agreements.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u184	Maybe I can ask the Minister to take another look at this and come back to it in writing. It is about the discussion about whether or not to have a housing component, whether or not to be covered by sheltered housing and the consequences for old initiatives and other pgb-funded initiatives, for example. Maybe I can ask the Minister. There are concerns. We have also been reminded of this by Per Balance. It would be nice to get a little more depth in that. This debate is not entirely appropriate for that. It would be nice if the Minister would come back to that in writing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u185	There was a Christmas debate on parental initiatives and this type of housing initiative. Then I told you I'd come back before the summer with everything we agreed to do there. If I could include that question and then come back to it in your direction, I think that would be wise, because then I can put it in that context too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u186	I don't think that's a problem. In particular, it is important that it no longer falls within the scope of protected housing and what the consequences of its initiatives for pgb-financed with and without a housing component are.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u187	Yes. Okay. Then I'll go to the motions of the Labour Party. First of all, the motion in part No. 19, which calls on the Government to ensure that the introduction of the subscription rate does not directly or indirectly lead to the disadvantage, in financial terms or otherwise, of people with a minimum income. When I heard this motion like that, I found the tone quite bleak. So many people are getting ahead of themselves with the subscription rate. The tone of this motion is then very bleak. But more importantly, the balance in the motion in part No. 17 was found better than in the motion in part No. 19. I would also like to discourage the motion for a resolution for that reason. This one is absolutely formulated.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u188	The motion in part No. 19 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u189	Then the motion to part No. 20, which asks the government to ensure that municipalities go to care providers in the Wmo at a real rate or continue to pay. We just have an AMvB for real rates. An AMvB has power of law, so that AMvB has more power of expression than adopting a motion over it. The assumption in the first recital is that 30% of the municipalities would not pay a real rate. I can't test that assumption. I don't know where it came from. There's gonna be a reading of what's really going on. It will come in the short term: in April or May will be the first measurement I had agreed with you. That measurement is part of the major investigation that we started. In short, it has my attention, but the rule of law is already laid down in the AMvB, which is firmer than recording it by motion. Very soon we will come up with a measurement. I would advise against this motion for a resolution for those reasons.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u190	Short. The approximately 30% I mention in the motion is, to be exact, 30.4%. That percentage is mentioned in the recent investigation of Berenschot. The Minister is aware of this, because he replied in writing. This motion is motivated by the fear that almost the whole debate has been about, namely that if municipalities do not have sufficient financial resources to properly implement the subscription rate, the pressure could be placed elsewhere, including at the rates. Municipalities can think: if I have to get my money from somewhere, I'm going to print more on the rates. There is indeed a general measure of governance, but we talk about this regularly for a reason. If you put it on paper, it is not yet settled in practice.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u191	But that also applies to a motion. We've already committed it in an AMvB. There is a stronger power of expression than another motion. I would think: we have both the research about the AMvB on real rates and a monitor that also shows the effects in practice. Where it would be about the care about the deterioration of the facilities, that would be evident from the monitor. Where it would be about whether the AMvB is carried out in practice to the mind and the letter, we will know that through the research that has been deported. In fact, we know that in the short term. In short, I really advise against this motion because it does not do justice to those efforts.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u192	I disagree, but the Minister's considerations are clear to me. Did I just hear him say in an intermediate sense that this monitoring also looks at possible pressure on the rates as a result of the introduction of the subscription rate? That is just the run-up to the motion as I have tabled.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u193	The run-up to your reasoning is actually "because that might lead to disruption." The monitor shows whether there are municipal movements, how municipalities give form and content to the execution of the subscription rate and what measures are being taken there. That's one. The question whether municipalities actually meet that AMvB real price simply arises in the investigation of the AMvB real price; exceptionally straight. So here we come, I fear, to discuss it with each other. But when there are signals, I always like to really exercise them on facts, because I hear many more signals than there are actual facts that justify those signals. Nor can I completely escape the impression that it is sometimes used in a certain lobby. In short, always take a good look at what's really going on. That's the lesson I've learned from all the signals I've had in recent times. And that's why I'm doing the research. I don't recommend the motion. Then the motion to part No. 21, which requests the Government to consider ways in which justice can still be given to those concerned. Then it is about being approached directly or indirectly. Yes, that actually leads to the same answer as in the motion for a resolution on item No. 19. I advise against this motion. I find the motion in part No. 17 more balanced, and we're not doing the monitor for nothing.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u194	The motion in part No. 21 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u195	Then the motion to part No. 22 which invites the Government, in consultation with patient and disabled organisations, to consider ways of reducing or reducing the level and accumulation of healthcare costs. I'm going to brief you on the request. We have included a rather comprehensive package of measures in the coalition agreement, namely the flat own risk. Its own risk is no longer rising. So we're dealing with a fixed risk of our own. We lower the marginal rate in the Wlz and we lower the capital income add-on in the Wlz. We'll enter the subscription rate if you vote for it in the Wmo. It seems to me that we are taking a number of measures together. So that's really a whole package. In addition, of course, we have the committee on the future of care for the elderly at home. It should take a close look at the whole range of measures in the context of its own contribution to the elderly. Because of course there are differences between the Wmo/Zvw regime and the Wlz regime. This does not always make it easy to ease the transition between these legal systems. The explicit question of how to deal with it has been taken into account. This will not lead to a measure for the shorter term, but it may lead to a new regime in the longer term. So the motion in its present form I advise against.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u196	The motion in part No. 22 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u197	Then the motion to part No. 23. That's Mrs. Agema's motion. Here again, I say that I am referring to the motion in part No. 17 to be more balanced and to do more justice to our little debate in the first term. So this motion I'm deceiving, too.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u198	The motion in part No. 23 is not recommended.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u199	Then the motion to part No. 24, which calls on the government to provide factual insight into the income effects of the package of measures for the different target groups, and to inform the Court of Justice accordingly. I'll leave the verdict on this motion to the Chamber. Of course, I would like to show what is being asked, although it is always based on averages. But I would like to outline the impact, how many people, how many of the measures, as far as we can do from here. Because every family situation is different, of course. It is very dependent on the level of care use. But I think we can get that as close as we can. So the verdict on the motion in part No. 24, I'd like to leave it to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u200	The motion in part No. 24 gets judgment room. Then the motion to part No. 25.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u201	The motion in part No. 25 was initiated by two strange calls which I do not hear very often, namely 1. that the Minister was a little short, and 2. that there should be more intensive communication. Most of the time, the calls are the other way. So I actually like that in that context, that I would like to leave the judgment to the Chamber. And more seriously: the parties we all need to communicate about this law were not all equally fiercely enthusiastic. As soon as the law is passed, we will have to deal with each other again with the question of how we are going to ensure that we make every effort during the second half of this year to ensure that communication is as effective as possible. We also have a number of lessons to learn about the past period. You also pointed that out in the first term. We really have some things to do in preparation for January, so I'd like to move on to this motion.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u202	The motion in part No. 25 gets judgment room. Mrs Ellemeet has a question for you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u203	We were all able to read a few weeks or months ago that at VWS there are now 90 or 79 FTEs in the communication department; at least more than ever there were in this ministry in a communication department. We also see this in beautiful vlogs and all kinds of beautiful communication expressions. I would ask the Minister to at least interpret it in such a way that those huge numbers of people sitting in the communication department at the Ministry are going to do an enormous amount of work to do this properly.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u204	This is an incentive.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u205	Hey, that's too bad, Mr. Chairman. It was such a nice debate and what a pity it has to end like this. It certainly wasn't that much. That would really be a Bible story. That's really gonna be a miraculous multiplication. It's certainly not that many communication people. It had grown quite well, indeed. That's also because we have an extra executive on VWS. It also has to do with the fact that we run a number of communication campaigns that other departments outsource to others, so that is also a reason. Anyway, I'm not gonna be very defensive about it. I see it as an incentive to do even more beautiful things with the people we have, and with whom we are indeed very blessed. That's how I read the motion, and that's how we're gonna get on with it. I won't use this as an excuse to pull any more FTEs on the payroll. We won't. I would like to comment on something that Mrs Hermans raised, with the question of whether she should hear it that way. This was particularly about customization that municipalities have to deal with. The good thing about the whole dispute we've had is that we're rethinking the basic principles or the underlying principles of this law and the Wmo. Of course, we often discuss the space that municipalities have, also in terms of care. What if in one municipality this and in the other municipality that? The principle enshrined in the law is that the municipality as the nearest government is given the task of doing customized work and with residents to sit down and look at what you need; not what do you deserve, but what do you need? That's actually something really nice. Does it always go well in practice? I don't think so. Is it just a starting point that we should want to honour each other? I think so. With this subscription rate, the inhibiting factor that the own contribution previously played on the extent to which people make use of it may fall away. This means that perhaps more emphasis will be placed on the content of the kitchen table conversation. Isn't that actually a very good thing? I would think so, so I very much agree with Mrs Hermans' conclusion. Mr. Chairman. I have come to the end of the answer to the questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u206	This brings us to the end of the treatment of this law.
ParlaMint-NL_2019-04-04-tweedekamer-8.u207	The law itself, the amendments and the motions tabled will be voted on next Tuesday. I thank the Minister for coming to the Chamber and suspending until 6 p.m.
