ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 52nd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. In order to record our participation, I have just checked you all out, and I ask you to sign up with your ID cards, or to tell me who's asking for a replacement card. The Organising Committee of the Chamber of Deputies set out a proposal for a 52nd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on 25 January of this year. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on the same day. And now we will proceed to the designation of two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we appoint Oldřich Černý and Mr Tom Philipp. Does anyone else have a suggestion? I don't see anyone reporting with another proposal to identify verifiers. That is why I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the proposed verifier? Who's against it? Voting number one, 110 in attendance, for 110. And I am of the opinion that we are the verifiers of the 52nd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies appointed by Oldřich Černý and Tom Philipp. I declare that until the opening of the meeting they have asked to apologise for their absence from meetings by the following Members: Babka Ondřej from the whole day due to foreign travel, Balaštíková Margita until 17 o'clock for working reasons, Bělor Roman from 15.30 to 19 o'clock for kolovratník Volný, Berki Jan from 15.30 to 9 o'clock for working štolpa, Brázdil Milan from the whole day for medical reasons, Bžoch Jaroslav from the whole Ivo day due to foreign travel, Carbol Jiří from the whole Metnar day for working Marek, Feranec Milan from the vlček Lukáš David for health reasons, Foldyna Jaroslav from the whole sitting day for health reasons, Hájek Jiří from the Liška working day Levko to Jarmila Lubomír, Havel Matěj Ondřej from the whole Petr day for the whole working day for the whole working day, for the whole working day, Hendrych Igor for the whole David for the whole family reasons, Jáč Ivan for the whole working day, for the whole working reason, Kolorozník Martin for the whole working reason, for the whole working day, for the whole day, for the whole day, for the whole working reason of the whole day, Karel Karel's. From the members of the government apologize: Fiala Petr from 17.30 for working reasons, Balaš Vladimír from the whole day for health reasons, Baxa Martin from 17.15 for working reasons, Bek Mikuláš from the whole day for working reasons, Langšádlová Helena until 15.30 for working reasons, Lipavskýý Jan from the whole day for foreign travel, Nekula Zdeněk from the whole day for working reasons, Rakušan Vít from the whole day for personal reasons, Síkela Jozef from the whole day for personal reasons and Šalomoun Michal until 17 hours for working reasons. We will now proceed to the 52nd meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. First, I'll introduce you to the suggestions of today's grémium. Firstly, we propose to include new points in the proposal for a programme: House press 270/7, a bill amending Act No. 115/2001 Coll., on the promotion of sport, as amended, and some other laws - returned by the Senate. The legal time limits are met, from Tuesday 7 February the House's press can be discussed. House printing 374, Government bill amending Act No. 66/2022 Coll., on measures in the field of employment and social security in connection with armed conflict in the territory of Ukraine caused by the invasion of the troops of the Russian Federation, as amended, and other related laws in the first reading, namely into the block of the Law - first reading. The legal time limits are fulfilled and the House's press can be discussed from Tuesday, 7 February. Secondly, we propose the following procedure this week. Today, Tuesday 7. 2. start negotiations with the new item, House press 270/7, returned to the Senate, on promoting sport, and the new item - House press 374, first reading, on measures in the field of employment and social security in connection with armed conflict in Ukraine caused by the invasion of Russian Federation troops. Further continue points from the Act block - second reading, in order: item 2 of the draft programme, i.e. House printing 288, on the protection of employees in default of the employer; item 3 of the draft programme, i.e. the House printing 346, on electronic communications; and possibly continue points from the block of the Law - first reading. This ranking would then apply throughout the week: paragraph 13 of the draft programme, House press 371, on preventive restructuring; paragraph 14 of the draft programme, House press 372, on bankruptcy and its solutions; paragraph 5 of the draft programme, House press 350, on compensation for the effects of the covid-19 epidemic, pursuant to Section 90 para. 2; paragraph 9 of the draft programme, i.e. the House's press 366, on road traffic; paragraph 8 of the draft programme, House's press 362, Law on seed and seed circulation; paragraph 6 of the draft programme, House's press 360, on public auctions, and paragraph 7 of the draft programme, i.e. the House's press 361, on public auctions - related. In case of exhaustion of all these points, we propose to continue further points from the Act block - first reading, from point 15. Tomorrow, Wednesday, 8th. 2., discuss points from the block Laws - third reading, then possibly continue, as already mentioned, points from the block Laws - first reading in the specified order and then points according to the approved agenda. Finally, the Government, by its resolution number 43 of 18 January 2023, withdrew the Government's bill amending Act No. 258/2000 Coll., on the Protection of Public Health and on the Amendment of Certain Related Acts, as amended, House Press 96. So please cut points 1 and 89 of the draft programme, i.e. second and third reading. This need not be voted on, but we will not discuss these points. That's all on my side. [[There's noise in the room.]] I'm gonna ask you to keep your voice down. With replacement card number 38, President Marek votes Výborný. And so now there are a few attached to the agenda, and we would listen to their proposals. First of all, President Marek Benda is signed in, followed by President Schillerová with priority rights. Please, you have the floor. And once again, colleagues and colleagues, please keep the room down. In case you want to deal with anything, move your conversations to the lobby.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-000-000.u2	Madam President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to be as brief as possible, but in addition to the agreement that arose on the political grémium, I would like to present even more points for the government coalition. I have no objection to the way it is today. Tomorrow, when the third reading points are due, I propose that they be placed in the following order: first point 88, House press 312, association in political parties; then paragraph 86, House printing 249, public procurement; then paragraph 85, House printing 238, investment companies and investment funds; then paragraph 84, proposal by Members Patrik Nacher and others, Civil Code, House printing 48. So many tomorrows, with the fact that, of course, if it were to end, we would continue the first reading points, as the President has been ordered after the meeting of the Gremia. Furthermore, the second proposal is that, on Thursday, February 9, after the completion of written interventions or at 11 o'clock, two points from the block of first reading, namely paragraph 11, the Government's bill amending certain laws in the field of defence, the House's press 368, proposed the first reading in accordance with Section 90; also paragraph 12, the Government's draft law on the financing of the defence of the Czech Republic and on the amendment of other laws, the House's press 369. I think we're good for Thursday. The last proposal I have for Friday to discuss the third reading of paragraph 87, House Press 263, in simple terms, the draft law on Czech Television and Czech Radio, as the first point on Friday morning. These are the three proposals I have. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-000-000.u3	Thank you. So President Alena Schillerová is now registered, followed by President Okamura. Please, you have the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, please lower your voice in the room.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-000-000.u4	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Allow me to come before the Chamber of Deputies with a proposal to include a new item called Lack of Drugs and to ask for its inclusion as the first item on today's day. Now let me justify this point in front of you. As we all know, Czech hospitals and pharmacies have been struggling for several months with the lack or total absence of antibiotics, medicines for chronically ill patients, as well as completely common medicines for fever, including baby syrups. Unfortunately, the past weeks have confirmed that the Ministry of Health has not communicated, acted and is not active enough to address this urgent and serious, unfortunately, life-threatening problem conceptually. Since the Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek is not working, we called a representative of key professional chambers and professional associations to the Chamber of Deputies last week to help him find a solution. The participation of top representatives of the Czech health sector has clearly confirmed that everyone understands the lack of drugs as a big problem. Representatives of the Czech Medical Chamber, the Czech Pharmacy Chamber, the Czech Stomatological Chamber, the Czech Association of Pharmaceutical Companies, the Association of Health Insurance Companies, hospital directors, members of the Health Committee, as well as representatives of patients came. It is all the more alarming that the Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek, who is responsible for the situation, was the one who did not come and even sent any representative for himself. I can tell you that the experts were shocked and did not conceal during the meeting that such ignorance by the Minister had not yet been experienced, not only against the opposition, but also against those who work in the front line and who expect support from their minister, or at least some indication of strategy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-000-000.u5	So I didn't feel that it was so terrible, but please, colleagues and colleagues, about the silence. We may hear it differently in the O.R., but let the Prime Minister continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-000-000.u6	Thank you, Madam President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I consider the information placed by the Minister of Health on his Twitter account this morning. I quote the tweet of the Minister of Health of 7 February at 859: "I discussed yesterday with the Commissioner for Health Stella Kyriakides. The topic was clear, medicines and their lack in the EU. We agreed that we must also address the problem at EU level. At the turn of the year, we have called for the Swedish Presidency, the HERA authorities, the EMA, to resolve this. I will raise this issue at the meeting of the EU Council." Indeed, after the end of the six-month Presidency of the Czech Republic in the Council of the EU on February 7, 2023, do we learn from the Minister of Health that he will raise the issue of drug deficiencies at the meeting of the EU Council? While other EU countries have long acted, the Minister of Health of the Czech Republic reports that he intends to raise the issue in Europe? While other countries have long stopped exports from protecting domestic supplies. While other countries, such as Greece, have extended the list of drugs whose resale to other countries, known as parallel trade, is prohibited. While other countries, such as Romania, have temporarily stopped exports of certain antibiotics and painkillers for children. While Belgium, for example, adopted a decree that allows the authorities to stop drug exports in the event of a crisis. While the German Government is considering amending the law in order to flexibly adjust the requirements for public procurement, which are currently forcing health insurance companies to buy medicines where they are the cheapest, and to concentrate supplies in the hands of several of the most competitive manufacturers. The Minister for Health there has already announced that the Federal Government will set up such a price policy for medicines to pay distributors to withdraw current thinning supplies from other countries of Europe and rather sell them in Germany. In Germany, a legislative exception was also adopted, according to which medicines can also be issued on the German market in packages described in a language other than the German language. Thus, tens of thousands of doses of drugs and cones in the original packaging in English or French quickly reached German pharmacies. The necessary information in German is available on the Internet after scanning QR code on foreign-languagely described medications. While the Netherlands has adopted a law imposing on sellers the obligation to keep stocks for six weeks in order to bridge the shortage. Similar rules are prepared in Sweden. Not only in France, the government there is straining all its forces to convince pharmaceutical companies to move their production capacities. It is evident that in Europe, the struggle for which government negotiates as many supplies as possible for its citizens has flared up, that individual countries that have faced a similar problem as the Czech Republic are implementing functional measures that address this unacceptable situation. I ask if the Czech Republic can really afford such an unacceptable Minister of Health in this situation. What is the plan of the Czech Minister of Health? What is our government's plan of action for a longer-term resolution of drug shortages in our pharmacies and hospitals? We didn't see any plan. On the contrary, we see the Minister of Health and Prime Minister, who, before the problem, put their head in the sand, who lightens the problem because they either don't understand it or they don't want to understand it or both. In any case, the Minister of Health has failed and his message today that he will open the subject up to the Council of the EU is a mockery. Isn't this a threat to the state's critical infrastructure? [[14.20 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, I request that you place this extraordinary point. I ask - and I specify it as a point of the absence of a conceptual solution to the lack of medicine by the Ministry of Health, and please let us allow us to hear the Minister of Health when he has not arrived at a specially called round table organized by my honored colleagues, Professor Adámková, Professor Špičák, Dr Mašek and, of course, other colleagues who were present there, even if he had promised, and absolutely not with us, nor with this professional public, which is horrified, communicates with us. Let's hear what he's gonna do next. This concerns all the people, all the people in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-000-000.u7	Mr Okamura is next on the agenda and will be prepared by Minister Válek, who is subsequently prepared with priority rights. Please take your word for it, and I'll ask my colleagues and colleagues to keep it down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-000-000.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose on behalf of the SPD movement a few special points at the meeting of today's Chamber of Deputies. Firstly, I propose an extraordinary point called the Purple Government has deceived voters and is preparing unprecedented begging of citizens by increasing many taxes. Petr Fiala's ODS government plans for tax increases give citizens more specific outlines. Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura of the ODS said that his goal is to make changes in this area ready during this spring and to be effective from 1 January 2024. This means raising taxes, with all parties to the government's five-calice before the elections promising not to increase taxes in any way. So they clearly cheated the voters. According to the information available, it should be done by the government to increase value added tax, i.e. VAT, i.e. it will become more expensive for many types of goods and services by moving the reduced VAT rate up a few percentage points. The Fialův government wants to increase people's water and sewers, it wants to increase people's medicine, infantry supplies, draft beer, books, and other goods and services. The government has admitted that it is also considering increasing the real estate tax, which they have so far collected in their budgets, and can regulate the amount of property tax. Minister Stanjura of the ODS, he is also Vice-President of the ODS, demanding that its possible increased yield be the income of the state budget and not of cities and municipalities. Stanjura stated on his official Facebook page in 2021 that the idea of raising real estate tax is really dangerous and that he does not understand why the state should punish someone for buying housing. That means, right here, we see the Vice-President of the ODS and the Minister of Finance lying live. Minister Stanjura also admitted that the government could also increase the contributions to health and social insurance for businessmen, the so-called self-employed, which would significantly increase the tax burden on businessmen and would be a liquidation measure for a large part of them. So the government is also totally against all businessmen and small entrepreneurs, and in this case, it would also be an unprecedented violation and denial of the pre-election promises of the Fialův's five-calice government. The SPD movement strongly protests against any tax increases to Czech citizens and companies, and we demand that the government combine its proposals for tax increases with a request for confidence. So once again, I would like to repeat my first special point, which I would like to propose at today's meeting, the title is: the Purple government has tricked voters and is preparing unprecedented begging of citizens in the form of raising many taxes, and I would like to put it first today. As another point, extraordinarily, at today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, I would like to propose, on behalf of the SPD, a point called Under the poverty line, 40 percent of single parents already live, and the Fialův Government is not trying to help them effectively. That's the name. According to the results of the PAQ Research survey, income poverty is the main threat to single parents' households, but also to senior citizens, as well as to disabled fellow citizens. 40 percent of single parents already live below the poverty line, with about 336,000 children growing up with one parent. Individuals are therefore forced to limit their own life needs only to the minimum necessary and have no financial reserves. Any unexpected expenditure or revenue outages may have fatal consequences for them and their children. It is a sad fact that the Fialův government is not trying to help single parents effectively while supporting unnecessary spending. This is totally unacceptable and it is evidence of the disinterest of the government of Petr Fiala from the ODS of citizens who are forced to raise children under adverse conditions. The main blame for this situation can be attributed not only to Prime Minister Petr Fial of ODS, but also to Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and also to Chairman of KDU-ČSL Marian Jurečka. The five-calice government has made the basic needs of Czech citizens extremely expensive, and it cannot help even the most socially threatened of them, including because of the fact that its incompetent policy has brought the authorities to the brink of collapse the jobs that are in charge of social support and helping people in need. The SPD movement calls for the resignation of an incompetent ministerial minister and chairman of KDU-ČSL Marian Jurečka, while presenting a solution to the situation of families with children at risk of poverty. These are our proposals and a combination of our proposals to reduce their tax burden, reduce housing, energy and food by reducing value added tax and increasing child and family social benefits to decent and working citizens. We have already submitted relevant bills to the legislative process here in the House, but the Fialův coalition is constantly blocking our proposals. So once again: at today's meeting as paragraph 2, an extraordinary point for the SPD, I propose a point under the poverty line that 40 percent of single parents live, the Fialův government is not trying to help them effectively. As the third extraordinary point at today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, I propose a point called the Fialův Government Five-Calice proposes to increase retirement age to 68 years, which would be the highest retirement age in Europe. It's cynical and antisocial ruthlessness. To that end, I will begin by saying that the SPD is fundamentally opposed to this. Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and Chairman of KDU-ČSL Marian Jurečka as well as other government officials are promoting an increase in the age limit for retirement over the current 65 years. According to the draft pension reform of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, this border should be moved up to 68 years. The pension age line would thus be the highest in the Czech Republic in Europe. Some countries are 67 years old, but France, for example, is 62 years old. Now there's a debate going on that they would increase to 64 years, and there's a massive demonstration of citizens who don't want it. For the SPD movement, any increase in the limit for entitlement to an old-age pension is absolutely unacceptable, on the contrary, we are demanding that it be maintained for 65 years or, if necessary, a reduction. We refuse to allow Czech citizens to be forced to work under difficult conditions until very old age at the expense of deserved rest. One of the key arguments for us is that while the overall life expectancy is increasing slowly in the Czech Republic, the so-called life expectancy in health has remained practically the same for about 50 years. They add years to life, but not life to summers, briefly and briefly. In men, the so-called life expectancy in health is now 61 years on average, and in women it is 62 years, as indicated by information from the Czech Statistical Office and the Ministry of Health. This means that the current limit of 65 years of retirement age is high from this point of view, and any consideration about its further increase is just another cynical and antisocial ruthlessness towards Czech citizens by the current Fialův's five-coal government, which is still unable to prepare and approve long-term deferred pension reform. [[14.30 hours]] And here I have to pause briefly for the incredibly arrogant and antisocial expression of the President of the House and the TOP 09 Pekarová Adamová, who, on Sunday two days ago in a game on Prima, on the legitimate plea of Vice-President Radim Fiala, imagined that people would look, at sixty seven, sixty-eight years of work, Mrs Pekarová Adamová replied arrogantly, that people do not have to stay in one job all their lives. Well, that's unbelievable what House President Mrs. Pekarová Adamová here dares to do to the citizens. And how do you expect manual workers to look for work when they're sixty-eight years old? So what other manual work are they supposed to do, when many citizens will not be able to bend, because the health after a lifetime of hard work, after a lifetime of hard work, doesn't that even make it possible anymore? The arrogance of the very highest representatives of the Fialův government five-calice is striking in the eye, and I am not surprised that Mrs Pekarová Adamová, President of the House and TOP 09, is the least trusted politician in the Czech Republic and that the vast majority of people no longer trust you, because it is incredible, your way of expressing yourself, how you constantly spit in the face of decent people. So I would repeat that I propose as a point, as the third extraordinary point at the Chamber of Deputies meeting today, a point called Fialův's five-calice government proposal to increase retirement age to 68 years, which would be the highest retirement age in Europe. It's cynical and antisocial ruthlessness. In addition to this, I would perhaps add to my proposal, the third point, that, as the Fialův Government's confidence in citizens declines, according to the latest survey, it trusts you only a little more - or about - 20 percent of citizens in the Czech Republic, so the Fialův Government is increasingly using fraudulent methods against political competition. Most recently, and I really had to laugh deeply, the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan - and thus the Fialův government, because he is the Vice Prime Minister of the Fialův Government, Chairman of the STAN movement - put the SPD in a report on extremism. And when I read why the SPD is given by the Fialův Government in the report on extremism, it is because the SPD in the second half of the year focused on criticism of the price increase, the energy crisis, which means criticism of the government's failure to address expensive energy, and the war in Ukraine, that means we want peace and we don't want war. That is why the SPD is listed in the report on extremism. There's nothing else specific in that report to our address. This means, the Minister of the Interior and Vice Prime Minister of the Fialův Government Vít Rakušan - and his partner here, for example, is also Mrs Pekarová Adamová of the TOP 09 - openly abused, even with Prime Minister Fiala, desperately, desperately abused by the Ministry of the Interior for attacks against political competition. Those wannabe democrats, pseudo-democrats, have fallen so far. With these methods, we return to deep totalitarianism with the Fialův Government, and I think the Fialův Government should immediately put it down, because if you can't do it, if you can't do it through political, democratic means, then you go through totalitarian methods and use the worst methods of the 1950s. You are already using censorship, opinion bullying, abuse of the Ministry of the Interior to eliminate opinional and political competition. By the way - It is difficult to say for itself - but based on about two days old survey of the Center for Public Opinion Research of the Academy of Sciences, CVVM, 43 percent of Czech citizens trust me, by the way, I am just the second most trusted politician in the Czech Republic. So the arrogance of the Fialův Government that you called 43 percent of the citizens of the Czech Republic extremists is an absolutely incredible situation. You, half the people, almost half the people in the Czech Republic, call their opinions extremism, so you're already desperate, so you're going down. And I can only laugh about it because you're kicking around, and instead of working for the citizens, instead of bringing something positive to the citizens, here the House President Mrs Pekarová Adamová recommends taking two sweaters, then she tells Prima on TV that the government is not for people, now she's going to say to the 68-year-old people, she doesn't have to be in one job to find another when you want to raise your retirement to 68-year-olds - that's extremism. That's extremism, as it were, Madame Pekarová. And to look into a dictionary like foreign words, which means extreme, I'm going to instruct you. It's when someone promotes opinions outside the mainstream. And according to all the surveys and confidence of your government, the one who's completely out of control here is you with your distrust of 65 percent of the citizens. So I'd like to go to another point, I'd like to propose another extraordinary point. It is point 4, the fourth extraordinary point at today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and the item has the title Number of illegal immigrants was record for the Czech Republic last year. The number of illegal migrants to the Czech Republic was record-breaking last year, 29 235 people. The foreign police of the Czech Republic revealed 29 235 foreigners during illegal immigration last year, 18 065 more than in 2021 and even more than in 2015-2016, i.e. the biggest migration crisis so far. According to information from foreign police among illegal immigrants, Syřan clearly prevail with a certain kind of temporary protection in Turkey and among smugglers are the most Ukrajinec. As the security of the external borders of the so-called Schengen area against illegal immigration is long-term inoperable, and the SPD draws attention to this over the long term, and many EU Member States do not comply with migration rules and legislation, the SPD movement demands permanent control of our national border within the security of the country and Czech citizens. Here I would just like to remind you that the SPD has been drawing attention for years to the malfunction of the European Union's border control area, the Schengen area, and it was the parties of the five-police government, Petr Fiala, who have consistently claimed the opposite and called for a Union solution. They keep saying to wait for Brussels. You lied again, or you were naive, or incompetent, it's a punch like hit, because the result is that the number of illegal migrants to the Czech Republic was record - record, 29 235 people last year. And I am suggesting this extraordinary point here, because I would like to ask in the discussion of the representatives of the government: Will the government, therefore, press on to change the migration policy of the European Union? Because you have been agreeing with it all along or defending it, but the dog is too benevolent for the migration policy of the European Union, because in other super-advanced, democratic countries like Japan, Australia does not have these problems, because of course, where there is no supply, there is no demand. And these are three times higher salaries than in the Czech Republic, and they are countries surrounded by many, many developing countries. But there is no migration wave, because the smugglers, if any, have nothing to offer, and logically, why anyone would go where they wouldn't get asylum anyway. So I'd like to ask you what the concept is, because now it's cold, now the current of course it's freezing, somehow over the winter it's always muted, but spring is coming. We have February, which means there is a clear expectation that the migration wave will grow again and can grow to record proportions. And I was here as chairman of the Committee on Petitions, we accepted on our committee at the request of the Turkish Party representative of the Committee on Petitions from Turkey - and it was not just me, there were representatives of the ODS, there was a representative of the ANO movement - and there was a direct question of how, therefore, the solution to the huge number of migrants, essentially in the millions that are on the territory of Turkey, the Syřan and others, so the Turkish party answered us in a straight line, the Turkish MEPs answered us in a straight line: You should take care of them. So Turkey has a clear political perspective on this. You should - well, it's part of their jihad, spread Islam, right, of course, to Europe, and so on. After all, Erdogan doesn't even hide from such opinions. [[14.40 hours]] But I would like to know, because your nonsense that the Fialův Government and EU leaders have said here, that it will pay to Turkey for fire and that it will somehow be dealt with - that will not be solved, because the ideology, the ideology of Islam and the ideology of Turkish leadership, is completely clear, political lines, political ideologies - just Evropan should take care of it. Not Saudi Arabia, rich, not Emirates, but Europe should take care of it. That is, which is why I'm giving this extraordinary point of what you want to do about it, because appealing to some... asylum and migration policy of the EU just doesn't work. I've been telling you this since 2015, and you've all been attacking me here that Okamura's making up this whole migratory thing, that's what you've been saying. In the end, it turns out that I was right and that it came to my exact words. So I'm asking you, what do you want to do about it? What are you gonna do about it? This means item number 4 - I propose an extraordinary point for today's meeting, a point entitled Number of illegal immigrants to the Czech Republic was record-breaking last year, 29 235 people. As the fifth extraordinary point of today's House of Deputies' meeting, I propose a point called the Purple Government upholds the law to drag us into war. This week, the House is to discuss the government's proposal for defence legislation, which fundamentally amends certain laws in the field of defence. It's supposed to be on Thursday, but from our point of view, the SPD is such a serious issue that we want to discuss it today, because on Thursday - you're pushing it back to strength, and I think it takes a lot of time, and we know that you're pushing it here at any cost to get through it as quickly as possible, you don't want to give space to the opposition or to discuss it, you want to shorten it, that negotiation. That is why I have decided, we have decided in the SPD that we will propose this as an extraordinary point today to give us the opportunity to discuss. The most fundamental government proposed amendment is a change in the law of competence, where a new job is established at the Office of the Government, inter alia, by the National Security Advisor, who is the Secretary of the Security Council of the State. This scope is extremely strong, by the way, at a time when the Prime Minister for National Security is appointed, a member of the ODS Tomáš Pojar. In the other four laws, the government wants, among other things, to regulate the deployment of soldiers outside our territory, to provide military transport for foreign states, to collect information about our citizens from ministries and from various databases led by them, but in particular to call for predetermined soldiers in reserve within three days. To war, to call to war, and only on the basis of extraordinary government measures, i.e. without declaring a state of threat or without a state of war with the consent of the House. This government proposal states an exception, for example, to MEPs and MEPs, i.e. those who send soldiers to war. It's just a guinea pig. The changes proposed in this way are absolutely essential, because they make it very easier to bring the Czech Republic into war, and they need to be rejected. Moreover, the five-wheelers want to discuss them in the short-term, as I said, which, in my opinion, cannot be discussed in the short-term. We're clearly against it. This Fialův government just wants to bring us into conflict in Ukraine at all costs, and that needs to be clearly rejected. And we repeat under the SPD that we want peace and we don't want war. So, as the fifth point at the House of Deputies meeting today, I propose a point called the Purple Government is enforcing a law that wants to drag us into war. And of course we are also dealing here, we have been dealing with a lack of medicine in the Czech Republic since last year. We were just discussing this at a press conference. We've already proposed a point to deal with the lack of medicine here repeatedly. For us, this item will be proposed by Dr. Síla, our Member, who will also explain it in detail, and the Minister of Health from TOP 09 Vlastimil Válek should finally stop sticking his head in the sand and finally resolve the matter, or resign because when people import drugs from Slovakia, Poland and Germany, so your lies, Minister, that is a global problem, keep them for someone else, say that to you in TOP 09 and to you in the government. It is simply the fatal failure of Prime Minister Fiala and Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek. You're also the vice prime minister of the government, which is why you're responsible, the whole government is responsible, and you just neglected that thing, you totally bailed. I don't know what you're doing there. You play your games on your cell phone, but you don't work for the citizens at all, and you have some nicknames here with the secretary that you -- what was that? That you're a cheetah or a leopard or some kind of animal. You guys are just making fun of this, but here's a really serious problem. We already have a point to explain here the lack of medicine and what you intend to do about it, and especially to take some responsibility from it, we have already proposed here in December, we proposed it in January, we propose it in February, but it still takes, but especially compared to the surrounding countries, that is, it is a total failure of your government. And the worst part is that it concerns not only seniors who - today the situation is like this, Minister, you're out of your mind, obviously the seniors get prescribed medications and leave some drugs on the counter at the dispensary, because they don't even have the money for them anymore. It is a terrible situation that you have put the Czech Republic into. Seniors choose between buying food or the medicine they need, so they prefer to buy food because they can't be at all without food, but ask the pharmacy what it looks like. So are the kids. Children have a temperature and so on and go to Poland to buy medicine. But people from the Moravian-Silesian Region can do that, they tell me what lives somewhere in Třinecko, Český Těšín and so on, but how are people supposed to do it elsewhere? That is, I would like that point to be proposed - I have already proposed it here several times, but today Dr. Síla, our MP, will propose it for us - so that you agree with him about the lack of medicine. Now that Secretary Válek's here, you shouldn't just sit here and play some of your games again, but finally explain how it's all gonna be. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-000-000.u9	Minister Válek is now with priority rights and followed by President Radim Fiala. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-000-000.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members, before I get to the current situation, allow me to repeat the causes of the lack of medicine, because, judging by some of the social media contributions and the speeches that have been made here, unfortunately, some of these causes are still unclear, even to some of you. The first problem is significantly higher illness, doctors in our ranks know this, doctors from the opposition know it, doctors from the coalition know it, disease from flu diseases and others have increased significantly. We could have prepared for that, and we prepared for that, and I'll explain how. The problem, which was much bigger and is much bigger, is the manufacturing reasons where a number of medicines lack some of the components of the drugs or packaging material. The reason why this is happening is covid, both, because in China, some relationships have completely broken up, so the supply of active substances from Asia has essentially stopped. Supply chains have been disrupted, not only from Southeast Asia, so this shortage is not only in Europe, but also overseas, it is in the United States, it is in Australia, it can be easily traced, and we have been dealing with this problem at European Union level since the beginning of December. I've raised the subject. You may recall that I have drawn attention here to the fact that we would like to start a debate within our Presidency on joint purchases of medicines for the European Union precisely to increase the resilience of the European market. I am pleased that I am gradually getting the signatures of other fellow ministers for this activity, and I am pleased that this item will be included in the EPSC Presidency, which followed us, by the Swedish Presidency. [[14.50 hours]] The problem, which is the third, is the lack of manufacturer planning. It should be noted that the production of drugs is planned in advance. With some very simple drugs, it's about six months ahead, but most medications are pre-planning when the drug is made for that period, 12 to 18 months. Those of you who are doctors know that, those of you who are pharmacists, they also know that, the others may not know it, so now I'm giving them this information. It is easy to verify, easy to detect, easy to document. The production process is that the company produces the cure gradually for individual countries in the world. Mostly for large countries production lasts for weeks, within a month, for small countries then the production takes two, three, four days so that the drug always has the appropriate batch, it has the packaging, it has the instructions. It was very well said here that the instructions must be in the language of the country. You will remember that during the last parliamentary term we had discussions about this, we changed some legislation for this. It's an easy to verify fact again. If an error occurs in the supplier-customer chains or in individual chains - where an active substance is produced in one country, unfortunately many of them are produced in China, in another country packaging is produced, in another country there is a completion - so the batch will just hit one of those countries, there is simply no specific cure. Therefore, in some countries one type of antibiotic is missing, in others another type of antibiotic. Unfortunately, there are countries of the European Union that are missing cytostatics, and they lack some basic medicines to treat patients with haematopoietic disorders. And, of course, for some medicines that are freely available on the market, there is no way to regulate their price other than the market, and this is the case all over the world. A typical example is Nurofen - there was a panic that led to the purchase of the drug. That means we sold out a supply of Nurofen in less than a month, which normally is enough for six months. Again, it's easy to track and easy to detect. Then, unfortunately, this medicine was missing. In 2022, more drugs arrived in the Czech Republic to treat respiratory diseases than in 2020 or 2021. So the current situation is partly due to the fact that there were no stocks at all. Just the deliveries in 2020, 2021 were so small, and it's logical. There was a covid here, and no one thought about it, so we didn't even have any supplies. We need to realize that the expiration of some of these drugs is two, three years, which means the drugs may be in the drugstore supplies, but they weren't. At such a moment, the Ministry of Health has very limited powers to do about it, but this is the legacy of my predecessors, but our ministry started to work very intensively on this at the beginning of last year. And yes, the result was what my colleague in Germany dreamed of, my colleague in Belgium dreamed of. We can deliver on the basis of the law that we have adopted - and thank you very much for that, ladies and gentlemen, we accepted it quickly - on the basis of this law I can deliver the medicine from virtually any country that has the medicine approved in the Czech Republic at the same time. Yes, it may be a cure with a Greek description, French, English, German, and I can determine the price of the drug so that I can determine what it plans that sometimes the German Minister of Health will do, as she has mentioned here, by your means, President Schillerová, so I can do and do. I wear to the government lists of drugs that have been obtained, and let's say overpay the market, buy them for Czech citizens and bring them to the Czech Republic, and the government regularly approves this. So the result is that we imported hundreds of thousands, hundreds of thousands of packs of different types of penicillin antibiotics, but we also imported a pack of antibiotics for children in syrup. Last week we distributed 20,000 such packages. And by dealing directly with manufacturers since the middle of December, we have managed to import a number of medicines that are free on the market. A typical example is Nurofen, when we imported over and above what was made for the Czech Republic, 400,000 packages of Nurofen, 400,000! 400,000 packs of Nurofen, i.e. for any child who might hypothetically need it, one pack. And we distributed this Nurofen across the board to all pharmacies. Well, I'd like to say that we're doing our utmost to ensure enough drugs, not me, but the entire Department of Health and all those who are working hard on it. Every week, I deal repeatedly with various manufacturers, distributors and teams I've assembled do the same thing. We regularly inform the pharmacy chamber, regularly inform the Practicing Doctors' Association, because they are those who prescribe the medications for outpatient treatment, we regularly inform the Association of practical physicians for children and adolescents. And those of you who specialize in this field and sit in our ranks know this very well because the information goes to them. Both these associations and the pharmacies are working really hard with the Ministry of Health, and every week the pharmacies and these doctors receive up-to-date information, which type from the range of penicillin antibiotics and other groups with which problems are at our disposal, which they can prescribe. Therefore, I would recommend to every citizen of the Czech Republic if he goes to a doctor and he prescribes a penicillin antibiotic, for example, to ask the doctor at the same time whether this antibiotic is currently available at that particular moment, or it is more appropriate to prescribe a variant of this different, different type from the range of penicillin antibiotics, as I mention further, which is available. We send this information operationally online and we speed up the information so that information occurs in order of days, or in one day this information occurs. Similarly, we have accelerated administrative steps considerably, so we are able to deliver the medicine within a few days, register it, determine its remuneration and distribute it to the pharmacies. Here it is necessary to thank distributors who have gone beyond their obligations to meet our demands, which we are now transforming into legislation, which I will submit to the Chamber of Deputies in the first half of this year. This legislation will ensure the resilience of the Czech market at a much higher level. Unfortunately, I don't have it yet, but it's really not my fault. Too bad my predecessors didn't think about it. I'm worried about this thing myself. I may not be a senior yet, but I still take a number of medications, and I want those medications not just for me, but for my children, for my four children, for my grandson, for everyone I care about to be available, but I want it, first of all, as a doctor. Yes, I'm an MP, I'm the Minister of Health, but I'm a doctor. I'm a doctor who took the Hippocratic Hippokratův, and it obliges me to do everything for my patients no matter what position I am in and in. Perhaps some of you don't see it that way, but every doctor in this House, and I am firmly convinced of it, feels and feels that way. It doesn't matter which political party they sit in. Mr Dvořáček Dvořáček I have set up a special working group, which consists of all these representatives, which meets regularly and informs at press conferences about the steps we take in specific weeks. Based on the discussion of this group and the current situation, we regularly send this information to the pharmacies network and to all doctors. We are dealing with pharmaceutical manufacturers, not only me and the Deputys, but also the Prime Minister in the case of some manufacturers. Thanks to negotiations with manufacturers and distributors, the supply of pharmaceuticals has also been accelerated, because the deliveries are scheduled for months, for each quarter, to dramatically speed up some of the deliveries and ensure their extraordinary delivery, in the category of antibiotics in the order, as I said, hundreds of thousands of packages. Last week, as I was saying, 20,000 packs of infant penicillin antibiotics were delivered, another 40,000 packs of Nurofen were delivered. I could go on like this. [[15.00 hours]] In the last six weeks, we have managed in this extraordinary way to obtain azithromycin, amoxicillin, standard V-penicillin or amoxicillin with clavulanic acid and other antibiotics from the penicillin series, colleagues know what I'm talking about. More deliveries are on the way, and we will not let go of the effort, because the situation is not good, and I have pointed out that it is not good throughout Europe, all over the world. It is simply a fact that the problem with the availability of antibiotics is easily verifiable throughout the European Union and in a number of non-European countries. It's easy for everyone to get that information from the relevant ministries, they have it on their website. Whoever denies it is either unwilling and unable to verify the information or knowingly lies, which would be sad. And I believe no one in this House wants to lie consciously. At the turn of the year, the Ministry of Health has already called on the Swedish Presidency and the Council of the European Union to continue our initiative, which we have started, and to ensure that the readiness and response to health emergencies, i.e. to make HERA much more active in this regard. We want a Europe-wide solution that will be particularly beneficial for small states. We have dealt with a number of ministers. A number of countries have a problem in this regard. We have recently dealt with the Ministry of Austria, Finland, France, Latvia, Croatia, Slovenia, Spain, Germany, Greece. They all have similar or even greater problems than we do, and most of these countries do not have the legislation that we managed to prepare and submit last year. Yes, it was rightly said here that the Němec, unfortunately, must buy through the central tender procedure and cannot do what I did, and therefore I was able to import such a number of hundreds of thousands of packages of antibiotics. However, and I must point out, in the field of antibiotics at this point, there is no risk that the patient is not receiving treatment, and there is no cure, there is always an option. There's no way that's gonna happen in hospitalized patients, that's a pure lie, if anyone says so. There is no key essential medication, center medicine, oncological medication, rare medications that would be missing. We monitor and monitor the situation regularly. There is always an effective alternative, we just need to learn how to work with those effective alternatives. And now to communicate with the Ministry of Health and myself on the topic of dealing with drug shortages. Not only during January, I held a number of press conferences at the Ministry of Health on this subject, as well as after the government, but here in the Chamber of Deputies, I have been in the media, I have spoken repeatedly to journalists and, of course, to you colleagues, you know as well as I have. We have published a number of press releases, a number of information, overviews. However, the aim is not to provide overviews, the aim is to provide information to pharmacists and doctors on how to proceed, to provide this information now, and this is what we do and do well. And I am glad that both President of the Pharmacy Chamber and Chairman of the Association of Practice Doctors for Adults, Dr. Šonka, and the leadership of the Association of Practical Physicians for Children and Youth. Because, yes, I agree, children, that's what we have to think about, and especially for them, and not just for them, we have to have the drugs. I regularly inform the ministers and the Prime Minister about the steps to manage the blackout. I also appeared at press conferences after the government's meeting. Of course, I or my deputy Jakub Dvořáček have answered the questions of journalists about drugs, and we have always answered the press conferences on other topics, as well as outside them, where they ask us about these issues. I am dedicated to the subject on my social networks and I am very pleased that, by your means, Madam President, Mrs Schillerová, President Schillerová is drawing information from them and is trying to learn from them. Thank you. Of course, the Ministry of Health's press department is fully available to the media and their questions. So now, and I am not entirely comfortable, but nevertheless something about the action of the ANO 2011 parliamentary club. I am sorry, I am sorry that I think that the members of the YES have become unnecessarily angry and that, by your means, the President of the YES has been upset. I'm sorry this is the situation, but I wasn't really invited to this event. If anyone says so, I really didn't get any official written invitation, she didn't come to the Ministry of Health, I didn't confirm participation, I didn't get one. Please, if you sent her, show me the invitation where I confirmed my attendance. If you haven't sent it to me and I haven't confirmed the attendance, please, let's not say these things. Yes, Professor Adámková told me she was going to make a round table on Thursday, and that ended our phone conversation. I'd be happy to let you go, I've got him on tape - yes, because most of my calls are recorded on the cell phone I got. Technically... [[Rise and shine in the left, applause from several members of the ANO benches.]] You need to protect yourself because then there are different untruths that make you look like someone who does things that are wrong. And I really appreciate it, and I say this here repeatedly, working with all my colleagues, with all the doctors, with all the Members and members of the Health Committee, however, I could not say in my life that I will come to the event that takes place on the day when we have meetings with the representatives of the Governors, with doctors and representatives of the Association, and we are organizing, or we are debating emergency services and urgent income, the event is scheduled several weeks in advance, and on the day when I have meetings with the head of the Scientific Council of the Czech Medical Association, Dr. Mrozek, when we are discussing doctor's education. We all know how regular invitations to similar events are. Again, I was surprised by the way it was formulated that I didn't go anywhere, but the official invitation to the Ministry didn't arrive. I did not confirm my participation in writing, on the contrary. There was a health committee at the Ministry of Health on Wednesday before this event, where there was no word that the next day would be similar to the event. None of the members of the Health Committee took action there, nobody talked about it. It's just true, there's a record from the health committee again. I'll be glad if we avoid such misunderstandings, I'll be glad if they don't. I am glad that the Health Committee is planning on 28 February, on the Wednesday when the Health Committee was at the Ministry of Health, this was said on Wednesday, a round table on how to deal with drug deficiencies in the future. This is where I got the official invitation. The date was set so that representatives of the Ministry could really go, not just me, but so that relevant representatives of all those involved could go. I'm sure this event will be open, as all the events will be, and I'm sure all Members will be invited to it. Three days before the event, which took place on Thursday, and I'm sorry, but I'm very sorry, an invitation arrived for this event, this is the invitation. [[He's pointing.]] This arrived where are listed: The participation confirmed. But I haven't confirmed attendance anywhere. If I have confirmed my attendance in writing, please show me. And if I wanted to be equally evil, I would say: Invitation - ANO 2011 parliamentary club invites you to the round table under the auspices of the Chairman of the ANO 2011 JUDr movement. Alena Schillerová, ., on the subject. I don't think - although perhaps the information has not been given to me yet, through you - that you are the president of the club as well as the new chair of the movement. It is possible that you will become the eighth, but this is how the invitation sounds - it invites me under the auspices of the Chairman of the YES 2011 movement. I could place an extraordinary point at this meeting: Congratulations to the new Chairman of the ANO 2011 movement for election. I'm not putting that in. [[Applause in the right side of the hall.]] But to make a point. However, as I see this as a mistake that has appeared here, and we are people, making mistakes, making it very clear to me that there should have been a Chairman of the ANO club, it is very correct, so please also accept that there was another mistake - participation confirmed, because I did not really confirm the participation. I can't even confirm participation this quickly and I really am no official invitation, a written invitation, the way it's normally done - you're doing it when you were in the coalition, we're doing it when we're in the coalition, all the Members are doing it - so they didn't get it. [[15.10 hours]] If it upsets anyone, I'm very sorry about that. I'm always trying to work together, I'm trying to be as correct as possible, and I have to say, personally, I'm very sorry. I totally take any criticism, totally take the work of the opposition, I was also tough as the club president if I was in opposition, but I consider this to be unfair. I'm sorry, and I'm sorry, I take it personally. All the more I regret that there are my colleagues doctors, whom I respect humanly and professionally very much. I really don't do this, and I don't think it's polite. I don't want to dissect it anymore, I'm just personally very sorry and I didn't expect it, I'm disappointed. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I suggested an extraordinary point, but I suppose that's not the way to suggest extraordinary points, and it was a bit of an exaggeration. We're really doing our best to import drugs. I look forward to a round table. I look forward to another health committee where we will discuss everything. We're changing legislation, we've changed part of it, we're changing part of it. We import hundreds of thousands of packages of Nurofen, and so, even if it was said here, how can you not buy cones, really not, in Poland at a petrol station - I went so far as to call the Minister of Health, if I have not, say, lost my mind and really can - I really can not, so the situation with drugs is serious in all the countries of the European Union. Let's not downplay the situation. The situation is very serious, it's complicated in the United States, it's complicated in Canada, Australia. We're really doing our best, there's no problem at all with the price ceiling, just because we've had approved legislation on your part that allows us to bring the drugs at a price that we'll determine, which the government will approve, and which allows us to buy the drugs, and we're doing it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-000-000.u11	I am now registering a number of priority rights, so that the President will be in order - President Fiala is now in office, followed by Vice-President Havlíček and then President Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-000-000.u12	Dear colleagues, allow me to react very briefly to a very suggestive, verbally suggestive speech by Minister Válek. Minister, at least on behalf of the SPD, I certainly wish you could get all the drugs so that no drugs are missing. I'm glad you told us so here, and I just hope that everything you said will be confirmed in the future, because, of course, people are telling us that they can't get anything or anything. So I really wish from my heart that everyone who goes to the hospital or the pharmacy and needs some treatment to get the drugs. But if they tell us that the drugs aren't, of course, we'll turn to you, and if you can't secure them, we'll force you to resign, and we'll want someone to just secure them. Allow me, Madam President, to propose a new point, and the point would be that the people are sinking into poverty because of the government of Petr Fiala. Nearly a third of Čech currently live with growing debts or only a minimum reserve that will not cover their average cost of living. Each tenth Czech household then lives completely without reserves, while in the recent past many of them managed to save some of the money they earned. This results from the current results of Czech financial health index Česká spořitelna, Sociological Institute of the Academy of Sciences and the portal Europe in data. Because we've become accustomed to quoting the source for the reason that you can't call us disinformers, deisolates and people who invent and haunt people. So we're not really like that, and here again, I quote the source, the research, so you know that it's just the way it is. And the fact that you call someone a disinformer is already very cheap. According to this index, 57 percent of households are experiencing only difficulties with their budget. The most disturbing thing about the polling output is that two thirds of households today who are unable to create any financial reserve declare that until recently they were able to do so, until recently, they had some money at home that they could have used if needed. They don't have them nowadays because they're higher prices, huge increases, and, of course, those families have a lot more spending than they should have. It is evident that the main causes of this social crisis are the decline in real income and a significant increase in the prices of all basic cost of living and needs. It is the trivial business card and responsibility of the government of Petr Fiala, which partly caused this price increase, but mainly does not want - or cannot - to fight it effectively. Both variants are, of course, wrong. The proposals for solutions put forward by the SPD to not only criticize, but to say what we can do about it are known and clear in the long term. For example, value added tax should be reduced immediately to the lowest possible level, especially for energy, basic food and medicines. At the same time, the government must reduce the unreasonablely high price ceilings for electricity and gas, especially for electricity, which we are one of the largest producers in Europe and one of the largest exporters - so far. We believe that for Czech companies and Czech citizens electricity should be sold at a production price plus a reasonable profit, that it should not be sold at a price that is traded on the Lipa commodity exchange at which it is sold, and only surpluses that are not sold to people and companies in the Czech Republic should be sold abroad at trade prices, because, as we could see, the single energy market is just fiction. It's a thing that just doesn't work, and only a fool would stay in it. At the same time, the government must create conditions for increasing net household income, in particular by reducing direct taxes, or by increasing tax discounts and significantly increasing the basic component of pensions, such as the minimum wage level. These are simply things that would help people, and I am convinced that there is a need to talk about it here, that there is a need to discuss it. And that is why I propose this point at today's meeting, Madam President, and I ask that it be included. We don't actually have any fixed points yet - but for the designs that fell before me, that means, I think it's about third in the order, isn't it?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-000-000.u13	Well, so many more have fallen, so it also depends which of them will actually be included in the program. So I suggest you may suggest some solid inclusion, like the fifth point, if you were to presume that all of your President's points will be included, so it's even the sixth.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-000-000.u14	So that's the sixth point, I suggest that this be listed as the sixth point today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-000-000.u15	Thank you. Therefore, Vice-President Havlíček is now registered and is followed by President Schillerová, we are still in priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-000-000.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have two points today and the first is called the Censorship of the media. I would like to outline the substance of this point because we consider it necessary for us to discuss it. As we all know, this government is installing one government agent after another. It relieves itself of responsibility or has no competence, I cannot answer accurately, but of course it is up to this government to decide. In any case, I am of the opinion that they must then guarantee the work of their government agents. One of them is the government's media agent and misinformation. This government agent, who has been operating for almost a year under the Office of the Government, became visible especially at the end of last year. To understand each other, we understand the need to combat misinformation, our government has solved a similar problem. There's never been as much misinformation in history as there was in the covid age. We never allowed ourselves to do the media and show you: You do and you don't. The government's agent came up with the Action Plan, and this Action Plan aroused enormous emotions, justified emotions. What's he saying? Let's divide the media into the conscious ones and the less conscious ones - let's think about the ones that spread or spread disinformation. Who and how will specify this is a big question mark, because what seems disinformation to us today is a question of whether it will be in two or three years. What's even worse is that the conscious media will receive subsidies. I say that these media are being bribed - 100 million a year is in this so-called action plan. And the unconscious media, the one spreading misinformation, we punish them, and we punish them by changing the law and putting them on trial. And nonprofits that will spread education and raise them to write consciously, we will give them 50 million crowns a year. Completely absurd, insane, a number of journalists oppose it, and I dare say that even the hardened media garrisons have lost their chin. Okay, the government's agent will make a mistake, but it needs the government to stand up for it, so to make it clear that they're either behind the Action Plan or they're not behind it. If she says she's behind him, then logically she'll be subjected to overwhelming criticism and she won't be able to make excuses for a government agent - and maybe here's why she chose him in the first place. Or maybe he's not standing behind him, which would be right, he's gonna throw it off the table, but then we assume that this government agent is gonna end because it's unheard of to really bow down something like this. So we call on the government to make it clear whether or not it is behind this Action Plan, and I believe that there will be government actors here today, ministers who will make this clear. The second point I propose is called Teacher Demotivation. We can talk a hundred times about who had a better concept in education, whether our Minister Plaga or your ministers, whether it was Minister Gazdík or Minister Balaš. I am of the opinion that this government has not transferred anything in the field of education, unlike Minister Plaga, but you can oppose me and you can say what you have put forward. But what cannot be logically explained is what you, as a five-calice, have succeeded with the income and wages of teachers. We were very well aware when our government came in 2017, that wages in this area were heavily underestimated. We have tried to compare them, and no one can deny us the fact that we have substantially increased the income of teachers at all levels. Soon I'll give specific examples here. We have the latest analysis from the past few days, presented by the College Council, which looks at this from the median point of view, from the point of view of average wages, from the point of view of tariff, and when we look at the statistically most fair parameter on the monthly income of teachers, or the so-called median, so please listen well: the teacher of the secondary school or second grade of primary school in 2017 had an income of 31 750, in 2021 when our government ended, it was 49 250 and in 2022 this income fell to 47 250. Kindergarten: teacher 26 450 in 2017, in 2021 39 300 and in 2022 36 850 - decline again. And we're gonna look at college. The most typical profession, assistant professor: 36 900 in 2017, in 2021 45 900 and in 2022 - listen well - 43 400. For all teachers' professions, from the perspective of the median, and from the point of view of the average wage, there was a decrease in their income. Now let's add that we have inflation, and if we rewind it to real wages, we're going to find that they dropped between 20 and 25 percent. And you might say to me, "But we are in an extraordinary time, we must all be humbled - as he said right or wrong?, we are at war today, Prime Minister Fiala and some ministers. In any case, we are in an energy crisis, I understand that, but I do not know how we will explain to teachers that, at the same time as their wages fall in this way when they are demotivated, five-wheeled women push through the fact that the wages of Members, Ministers and constitutional officials are rising by 13 per cent on average. [[Minister Jurečka: 12.]] 12%, I'm sorry. I think it would be fair for this to be explained, to say why teachers' wages were not handled differently. Or if we think teachers don't deserve the income they had, let's just say it hard and clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-000-000.u17	But it didn't sound like a solid assignment. I take it you don't want to get fixed?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-000-000.u18	I'm sorry. I was so passionate, I forgot to say...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-000-000.u19	Not at either of those points, I'll say.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-000-000.u20	Yes. So at that point in the first point, the media censor, and the second point, the Teacher Demotivation, I'd like it to be listed when it was just the sixth point here, just like the seventh point of today's meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-000-000.u21	The seventh and eighth points of today's meeting, well, thank you. I have an announcement that Vice-President Skopeček is voting with card number 23. I shall now ask for the floor of President Schillerová with priority rights, followed by Mr Špičák. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-000-000.u22	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I come under the influence of the performance, strong influence of the speech by Minister Válek with another point which I will first justify and then formulate at the very conclusion. So, Mr. absent minister... [[Secretary Wark is calling from the guest gallery.]] Oh, well, at the gallery, Mr. Secretary of Válek, Minister of Health, what have we just heard? After consulting my colleagues, health experts, under the influence of the round table, I have called on the Minister of Health to tell us what his plan is, what his system solution is, even when I was here in consultation with my colleagues, how the various countries of the European Union are doing this, and what did we hear instead? Instead, we heard the Minister was recording calls. I don't know, maybe the Home Secretary or the Attorney General should comment on that, if that's okay, if it's okay, if someone's recording calls, that they need to be cautious. Then we heard the tyranny of my colleagues... Well, they organized it too in three or four days, so it was a lot of fun that they just blew up and put in a different position for me than the one I currently hold. Very funny, very funny! But the point is, we didn't hear that. We didn't hear what Minister Válek, Minister of Health would do. He's here to explain how he hasn't confirmed his involvement, how there must actually be a confirmed participation and why and so on. Why did we even have to call the round table? [[The Member speaks very strongly.]] Why do we even have to beg and beg him to come and do his duty to come and say what he will do? [[Let's hear it for members of the YES.]] To come and tell the people we're talking about, when are the drugs gonna be? And the chip thing that's gonna bring in so many drugs... What's the system solution? He said: by the end of February resolved, by the end of March, now even said by the end of June. Yeah, well, there's not gonna be any more respiratory diseases in June or anything like that because it's gonna be hot, so nothing, we didn't hear that. [[15.30 hours]] And kind Minister, that you are avoiding communication - not only with the opposition, with the professional public - has been confirmed on that round table by many of them. But the TV Nova confirmed it when you performed, I guess, on Saturday at the main time in the Television News, so the host said that you were invited several times on this subject and that you always refused. So you're afraid, you have nothing to say, that's the point. So I will, dear Minister, propose - and all present - another point and place it as item number 2 of today's meeting day, and this is a call for the resignation of Minister Válek. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-000-000.u23	Now, there is a priority right with which Minister Válek is reporting. Mr Špičák withdraws his request to speak on the agenda, so Mrs Pokorná Jermanová follows. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-000-000.u24	Thank you. Madam President, dear and honourable Members, I could repeat the information that I have provided, but I believe that, on the one hand, they are from the tapestry of who cares, they can read and read. In such a serious situation as the lack of medicines and such as the problem with drugs - and it is and is global - it is Europe-wide - and if we do not resolve it throughout Europe, we are unable to solve it in individual countries. The problem is Europe-wide, and I deal with it Europe-wide. So I don't dare, in a situation as serious as this, to go on sneaking around and embellishing it, just briefly sum up what we've done, what we've done, what we're going to do, and what we're going to do. We have delivered several hundred thousand packs of different types of antibiotics, especially penicillin series, and yes, not always antibiotics that are used to prescribe by doctors is available, but at least one antibiotic from this series is always available. In addition, we brought half a million packages of Nurofen, which is in normal years the Czech Republic's six-month consumption, not in covido years, but in the ancestors'. We'll get another Nurofen. Any drug in any line that is missing, we are looking for it and we can do it because we have adopted - and that is the third thing - a law that allows me, in agreement with the distributor and the manufacturer, to deliver the drug, to determine the price by government decision - and I regularly do - and then to release the drug into the distribution network. I can buy it in any country if the medicine, however, meets the safety of citizens of the Czech Republic. And a prospective matter that will help deal with the situation, I hope, already in the autumn, but in any case in the following years, because the outages of drugs are repeated - you know, everyone, you are members of the health committee, that every year we deal with drug outages, longer or shorter, a typical example is Pendepon, when the outages of Pendepon are accompanied by the Czech health services for the last fifteen years, and I could continue the individual medications, and yes, experts from individual parties who are in charge will certainly confirm this - so we are preparing a law that unfortunately my predecessors have not prepared, but I do not resent them because they have solved other problems. We've been preparing this law since May last year, and now it's in the commentary process. I hope that he will go to the Chamber of Deputies in the first half of this year and that the House will be helpful and swift to him, and we are already negotiating with some of you - we are talking to them if we therefore have their support. The law will allow me, firstly, to give me the obligation of distributors to have a supply of medicines, secondly, to buy medicines primarily through insurance companies, targeted to finance this supply of insurance companies, thirdly, it will allow me to have an accurate overview of the eRecipe - it has been said here, but unfortunately it is not possible yet for legislative reasons - what is the current consumption of any drug, how the drug operates in the network. It will therefore help me to take some systemic measures that will ensure the Czech Republic against the outages of any basic drug in any category. I just couldn't look myself in the eye as a doctor if a patient were threatened with life because the medicine that is necessary for his life is not. It just is, it doesn't matter who you think it is, but that's how it is. That's why I may be less on TV, and all the more time I spend dealing with manufacturers, distributors, and those who can deliver the drugs to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-000-000.u25	Thank you. Have a good afternoon, colleagues, colleagues. Now, Mrs Pokorná Jermanová is ready and signed in, Mr Síla will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-000-000.u26	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear members of the government, dear colleagues, I would like to ask for the inclusion of a point relating to the sale of state property, namely the castle Štiřín. I noticed this intention on the website of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and we also asked about it at the meeting of the Foreign Committee of representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs during the discussion of the budget. Unfortunately, we haven't learned any more specific information. At present, as I have already mentioned, the intention of the sale had to be published by the Ministry in order to fulfil its obligations, unfortunately, it did so in a very subtle and very austere form. However, I believe that the sale of such state property is - or would be - worth much more attention, especially when information appears in public space about the fact that the buyer is already known in advance. It is a property whose value is huge, and the public should learn the maximum of information about the sale. It should therefore be known whether the sale is really necessary and also what form it will take. The government is patronizing itself with transparency in its statements, but in this case, even in all my efforts, I look for it in vain. Štiřín Castle is, as we know, owned by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Several corruption events from the past have been associated with its sale and with overvalued invoices. He's always been a lucrative commodity. Historically, even in the past, representatives of the parties who are represented in the current government five-calice have tried to sell, so we are experiencing certain déjà vu. The Štiřín Castle is a very attractive object due to its position and condition. It is close to Prague, long-term investment in the castle itself, as well as in adjacent buildings and parks. The park is also remarkable from a dendrological point of view. There's no way to say he was neglected. The State used it for multilateral meetings, whether on the V4 platform, the Central European countries, the European Union and so on. In addition, it is a convenient place for congresses, meetings or training. It is also suitable for international participation by almost ideal transport from Prague's Václav Havel Airport. The journey takes about half an hour at the top. In addition, it is also commercially used, it is attractive with regard to the adjacent golf course. Of course, the proponents of the sale argue with a played song about energy performance and small occupancy. However, this is a question of property management and management. I would be interested in real economic calculations without general phrases. I dare say that it will undoubtedly be an interesting investment for the new owner. However, I am not sure whether its sale will be lucrative for the state. I have reasonable concerns that the transaction under consideration will not be a win-win for the state, but rather for the players who will participate in the sale on its behalf. The public has the right to know how, why and to whom the government intends to sell this object. It would certainly be good to know what other state property the government wants to monetize and what everything will disappear from the state property under the cape of needlessness. I think that, at the time the sale takes place in an irreversible phase, it is necessary to argue and discuss this transaction on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. As I have already said, for this very reason it should be transparent and not hope that no one will notice. I believe you will proceed with this knowledge. [[15.40 hours]] I therefore ask for the inclusion of a point entitled Information about the Government's intention to sell the castle Štiřín and the concept of the sale of the necessary state property. Please include as the first item in today's negotiations, or as the first item in today's negotiations after the fixed points. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-000-000.u27	Thank you, Madame. Mr Síla will now come forward and prepare Mrs Pastuchová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-000-000.u28	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, let me also mention the current problem which is very difficult for our population, and this is the lack of medicines, the most common, cheapest medicines on the market. The point I would like to mention - I would rather read it now: the Fialův Government and the Minister of Health Válek are responsible for the lack of medicine on our market - if you were so kind, Madam President. The critical situation associated with drug shortages continues to escalate, and unfortunately, the government is still failing to address this situation effectively. I myself have repeatedly performed not only here on the microphone, but also at various press conferences and so on about this problem and I would just like to stress that it is a lack of basic antibiotics, medicines for common infections of the upper and lower respiratory tract, diabetes, asthma, epilepsy, various drops in the nose, ears and so on. The Czech Republic has been exported, according to the director of the SÚKL 130 000 packages of these drugs worth CZK 66 million recently and has itself stated that it cannot be excluded that these medicines are substantially more, at least twice as many. Drug distributors prefer large hospitals and their own pharmacies, plus two of the largest drug distributors are monopoly suppliers of certain medicines, which according to experts, pharmacists contradict Czech laws. The Czech Pharmacy Chamber has repeatedly stated - without response, of course - that a change to the Act on Medicines has not yet been proposed, which would allow for more effective detection and punishment of illicit drug exports. The SPD movement agrees with this criticism and is currently working on this law. The lack of use of cheap generics compared to original medicines is certainly worth considering. The unsolved problem remains so-called drug reexports, or advertising issues and marketing incentives to price. I would like to point out these two points, because the Minister here has told us all possible cases of why drugs are not available, but he has forgotten these two reasons, and that is why the generics that are not subject to licensing agreements are significantly cheaper, they are produced by virtually everyone and pharmaceutical companies obviously have no interest in producing these medicines here, which are very cheap, and that is why it is also one of the reasons for the lack of these medicines. Reexports of drugs abroad are actually legal under the EU directive, when drugs are taken as any common commodity, so they are subject to all laws on free movement across borders. Our citizens are forced to buy drugs in Poland, Germany and Slovakia. I would also disagree with the Minister, who mentioned that this problem is in all the surrounding states and not just the surrounding states, and I can prove that my son works as a doctor in Germany and on purpose I made a phone call to him, saying that he would normally get the drugs in pharmacies. I'm from Ostrava, my fellow neighbors go shopping for drugs normally to Poland, just outside the border. I have another family in Bratislava, Slovakia, and I also made a phone call about medicine. Everyone told me that drugs are usually available. So the Minister's argument here that drugs are nowhere is not entirely based on the truth. Our citizens buy these medicines in Poland and Germany for crowns, of course they are medicines without a prescription. The SPD has criticized this situation for several months, we have even presented its proposals for solutions, unfortunately without any response. We have accepted about half a million Ukrainian refugees to our country, while the government has done nothing to increase the supply of medicines to the Czech Republic and, on the contrary, part of the drugs ordered to our pharmacies has been exported to Ukraine. The SPD is a political movement that is solidarity with Ukrainian people suffering from the current state of war, but I will not forget that the Ministry of Health's website already reported that the Czech Republic exported ten trucks of medicines to Ukraine in September 2022. It should also be recalled that the medicines are ordered by producers about 6 to 18 months before delivery. This is because manufacturers produce a certain sort of medicine always for one state, with the Czech or the appropriate language, with descriptions, possibly with leaflets in the language. Deputy Dvořáček said that the so-called donated drugs, which were exported to Ukraine in March 2022, were two trucks, they had Czech descriptions, ergo these drugs were intended for our market. Petr Fiala's government only responds verbally, but the deed has escaped. The lack of medicine continues to seriously threaten the health of citizens in the Czech Republic. The main blame for the current lack of drugs on the Czech market is completely incompetent government, which was unable to help in half a year, or after exporting medicines to Ukraine, to find other medicines that would replace them, not only for our citizens, but not even to count on about 200,000 children coming from Ukraine. The SPD believes that this is a concrete and flagrant proof of the incompetence of Petr Fiala's government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-000-000.u29	Thank you. Minister Válek came forward with priority rights. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-000-000.u30	Madam President, dear Members, honourable Members. I just... I won't comment, of course, it doesn't make sense, and it's not even right, and I'm sure we can discuss it with the doctor, by your means, with the Member. The situation is claustrophobic. Of course, in some countries, it may be different from the official data I have from the SÚKL of those countries and from the health ministers. The lack of drugs in those categories we are talking about is truly pan-European, indeed in all countries, and of course it can happen that if the lot, as I explained - but by your means, the Member also obviously knows this very well, because he knows that the production is 6 to 18 months in advance - it may be that the lot was not threatened by the distribution channels at the time it was due to arrive in a particular European country. The batch was produced, say, at the end of 2021, or in the middle of 2021, for 2022, and therefore the drug is in some particular country, but we're talking about one of the categories of drugs in the whole group. [[15.50 hours]] But as far as Ukraine is concerned, it really isn't true here that any of those drugs, any of those drugs we're missing today, were exported to Ukraine. That's just not true. We can make an overview of what was exported, it was not at the expense of Czech citizens and of Czech pharmacies. And I'm going to try to explain the logical reason very briefly. The exports of these drugs took place at a time when the conflict in Ukraine began, i.e. sometime in May, June, July, August, in months when there is no flu epidemic, when there are no anginas, when those citizens in Ukraine would have flu medications, for anginas, for colds were for nothing, because the season of viral diseases occurs in autumn months, very much the same in Ukraine as in our country. There were exported medicines and medical devices that Ukraine really needed at the time. These were materials for wounded civilians, wounded soldiers, which served precisely for first aid and for the treatment of patients who were variously injured during the barbaric Russian attack. You of you who specialize in surgery, you who deal with this issue, you know what categories of drugs they are, they are many of you. No doubt it's not Nurofen, no doubt it's not baby antibiotic syrups, no doubt it's not penicillin antibiotics. Well, that's just an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-000-000.u31	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Pastuchová is now registered. [[The floor shall be declared with the priority right of Mr Okamura.]] I'm sorry. Please, Prime Minister Okamura, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-000-000.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, Dr. Síla, our Member, has no right of priority, so he cannot now respond to the Minister, but the Minister is not telling the truth, basically he is lying because the following information directly comes from the Ministry of Health: already 14. 3. 2022 were imported to a central distribution site in Poland by two trucks of medicines, from which they mainly travelled to the west of Ukraine. In the first two trucks there were about 130 pallets of medicinal products. Drugs supposedly donated to pharmaceutical companies. It was mainly analgesics, antibiotics, painkillers, medicines used for acute medicine and resuscitation. 7. 4. 2022 Deputy Minister of Health Jakub Dvořáček said that one to two trucks of medicines are sent to Ukraine a week. He mentioned that the medications have leaflets in Czech. As part of the last batch of medicines in Ukraine, they were medicines suitable for pain control and fever effective in treating various infections, including upper and lower respiratory infections, skin infections and so on, as the Deputy Minister of Health said. 6. 9. 2022 The Ministry of Health has published information that ten drug trucks have already been sent to Ukraine.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-000-000.u33	Thank you. Mrs Pastuchová will now appear, Mr Nacher will be prepared. Before I give the floor to the honourable Member, I will read the apologies: Mrs Němečková Crkvenjaš Zdenka apologizes for the whole day for family reasons and Mr Žáček Pavel for the whole day for personal reasons. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-000-000.u34	Thank you, Madam President. Well, for the fourth time, I'm gonna be like Patrik Nacher, who's been putting one point through you all the time. Once again, I propose a point on the current situation at the employment offices. I'm glad the Minister is sitting here. We had a Social Policy Committee last week where we discussed a lot about what was going on at the employment offices. This Committee on Social Policy was also attended by Mr. Ombudsman Křeček, who gave us very disturbing information there. If I read from 12. 1. article or title in the media Tears, helpless, queues in winter, people are waiting for support of the moon, officials do not follow. We all know that benefits are paid more, officials are getting less and less. Anyone who comes will leave after a trial period, because the work there is increasing more and more. We will now also talk about the Lex Ukraine V, which results in further work for officials of the Office of Labour. The Minister has told us that he is not satisfied with how the Labour Office works. So I think - many citizens don't look at the morning committee, even if they have the opportunity, now we have four hours, or maybe somebody will look at this day - I think that this issue of people who are dealing with their life situation in whether they will be able to pay their rent, or they will be able to go to buy food, medicines, interest in this situation and its solutions more than the laws that this government now presents as their priority. So once again, for the fourth time, I'm assigning this item, the current situation at the Labor Office, to this meeting. I would give the term - because I think it's a really serious thing and people want to know what's going on or what's going to happen, and if they wait in winter, now we're going to have the minus 13 degrees, so it's not going to be very pleasant - so I'm going to put it in, if it's going to be listed, as the second point of today's meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-000-000.u35	Thank you, too, Madame. Mr Nacher is now signed in, Mrs Adámková will be prepared. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-000-000.u36	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Well, I'm here for the fourth time, too, with the same point, and that's government information on combating misinformation. For the fourth time, I'm asking you to do this, and I'm asking you to put this point here, because only bits come into the media. There's some sort of Action Plan, a 20-page material that can't be reported to be released, so the bits are about to start disinformation. So the government that fights misinformation is actually going to co-create them. But it is your fault, because on this point, it is particularly true that there should be complete transparency. That means what you're preparing, how much money it's going to cost, what media you're going to support, what criteria are going to be there, who people are going to stand behind it, which nonprofit organizations, what sections you want to change, because there's also talk about changing the law, that's in your own interest to talk about it here. I'm not gonna advise you, but maybe if someone comes in, the Minister of the Interior, or I don't know, the Minister of Culture, and he says he's gonna make a round table for this or some seminar, maybe this would help or whatever. But you don't talk about it at all, you don't inform the opposition, you don't inform anyone. So your fight against misinformation is kind of shadowy. And the paradox of that is - and I will read here - that it was the minister of your government, Ivan Bartoš, who distributed and shared false contributions on Twitter and on Facebook that talked about the gambling. Let me read you something. One of the fake profiles writes: "If Ivan Bartoš had any sense, he would check it out. If he didn't share it, it doesn't have that range. Sharing some nameless fools - that's a quote - wouldn't cause such a fuss. Now, look, the reaction of Minister Bartoš, who defends his contribution, is that the situation cannot be downplayed. He referred to Troll contributions as illustration examples. So here's a beautiful example. You fight disinformation, and then when you share some misinformation, you retweet, and then someone shows you that it's a fake profile, a fake post, it's an illustration example. Well, as a better situation here, it can't be on my favorite double standard, okay? So the fight against misinformation is basically a fight against uncomfortable information, and if you're spreading it, it's an illustration. And that's not how it's supposed to be. There's a lot of stories and cases like this, so it's in your interest to talk about it. Therefore, I propose that we place it either as the first point on Wednesday or as the first point on Friday, or on Friday at a fixed time at 1 p.m., when the end in the Chamber of Deputies is near, so that we can devote an hour to this. We would devote an hour in the Chamber of Deputies to combating misinformation. I think it's in everyone's interest, even the young generation who's here to say goodbye. [[There's a group of students waving from the visitors' gallery.]] I wish you well today and thank you for your support on this point. So I suggested, Madam Vice-President, three alternate times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-000-000.u37	Yes, thank you, I've noticed your suggestions. Mrs Věra Adámková will now appear and Mr Farhan will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-000-000.u38	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Government - leftovers, ladies and gentlemen, allow me also to turn your attention repeatedly to the health of the people of this Republic. We have already heard about the lack of medicines, the point is designed to be included, or we will not be repeated, of course, but I would like to say that serious diseases have nonpharmacological treatments, and this is mainly based on dietary measures. I have already mentioned this, it has not been included, so allow me to turn your attention to the price of food even in light of certain shortcomings of medicines. There are medicines that are absolutely essential to some diseases, but unfortunately there are also diseases that do not have pharmacological treatment and we must follow other measures, called regimens. We've got celiacs here. You know very well that people who are allergic to gluten are quite a lot, small children, adults and so on, and their really only treatment is that they just won't eat the gluten. I must say that at the same time the market already offers some food, but we also have to say that they are expensive. While you buy ordinary bread, let's say about 40 crowns - I don't know where you're shopping, but if we average it, we'll get there. They don't get more or less under 90, 100 crowns. Of course insurance companies have some contributions from funds prevention there, they are different, from 6 to 10,000, but it really is not enough. And then we have a second group of people, another metabolic defect, and they're diabetics. With a very sober estimate of 8 percent of the diabetic population, and we know that there is such a glacier that there are significantly more of them, with a sugar absorption disorder, so we get back to eating. We can delay the onset of pharmacological treatment with a properly chosen diet, which is very important. Firstly, we save, and secondly, of course, the person does not have side effects, because it is necessary to realize that there is no drug that does not have side effects. Pharmacy's still looking for him, we're waiting for him, but of course he's not, that's the reality. Of course, all the more we need to ask how our patients can follow our recommendations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-000-000.u39	Thank you, gentlemen, for stopping your call.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-000-000.u40	You have, gentlemen, a louder or rather a deeper voice and he is better heard. I'm not able to scream you out. So for those diabetics, we need to realize that we want a rational, full-fledged diet with them, no hunger strikes are currently, of course, no longer recommended, and that also costs something. So please, nicely, let me give you an example from my practice. Diabetic, 58 years old, average earning man of course, and now comes what I want from him, that means eating a varied diet, enough protein, of course, meat, vegetables, there's a little bit of fruit going on, and imagine one thing. He's coming, his sugar is higher than I would like - it's an example from last week's Friday - so we're renegotiating the recommended measures, and I'm saying to him, "Why aren't you doing this?" And then after a long time, I don't like him very much, and I have to say that he felt dehonested, that man, he says to me, well, you know, we have three kids in school, I just can't do it. And that made me extremely sad. So please nicely, it's not exactly up to the Ministry of Health just, we have the Ministry of Industry, Trade, Agriculture and so on. Please nicely, we're all sick sometimes, everyone can have some serious problems that can be solved in a nonpharmacological way. Let's place a point, and because I don't think it's politically affected at all, I'd like to ask that as the first point after the fixed points - how they will be, I don't know - to talk about it, and that's because I think communication is the basis of success, and as you have seen at our more or less apolitical round table about the lack of medicine, there has been a lack of clarity in communication, so let's say not exactly a commendable situation. And I'd just like a completely footnote to the Minister here, because the director of the State Institute for Drug Control also didn't attend, who also promised me that she would come, and then texted me, I also have it on my cell phone that the Ministry assessed this event as an event that he wouldn't support. [[A Member is turning to Minister War, sitting in a government bench.]] So please, nicely, in that case, I really don't know where the truth is, I'm not going to escalate these things here anymore. We will therefore discuss this with the Minister in communication matters, which is why I am telling him with the full responsibility of what I am saying, and we will continue to do so. [[The Member is turning again to Minister War.]] So I would like to place a point in my view of non-conflict, non-political: Food price and its impact on health care for citizens of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-000-000.u41	Thank you. Mr Farhan will now appear, Mrs Šafránková will be prepared. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-000-000.u42	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. I would like to load a new point here, which also concerns the lack of medicine. In part, I will shorten what I have prepared, because there has been a lot of talk here, but in the second half, as part of the justification for this point, I will speak to what the Minister here has told us. The Ministry, as far as it is concerned, and the Minister, has clearly overslept in this situation. This is about incompetence, incompetence and failure to deal with this whole drug situation. The situation that arose was not sufficiently addressed by the Ministry. Even in recent weeks, we have learned, and today, what the Minister has provided. Then I'll ask him a few questions to tell us when he secured it and when it would come. If the Minister says that he is able to solve a shortage of certain types of drugs in a short time and that he has provided them, I ask, why did he not react earlier? Because the lack of small-spectrum antibiotics also causes doctors to actually prescribe broad-spectrum antibiotics, that it actually increases resistance and, of course, it will make their effectiveness worse for the future. Of course, this also brings problems to those patients who, if they don't get the medicine in the pharmacy, have to go back to the doctor and simply go through a lap like this. And now, even in my reasoning for this point, let me mention some of the things I consider to be... I will now use the Minister's words, no one here wants to deliberately lie, I believe that the Minister is not knowingly lying, but certainly what he said here is not quite accurate from my point of view. Let me quote a few things here. What about the Minister said: "The Ministry of Health negotiated on Tuesday the delivery of 300,000 packages of Nurofen for children to the Czech Republic. By Christmas, the first part should arrive, roughly a third." Today we learned, quote, here in the first performance that it was 400,000 packages of Nurofen, in the second speech the minister said: "We brought half a million, secured and imported half a million of these packages. " And I'm asking here, Minister - because I understand that you are the person who, now I say this, records phone calls, so I'm sure there are some minutes of these meetings - so my question to you when we open the point - or I believe we will open it: When did you secure these deliveries of Nurofen and when were they delivered? That's the answer none of you heard. And as I was quoting here, as the Minister said, the article came out on December 14th, that he had spoken and made sure - I did not notice anywhere in public sources that these drugs were imported. I noticed from public sources that on the website of the State Institute for Drug Control, the company, the manufacturer of Nurofen, says 1. 11: We're reporting a blackout, deliveries will be restored 16. 12. [[16.10 hours]] I just hope and assume, Minister, that you are not talking about the 14th that you have secured what this company promises on November 11th. [[31 December]] Because if you work like this, then you know how important it is for health care to be done quickly, every life matters. And you're giving this information 54 days after it's publicly available, 54 days after that! If, of course, you negotiated that half a million packages in excess of that, then it's new information and it's worth telling journalists to tell the government and to inform the public about it. But if it's old information, I don't know why you're coming 54 days after telling us something that everyone already knows, first of all. Secondly, I wanted to ask you, Minister: you said you imported hundreds of thousands of antibiotics, packing. I ask you when you ordered them and when you imported them, because it is impossible to trace these hundreds of thousands of packages that have arrived in the Czech Republic. You mentioned azithromycin here. I know he was brought here. It is at the price of some 185 crowns, so the person - actually the normal remuneration is 54, the government decided it would be 184. When an ordinary citizen comes for the original drug, he pays CZK 115 if he gets the one the government ordered, it's paid for, so there's the difference. But that's legitimate, it's legal, so there's probably nothing wrong with it, except a citizen pays, some don't pay. I would also like to respond to one more thing that was said on TV on Sunday, when President Markéta Adamová Pekarová said that these are drug failures, a Europe-wide problem. Of course, this is partly a Europe-wide problem. On the other hand, our citizens went to Poland, Austria, Germany, and I still consider Poland, Germany and Austria as European countries. And what was still said on TV, and I was quite surprised by that, she said that the State Institute for Drug Control - and now the quote will not be completely accurate - for that I apologize - but it was something in the sense that he did not inform the Minister in time about this situation. I wanted to say here that three years ago Adam Vojtěch, Adam Vojtěch, introduced - or was introduced in his ministry - a system that connects the State Institute for Drug Control with the Ministry of Health. I assume you know about that. That means that every minute, every five minutes, every ten minutes, anyone in your office can look into this system. And there's more information about blackouts, drug shortages than I normally do, because I have to look at public resources or the SÚKL website. So I think that wasn't the exact information that was given, because, as I say, anyone in the ministry can talk about it. But it takes someone to run those officials to ask them for that information, because the system is. And Petr Fiala's government, I suppose some of them want to digitize a lot, which we wanted, too, of course, and here's one of the examples of connecting the authorities, but no one's using it. So the question is how far these things are being used. So once again, let me ask you a question, if that point is included, when did you order the drugs, the half a million Nurofen, when were they imported? That's my first question. If you don't, I'll interpel you on Thursday and I'll want you to, so you can be ready by Thursday if you don't know. I don't think they're here, but Thursday or if she gets into my interpellation, we'll know. And then another question. What types of antibiotics, hundreds of thousands of packages, when they were ordered and when do they reach the Czech Republic? This, what I have said here, entitles me to ask you, Madam President, to include a new point in the lack of medicine in the Czech Republic, with which we can include it as the last point in today's negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-000-000.u43	Yes, thank you, I've noticed. Mrs Šafránková will now appear, who has two applications, but in any case you can speak - yes, at one point - and then Mr Vondráček will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-000-000.u44	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues, I would like to propose two items that are important for our most threatened groups of citizens today, and this is an increase in the allowance for care, as well as an increase in parental allowance of CZK 60,000. Firstly, it is point 20, which is House press number 9, and it is specifically the Social Services Act. As I said before, this is an increase in the allowance for care for disabled people, dependent on the care of others, in the first and second levels of addiction, which last increased seven years ago. In December, here in the House of Government Members did not apply to their voting facilities, although they were present in the hall, deliberately blocked the possibility of discussing this law properly at first reading, despite the fact that the five coalition government has increased social services prices for these disabled citizens since January by changing the payment order, leading to a further deterioration in the quality of their lives and to a deterioration in their health status. Do you know, for example, how much is the allowance for care for disabled citizens in the first degree of addiction? It's 880 crowns. And I propose that this item be placed as the second item in today's negotiations, or the first item in tomorrow's Wednesday's agenda. Furthermore, I propose to assign item number 70, which is the House Press 266, the State Social Support Act. This is an increase in parental allowance of CZK 60,000 and also the introduction of automatic valorisation directly into the law. Families with the smallest children are one of the most endangered social groups, which is all the more true now, given the high inflation, which brings the real value of the parental contribution far below its 2020 level, when it was last increased. And the government is unable to submit a bill to increase it itself, just as it has not been able to submit a proposal for an increase in the care allowance for disabled citizens for more than a year. And this item number 70, House Press 266, I propose to include as the third item of today's programme, possibly as the second item of tomorrow's Wednesday's programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-000-000.u45	Thank you, Madame. Mr Vondráček will now appear and prepare Mr Juchelka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-000-000.u46	Hello, Madam Vice-President. Let's start with a few formal issues. I propose a new item on the agenda for this meeting. If I remember correctly how I wrote it on your note, it is a non-discriminatory procedure of the government of the Czech Republic in the fight against misinformation and I would like this point to be included today as the first point if it is not included, tomorrow as the first point, if it is not included, on Friday as the first point. The aim of our efforts should be some debate about what is currently being discussed by a lot of misinformation in social networks, because the government of the Czech Republic, and especially the Prime Minister or the Office of the Government and the Ministry of the Interior, is fogging. They're not telling us the information, and that's why the so-called misinformation comes out. We know there was a department in the Ministry, a department in the Ministry of the Interior called KRIT, a crisis information team. I've talked about him here several times. I've intersected several times both the Prime Minister and the Home Secretary. Every meeting here, I propose to include this point. If there's something I don't like, it's when I repeat myself. I hate to repeat myself, but what remains for me when not once my proposal was heard, and with the exception of the brief response of Minister Rakušan, who came to oral questioning, I did not receive any answers. It feels like an endless show - a new meeting, a new program, Vondráček comes and talks about misinformation. [[16.20 hours]] But I don't even have to repeat myself, because every time, some information comes into that public space that's new. Now, most recently, you can read on one news server about the fact that journalists actually turned to the relevant state institutions, under the Free Access to Information Act, they asked for information about the action plan, about the so-called Action Plan on Combating Disinformation, and it was answered that the information was classified and that it would not be provided under Law 106. So I wonder, in what regime does this action plan, classified under which law, under which specific provision is it a secret fact, arise? And if something like this is really happening, shouldn't Members of Parliament of the Czech Republic know about it? After all, we have committees, we have instruments to discuss classified information, and when we can be interested in what is secret. And that is the fundamental role of the Chamber of Deputies, the control, because in the framework of the action plan, among other things, it is said that 100 million will be distributed to independent media. If you give money to such a medium, then I guess the question is whether it remains independent. It's supposed to give 50 million to non-governmental NGOs, but when they're paid by the government, they probably aren't non-governmental anymore, since they're all professionals who take paychecks, I guess you can't even talk about the nonprofits anymore. We repeatedly wanted an answer to all these questions, and we did not get the answer. Now, for the last time, Mr. Government Commissioner for Combating Disinformation Klíma interviewed on Seznam.cz where he said a few really again pearls that I don't know if there's any point in quoting here. I just want to demonstrate by them that this thing is constantly developing, and if we are going to deal with this in the Chamber of Deputies, we are going to have a big problem within the Czech society. They asked Mr Klíma: "Media is not just a printed newspaper or news server today, we have various blogs, videos, social media posts. Who will decide where the line between opinion, interpretation and disinformation is?" And Mr. Klíma says, "Nobody's gonna make that decision at all, nobody's gonna do that." "Who decides if this is a disinformation site?" "Why would he decide?" Question mark. And similar answers. So what's the use of the law? So that, in the event of a threat to national security, someone can assess what is in the information space for misinformation and at that time react, and so on, and so forth. It is frankly said here that the new reality of the crime is really to be created - the spread of disinformation, and yet the fundamental question of what misinformation is, what it really is, and what the opinion is, is what we are all interested in here, and so far no one has been able to answer that, and no one has told us. I have prepared a very simple resolution, which I have also read here, which should be the conclusion of this debate here, and this resolution reads: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to present to it and to all its members all the materials on the implemented and planned measures in the area of combating misinformation and thus allow discussion in plenary of the Chamber of Deputies." I ask everyone here: Do you see anything wrong in this, that the government will give us some information that they will place a point here and that we will talk about it, and we will talk about it once, we will sacrifice here for three hours, or maybe in the morning, we will discuss the whole thing and we will walk away from it, and the government will explain to us that everything is okay, how does it at least face up to now - or is something really wrong there? How should we know that when these things are classified, and we find only tiny fractions in individual KRIT materials, which say, for example, in connection with illegal migration, that it is not an interesting topic for mainstream media, however, it cannot be excluded that they will be caught by media owned or under the influence of the ANO movement or the disinformation scene - this was indeed a quote from the material - or where members of KRIT are offended by their failure to convince the citizens of the Czech Republic that we are at war. That's also an exact quote. I didn't make that up. And, of course, it inspires question marks in us. As a society, we are sensitive to censorship, we have experienced it, we remember it very well, and I think it is appropriate for the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, to come before us here and tell us how it is, if it is true from an interview with the head of the krit, who says: "Yes, we are a team that is already preparing communication strategies, and besides, there are already specific departments in every ministry." I quote that from the interview with the head of the krit. I then intersected the Minister of Interior and the Minister of Interior told me that I intersect badly, because he is only in charge of the KRIT, the whole concept and it all comes from the Office of the Government, and it's all for Mr Klíma, the chief censor for the fight against misinformation, Mr Klíma. For this reason, I suggest that you finally understand how extremely important it is to put this item on the agenda of the House of Deputies. At the very least, I would ask that he be included in the agenda for this meeting, because, of course, if you do not do so, it also shows something. I'm gonna say it's also a signal. We don't want any more signals, we'd like you to start answering our questions, and if you did, because, as George Orwell once said, the hardest part of all is to focus on the things you see every day. And I would really hate for this gradual tightening, this emergence of government propaganda, to bring about a restriction on freedom of speech in the Czech Republic to an end that no one in this Chamber of Deputies wants. But unfortunately, the slow creation of the bureaucratic machine, which concerns the restriction of speech and propaganda, government propaganda, is simply going to happen. And I'm asking you, colleagues from the coalition, then the government changes, someone else comes along, so what? So it's going to add one more zero and instead of 100 million, it's going to give me 1 billion-- or I'm going to multiply it by two-- there's going to be another government, but those officials are going to be sitting there, they're going to have it set up, they're just gonna know how to work with public opinion. What, do we want something like this to happen? When you start something like this, it's very, very difficult to cancel. So now it's time to discuss it, now it's time, Prime Minister, to turn it off, and there's no other way to turn it off. And I'm giving you a serious offer here, constructive - let's talk about it in the Chamber of Deputies first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-000-000.u47	Thank you. Mr Juchelka will now appear, Mrs Dražilová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-000-000.u48	Thank you very much, Madam President. I will just follow up on my honored colleague Radek Vondráček, because we have dealt with this issue of disinformation on the electoral committee, where Mr Michal Klíma was also present as a government agent, and we have also learned nothing there. So I'm also in favour of opening this item in the House. There was also Deputy Minister of the Interior Mr. Deputy Kolařík, who was also unable to tell us anything special about it. But I'm here at the moment because they resonate, even in the media, some things that concern the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. I will be very brief because I will propose two programmes according to the way I signed up for Madam President. The first is that there is a very resonant pension reform in the media. We haven't even presented her yet, she hasn't even passed the government yet, so I think she may still be texting somewhere at the Department of Labour and Social Affairs, but the media are full of her. All of us have some way of expressing whether retirement will be 68 or not, what conditions will be there, and still Minister Jurečka releases some balloons to respond to. He's probably testing how the public responds in this way, and then maybe he'll adjust the pension reform accordingly. And I would like us to finally discuss this at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies, not only in the media, because at this point, we simply do not have the document at all, and I do not understand how we should respond to all the sentences we learn in the media. [[16.30 hours]] So I would like to include this point also because it concerns, for example, the valorisation mechanism for old-age pensioners, which is to be changed, because, as has been said, even by the mouth of the Minister of Finance Stanjura, the extraordinary valorisation mechanism was not set up properly by the experts because no one knew that the Czech Republic could achieve the high inflation that we have at the moment. Here we have more than 16 percent, we have the fifth worst in the European Union, and we have the worst in 2022, on average, when it reached 15.1 percent. That means my colleagues here are listening to me as closely as they are. This is, of course, related to the pension reform itself, because the valorisation mechanism - we are opposed to changing it, because as an insurance policy, the extraordinary valorisation has worked, the old-age pensions have been exceptionally raised twice. And I understand that the de facto funding of the MPSV is not that Mr Stanjura at the Ministry of Finance really needs to look for more and more tens of billions. And maybe I understand that, for example, the 500 for the raised child that we adopted here about two months ago will be in the budget of less than 20 billion crowns, which are not there at the moment and must be there or will be, to be exact. As far as pension reform is concerned, my questions are when it will be to open it up, how, because I filmed an interview with the Czech Television on Friday, where they learned that it should in some way be adapted to the valorisation mechanism and the follow-up to the 500, whether it should be reduced, or how the government intends it after two months of adoption of this law, and actually the first old-age pensioners were already paid by the 500. I'd like to place this as a second point on Friday. As another point that I have there, and I'm going to follow it up smoothly, which I called as a threat to the functioning of social services of an above-regional nature in the B subsidy programme. What is this about? The point is that past governments regularly paid out so-called over-regional subsidies to social services. Everyone had their money in their accounts by January, but at this time in January, neither were the conditions under which this subsidy title should be paid here, and it will probably be paid in mid-May with the promise that 60% of these subsidies should be paid at the end of March. But who knows how it will work, because MPSV and Minister Jurečka scattered the Department II in the Ministry, which is the Department of Family Policy and Social Services. Those people are getting over it so far. There is no clear methodology, it is not clear who will report or under what conditions under the grant title. The comments that even the nonprofits have been dealing with are written "unaccepted" in most of them, and some are also afraid, according to the words of the MPSV, that they might fall out of this superregional subsidy program here, probably on the regional network, but it is also not known. And I would like to open this point here for the sake of clarity as to how over-regional social services that are under the care of 200,000 people, 200,000 clients who are in home care and who are at risk of de facto restricting themselves or disturbing social services, because they do not have the money until now. And the only thing that the MPSV told them to do according to these organizations here is to take over loans. So that's great, for example, a mobile hospice should go to the bank - I'm talking about a specific one that I've been hearing - and say, we need a bridge loan because maybe it'll come to us sometime in mid-May, maybe at the end of March 60 percent of the subsidies. Please help us. They say, "Do you have any promise?" They'll say, "No, that's always been the case, but at this point, the MPSV hasn't given us any such promise as an organization. Indeed, 200,000 clients, and especially those workers in social services, are in a dangerous situation. Of course, some people don't even want to take credit, and maybe they'll just start letting these people go, maybe with the fact that they'll pick them up again in the future. I would just like to put in place here for once, so that there are clear words in the Chamber of Deputies - to make order, as the MPSV really means, in the way that the Department II has put together in the framework of systemization, which is responsible for the payment of these subsidies here. And I would like to include this, please, Madam President, as the third point on Friday, right behind that point on pension reform. Thank you very much and I will no longer delay so that we can all who are here in the benches begin to vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-000-000.u49	Thank you. Ambassador, if I could just ask you to clarify... Mr. Ambassador, to clarify... Yes, that's what I've noticed, the name of the point is a little different.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-000-000.u50	The name of the point is Threatening social services of overregional character in the grant program B. A little more complicated, but once again: Threatening...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-000-000.u51	[[He's coming in.]] Thank you, although it's more complicated, I seem to have made it. Mrs Dražilová is now on the list and Mr Mašek, who is the last to be logged in, will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-000-000.u52	Thank you. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. Allow me, too, to ask for the inclusion of a point entitled The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs Plan to combat poverty between seniors and the growing poverty of families. Let's start with the data. Although wages will grow this year, people will buy less for them than they did a year or two ago. High inflation is still cutting from the wages and savings of citizens. According to the Czech Statistical Office, prices increased by more than 15 percent last year and this year's forecast of the Czech National Bank expects 9.1 percent. Wages will increase by a maximum of 7 per cent, as expected by companies and trade unions. The domestic level of real wages is now roughly at 2018 level. If forecasts about inflation and wage growth are completed this year, the Čech will be at the end of this year - in terms of purchasing power - at the level of 2017. According to available models, they will get back to the precocide situation first in 2026, provided that everything goes well. And we have another issue from the published data of the Czech Statistical Office on retail sales today. Compared to the average of 2019, households pay 21 percent more, but they take 4 percent less. Food makes it even more noticeable. People pay 17 percent more, but they take home 10 percent less. It all proves one thing. The effects of the current situation and the government's helplessness on social issues mainly affect seniors and socially weaker citizens. After all, almost 900,000 Čech are among the so-called invisible seniors, those who have trouble paying for their livelihood and are also falling through the state aid system. They deal with loneliness, income poverty, or resignation. The government defends its inaction by always reminding us that it has validated pensions, so no one really has anything to complain about. And he's kind of forgetting to say that this valorisation always equals up to a few months late, so the effects of catastrophic social economic policy simply end badly on the elderly. And now we even know that there is a plan to slow down pension valorization. But it's not just about the money. This government and its Members have long created an atmosphere of intergenerational hatred in society, including by constantly suggesting that pensioners, seniors, are actually something expensive and that they will not be able to afford pensions. Even, as my honored colleague Juchelka mentioned here, he wants to extend the age limit of retirement. A Czech citizen can make fun of it too, so today I got a text saying: When the undertakers come for me, I won't be home, I'll be at work. [[16.40 hours]] How else are you going to explain to the ministers that pensions are disproportionately burdened with the state budget? How else is a pensioner supposed to perceive similar expressions than the fact that he is actually burdening the system? Again, 86 percent of Czech seniors are entirely dependent on the pension system. They have no savings at home or at the bank, they have no millions, and their offense is that they have trusted the Czech social system, they have relied on no government to restrict it. And like I said a while ago, it's not just about the money. I insist. This government constantly creates an atmosphere of fear and anxiety in the elderly. How else are the seniors to interpret the Minister of Health's statement that he is considering charging health care? How are they supposed to view the Minister of Transport's statement that traffic discounts are a waste? And the same situation is with the socially weaker and those who have not had so much happiness in life. I would therefore like to know from the Minister not only his long-term plan to combat poverty and poverty in the Czech Republic, but above all the concrete steps that his office wants to take against this trend this year. I would like this item to be included as the third item in today's meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-000-000.u53	Thank you, Madame. Mr. Mašek is the last to be logged in for the time being. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-000-000.u54	Madam President, Madam Minister, colleagues, I will try to be short and I will propose one point: Drugs are missing today - when will the government really solve this? Because I am heedful of the Minister's instructions, who recommends calling pharmacies and finding out the current situation, I do this every time as a practical physician to know what I can afford to write on a prescription or not, so today I also asked what the current situation is. The current situation is that Nurofen for larger children over six months really in most pharmacies is, Nurofen for smaller children is not. Panadol Pharmacy from the pharmacy - somewhere it is, somewhere it isn't. We can celebrate, we've just received amoxicillin with a clavulate, which is a novelty we've been waiting for for a long time. But Augmentin is still unavailable, still blacking out. V-penicillin from Slovakia, which was imported in a number of tens of thousands, was spoken of as 20,000 packages, no longer to be, already delivered. And it is delivered at the time when its remuneration was finally fixed, so it was available here in most pharmacies in January, but it had to be written on a paper recipe and no remuneration was fixed for it, people paid 150 crowns for it. Now it's not in most pharmacies anymore, and the remuneration is set, so it's getting better. Azitrox, azithromycin declared that he was ordered in hundreds of thousands of pieces, should have come from Italy and Portugal, according to pharmacies not yet arrived. But thank God he's already paid, so if he comes, he won't pay. And this is a case by case. I can tell from yesterday's information from my assistant - which I have verified, who I learned it from - that if he didn't get Nurofen for his granddaughter, oddly enough, he went to a gas station, a chain that I'm not going to name here to do any advertising, so some of the gas stations have these inadequate drugs, and the market, as the minister says, is probably winning a little bit. [[succeeded?]] However, the Minister said here in his communication or explanation that he could not influence the market for medicines that are not on the recipe, that they are freely sold and that this is a market issue. But he contradicted himself because he soon said that the ministry ordered extraordinarily Nurofen in the order of hundreds of thousands of pieces and people in panic quickly bought it. The minister here said other things in which he actually contradicted himself, and he soon denied what he said at the beginning. He said, for example, that he was not invited to the round table - that was a really helpful hand to explain it on a professional level before any conclusions were made here in the House - he said that he was not invited, and then he waved an invitation that came three days in advance, with the fact that he did not consider it completely official. So the contradictions - the drugs are, the drugs aren't, the invitation was, the invitation wasn't - are a whole series. [[Noise in the hall.]] I will try to shorten it, so we really started talking about the lack of medicine for the first time in the summer of last year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-000-000.u55	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, to interrupt. Calm down, please. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-000-000.u56	In October, the deficiency was already clearly defined and should have been responded to, but the first reaction was not only at the time of the collapse of medicines, but also the collapse of emergency services. The Minister has not established the first drug working group until mid-December of last year, and the negotiations here declared, even with Prime Minister Fiala, with distributors and drug producers, have actually taken place, but only in mid-January of this year. Really, it's all late. And if the Minister has published on his Twitter today that he has addressed the responsible health services within the European Union, and he prefers it, I certainly wouldn't brag about it on Twitter. Deficiencies on a round table - I consider this to be a fatal failure of the Minister to be afraid to address the issue there. It's funny that the same type of invitation, i.e. mail or telephone, came up with a number of those invited. I will repeat again the title of this point: Drugs that are still missing today - when will the government really solve it? And I'd like to put you on the second item of today's meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-000-000.u57	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We've exhausted all logged in on the draft agenda. I wonder if anyone else is interested? It's not like that. We will therefore proceed to the vote on the individual proposals in the order in which they were submitted. First, we'd deal with proposals from the Gremium. If there are no objections, we would have voted on all the proposals from Gremia at once - it is not so. I've logged the logout application, so I'm going to unsubscribe you all, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your ID cards. I'll rejoin and wait for the number of entries to settle. And for the arrivals, I will just repeat that we will vote on proposals from the Gremium as a whole. We can hold out a little longer, we can see colleagues and colleagues coming. Please be patient. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? We are voting for proposals from the Gremium. Who's against it? Voting number 2, 158 Members and Members signed up, for 158, against none. The motion was accepted. We will now continue to make further proposals. We will be the first to vote on the proposal by President Benda, who proposes to place a point - to place item 88, House press 312, which is the law on association in political parties, on Wednesday as the first point. Isn't that right, Mr. Chairman? Wednesday? [[Ambassador Benda reporting for word.]] Yes, please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-000-000.u58	If I may, I have suggested the inclusion of all the four third readings, but that is more a question of whether we should vote individually, or whether we can vote tomorrow for the third reading as I suggested, that is 88, 86, 85, 84 individually.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-000-000.u59	Yes, the proposal is that we will vote individually. I will then vote on the first proposal. Let me repeat, House Press 312 is proposing to place the first point on Wednesday. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 3, 163 Members and Members signed up, for 107, against 55. The motion was accepted. The next proposal by President Benda is to assign, respectively, item 86, House print 249, which is the award of public contracts on Wednesday as the second item. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 4, 163 Members and Members signed up, for 161, against none. The motion was accepted. The next item proposed by President Benda is item 85, House press 238, which is investment companies, on Wednesday as a third item. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 5, 163 Members and Members voted in favour of 161, against none. The motion was accepted. President Benda's fourth proposal is to place paragraph 84, House press 48, which is the Civil Procedure Code, on Wednesday as the fourth point. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 6, 162 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 161, against none. The motion was accepted. President Benda also proposes to assign item number 11, House press 368, which is the area of defence, for Thursday as the first point after written interpelations immediately or after written interpelations at 11 o'clock. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking -- sorry, I'm sorry, so does that mean after written interpelations without options, let's put it this way? Or 11:00, so it's like one suggestion? So this point would be ranked, I repeat, as the first point after the written interpelations or at 11 o'clock. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 7, 162 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 90, against 18. The motion was accepted. The next proposal by President Benda is to put item number 12, House press 369, which is defence financing, on Thursday as the second point after the point that we have voted on. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 8, 163 Members and Members of Parliament signed in, for 145, against 16. The motion was accepted. President Benda also proposes to assign item number 87, House press 263, which is the Czech Television and Czech Radio Act, for Friday as the first item. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 9, 163 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 89, against 69. The motion was accepted. President Schillerová proposes to include a new point called Lack of Drugs. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 10, 163 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 74, against 78. The motion was denied. President Okamura proposes a new point called the Purple Government has tricked the voters and is preparing unprecedented begging of citizens in the form of tax increases. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 11, 161 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 72, against 86. The motion was denied. President Okamura proposes to place a new item under the poverty line that 40 percent of single parents already live, and the Fialův Government is not trying to help them effectively. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 12, 164 Members and Members voted in favour of 72, against 88. The motion was denied. President Okamura proposes to include a new point called Fialův's five-calice government proposal to increase retirement age to 68 years, which would be the highest retirement age in Europe, which is cynical. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 13, 164 Members and Members signed up, for 70, against 88. The motion was denied. [[17,00 hours]] Chairman Okamura... Calm down, please! President Okamura proposes a new item entitled Number of illegal migrants to the Czech Republic was a record 29 235 people last year. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 14, 164 Members and Members voted in favour of 24, against 88. The motion was denied. President Okamura is proposing a new point called the Fialův Government is enforcing a law that wants to bring us to war. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 15, 164 Members and Members of Parliament signed in for 17, versus 87. The motion was denied. President Radim Fiala proposes a new point People are sinking into poverty because of the government of Petr Fiala. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 16, 165 Members of Parliament signed up for 68, versus 89. The motion was denied. Minister Válek proposes to include a new point of congratulations on the election of the Chairman of the ANO 2011 movement Alena Schillerová. Minister... [[Noise and laughter in the hall, Minister Válek explains outside the microphone to the president.]] The Minister is withdrawing his proposal. [[Laughs in the hall.]] We will continue the vote. Vice-President Havlíček proposes a new point called Media Censorship. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 17, 165 Members and Members signed in for 73, versus 88. The motion was denied. Vice-President Havlíček proposes a new point called Teacher Demotivation. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 18, 166 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 74, against 80. The motion was denied. Madam President Schillerová proposes a new item Call for the resignation of Minister Válek. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 19, 167 Members and Members voted in favour of 73, versus 89. The motion was denied. Mrs Pokorná Jermanová proposes a new point Information about the Government's intention to sell the castle Štiřín and the concept of selling the necessary state assets. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 20, 167 Members and Members voted in favour of 75, against 49. The motion was denied. President Okamura to vote. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-000-000.u60	I was in favour of the previous vote to resign the Minister of Válek, but I have "stayed" at high school. But I'm not questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-000-000.u61	Yes, thank you. So we're going to keep going, so it's for the log...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-000-000.u62	[[After a brief meeting with President Schiller.]] Then I will question the vote. [[Laughs in plenary.]] Well, because it's a little sensitive after all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-000-000.u63	Mr President, are you questioning the vote? [[The answer is: Which vote?]] Colleagues and colleagues, it was a vote - I don't know the number - probably number 19, right? Well, let's wait until Chairman Okamura gets to the bottom of his head what number it was... (Embassador Okamura confirms the vote number after a while 19.) Yes, therefore, President Okamura is questioning vote number 19. If there are no objections, we would first vote on this objection. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? We are voting on the objection. Who's against it? Voting number 21, 167 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 156, against 7. The motion was accepted. We will therefore vote again on the proposal by President Schillerová, which is a výzva for the resignation of Minister Válek. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 22, 167 Members and Members voted in favour of 73, against 91. The motion was denied. We voted on Mrs Pokorná Jermanová's proposal. We would now continue to vote on the proposal of the Member of the Force, which proposes a new item called the Purple Government, responsible for the lack of medicines on our market. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 23, 167 Members and Members voted in favour of 75, against 91. The motion was denied. Mrs Pastuchová's proposal is on the proposal for a new point, which is the current situation at the Labour Offices. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 24, 167 Members and Members voted in favour of 73, against 81. The motion was denied. [[17.10 hours]] Mr Nacher proposes to include a new point which reads: Government information on combating misinformation. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 25, 167 Members and Members voted in favour of 74, against 79. The motion was denied. Mrs Adámková proposes a new item entitled Food Price in the Czech Republic, an impact on health care. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 26, 167 Members and Members voted in favour of 72, against 84. The motion was denied. We will now vote on Mr Farhan's proposal, which proposes to include a new item called Lack of Drugs in the Czech Republic. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 27, 167 Members and Members voted in favour of 75, against 79. The motion was denied. We will now vote on Mrs Šafránková's proposal, which proposes to place item number 20, House press 9, which is the Social Services Act, in variants as the second point today, or as the first point tomorrow, that is Wednesday. So we will now vote on the first option, the inclusion of this point as a second point on today's day. Isn't that right, Madam? I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 28, 167 Members and Members voted in favour of 75, against 82. The motion was denied. So we are going to vote on the second option, the inclusion of this point as the first point for tomorrow, that is Wednesday. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 29, 167 Members and Members of Parliament signed in, for 76, against 83. The motion was denied. The next proposal is again Mrs Šafránková, who proposes to place item number 70, House press 260... [[Noise in the hall.]] Colleagues and colleagues, please calm down! Point 70, House Press 266, State Social Support Act, in the first version as a third point today or second point tomorrow, i.e. Wednesday. So we're voting on the first option - as the third point on today's day. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 30, 167 Members and Members voted in favour of 75, against 89. The motion was denied. We will now vote on the inclusion of this point as a second point for tomorrow, that is, Wednesday. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 31, 167 Members of Parliament signed in, for 71, against 86. The motion was denied. Mr Vondráček proposes a new item entitled Non-discriminatory procedure of the Government of the Czech Republic in the fight against misinformation. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 32, 167 Members and Members voted in favour of 75, against 85. The motion was denied. Mr Juchelka proposes a new item entitled Pension Reform. Did I get that right? He's not here, so he probably did, he had it on his application like that. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 33, 167 Members and Members of Parliament voted in favour of 75, against 68. The motion was denied. Mr Juchelka also proposes to include a new item entitled Threatening the functioning of social services of an above-regional nature in the B subsidy programme. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 34, 167 Members and Members signed up, for 75, against 85. The motion was denied. Mrs Dražilová proposes a new point of the MPSV Plan to combat poverty between the elderly and the growing poverty of families. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 35, 167 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 75, against 82. The motion was denied. And the last point we will now be voting on is Mr Mašek's proposal. Does he propose a new drug point, which is still missing today, when will the government really solve it? I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Yes. Voting number 36, 167 Members and Members, in favour of 74, against 85. The motion was denied. So we have dealt with all the proposals you have put forward for the draft programme. [[17.20 hours]] And now we will vote on the whole proposal for the 52nd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as tabled and amended in writing by approved amendments. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 37, 167 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 85, against 25. The motion was accepted. I now have President Marek Výborný's priority right here, and then President Schillerová is reporting. Before I give you my word, I will read my apologies: Pavel Svoboda apologizes from 17:00 for working reasons, Štefanová Iveta from 16.30 - health reasons and Marek Výborný from 17.10 - but we see that he is here - for work reasons. Please, you have the floor, and I'm handing over the meeting proceedings. Thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-000-000.u64	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear Government, Prime Minister, fellow Members, first of all, I am revisiting my apology for time from 17.25 and, at the same time, given that we have spent more than three hours discussing the 52st meeting, rather for precautionary reasons, I ask that, on the basis of the agreement and proposal of the five Presidents of the MPs - ODS, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09, STAN and Pirates - we vote that today we will also vote in the resolution of the House of Press 374, workingly called Lex Ukraine V. That means the two prints - the law returned to the Senate and Lex Ukraine V. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-07-ps2021-052-01-000-000.u65	Ladies and gentlemen, have a good afternoon. There was a procedural proposal that we should act and vote in terms of territorial and procedural terms after 19th and 21st hours, respectively... [[Dissenting opinions from the benches.]] I've taken over the meeting, I'll do it again. Until the House press hearing... lex Ukraine, 374, that was the procedural proposal. I'm registering a request for your check-out. Before I read the apologies I have here: Mrs Iveta Štefanová... but these apologies have already been read. That means, first I'm going to check you out, I'm going to ask you to come forward again. The procedural proposal has been read, we all know what to put to the vote. There's no conflict with the procedure. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this procedural proposal, so how has it been loaded? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 38, 160 Members and Members registered, for proposal 130, against 4. This proposal has been approved. And I'm opening the first point of today's meeting, and that's it.
