ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-058-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, I have a message for you here and I would like to inform you that, on the basis of the decision of the Organising Committee, the 54th meeting is adjourned until Friday, 10 March, at 13:00. Before we begin this 58th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, I would like to remind you that about 7 minutes after the end, or the interruption of this meeting at 16 o'clock, we would start the 59th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, at 17 o'clock we would start the 60th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and at 17.30 the 61st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I am now opening the 58th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you all out and ask you to sign up with your identification cards. The replacement cards and their numbers are valid as stated at the 54th meeting. This meeting was convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 47 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Tuesday, February 28, this year. And now we would proceed to the designation of two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we appoint a Member of Barbora Urbanová and a Member of Ondřej kolář. Does anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 1, 134 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 132, against none. The motion was accepted. I note that we have appointed a Member of the Chamber of Deputies, Barbora Urbanová, and a Member of Ondřej kolář, as verifiers of the 58th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Now I'll read the apologies. Robert králíček apologizes from 14:00 for work reasons and Bohuslav Svoboda takes back his apology from 15:00. We would now proceed to the appointment of the 58th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application, no amendment or addition of the agenda may be proposed. It is also not possible to expand the approved programme. And now I have applications with priority rights. First of all, President Jakub Michálek, then Vice-President Karel Havlíček. Mr. Chairman Michálek withdraws, Vice-President Havlíček also withdraws, and now the President is registered with priority rights... One momentíček, Mr. Ambassador, now President Tomio Okamura is on the list with priority rights. Is he gonna perform? Is he interested in the show? You have an application, are you next? [[Ambassador Okamura is interested in getting off.]] You also have a preferential right of course, but written have priority. This means that President Okamura will now appear, then Vice-President Richterová, if she is interested - downloads, well, so then it will be Mr. Vice-President ANO Juchelka's turn to represent President Schillerová, who is duly excused. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-058-01-000-000.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, the SPD movement has long-standing support for our working families, we support birth rates in decent and working families, and systemic and effective pro-family policy is the flagship of our program. That is why, of course, we support the agenda of this opposition emergency meeting and therefore, of course, we also support the increase in parental contribution, even because we ourselves, through our SPD Member Lucie Šafránková, made our own proposal, which would significantly increase the parental contribution, and which would also include in this part of the Act on State Social Support a permanent valorisation mechanism, thanks to which the parental contribution would increase on a regular basis depending on the growth of inflation and its amount would not be so dependent on the individual governments, and especially our families with the smallest children would not be exposed to the disinterest and arrogance of the social governments of today's Fialův. Families with the smallest children under four years of age, which are related to parental contribution, are one of the most endangered social groups of Czech citizens, which is now even more true given the high inflation caused by the Purple Government, which really...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-058-01-000-000.u3	Mr President, I'm sorry, I'm going to interrupt you for a moment, and I'm going to ask my colleagues for some peace in the hall. I beg you to take care of your business in the lobby. Thank you so much. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-058-01-000-000.u4	So families with the smallest children under the age of four who are concerned with parental contribution are one of the most endangered social groups of Czech citizens, which is all the more true now, even given the high inflation caused by the Fialův Government, which brings the real value of the parental contribution far below its 2020 level, when it was last increased. And I stress that real inflation affecting families with young children is higher than standard average inflation, because the prices of basic life needs and costs of young families, where housing, energy, food, fuel, children's needs, medicines and medicines fall, if these families are not so much related to their children because of the Purple Government, or mortgage payments are growing much more and faster than the prices of other goods and services that young families do not have so much concern with. The overall rate of inflation since this last increase in parental contribution has now reached a limit of 30%, and unfortunately, other prospects are not too happy because of the unwillingness and inability of the Fialův Government to fight inflation and reduce it. That is why the increase in this contribution by CZK 100,000 is the absolute minimum we have to do here, and it is in line with the SPD proposal, in addition, in a situation where the Purple Government, with its entire huge service system, is unable to draw up and submit a bill to increase the parental contribution itself. Besides, she won't even do it, even though she promised before the election. But we have heard more of such unfulfilled promises and lies since the Fialův government. [[15.10 hours]] And when we have repeatedly tried to present our proposal to increase the parental contribution to the agenda ourselves, the government MEPs have always blocked it. The highlight of everything was the situation where we once managed to include this item at the House meeting, it was last year, but government MPs made it impossible to discuss it properly and vote on it by opting out of their voting facilities, even though they were physically present in the hall at that time. That was a slap in the face on their part to all families with young children. They were told that they were not interested in their serious financial and social problems and that they would not be able to solve them - let them handle themselves, basically the Fialův government told them. It was something disgusting. Unfortunately, it was no government unique excess in this direction. There was no mention of any significant systemic and long-term support for our working families, including support for birth rates, in the government's programming statement, even though some government parties have talked about it and talked about it. But as always, the deed has escaped from the government parties. At the same time, national policy should be an absolute political priority across the political spectrum, even in view of another serious issue - the future sustainability of the pension system. On the contrary, for us in the SPD, a clear long-term priority is and we have demonstrated this by a specific act, by concrete bills that we tabled in the House more than a year ago, and the government coalition refuses to let them discuss. This includes a really significant increase in tax advantages for children, these are SPD proposals, allowing and increasing tax bonuses and other tax discounts for working families, which in practice will mean that these decent and working families with children will pay almost no income taxes, or that working families with lower incomes will receive so-called tax returns, tax bonuses. Another systemic step that we propose to implement is the introduction of state-funded loans for working families with children under favourable conditions, with the reduction of the amount paid always after the birth of another child in the family, as well as the provision of a contribution to the mortgage payment at a time when one of the parents cares for the child on parental leave. All this, by the way, is part of our SPD program document called Family in the first place, which we published more than three years ago. We also want to increase the birth rate to the first and second children and provide them with birth rates for the third and every other child born. For working mothers or fathers, if they are caring for the child themselves, who are caring for pre-school children, we propose introducing a 30-hour work week for full pay, where the difference in wage costs would be paid by private employers to the State. These are all concrete SPD proposals compared to the pristine theories of Fialův's government statement, the government's programming statement, and especially against the real policy of the Fialův Government, which is strictly anti-family, which proves today and daily, the last thought of abolishing the tax discount on a wife or husband, which, once again, will do the most harm to working families with young children, because it will rapidly reduce their net income. However, we consider the increase in parental contribution to be absolutely acute, it was late yesterday, because we are eyewitnesses to the situation where families with young children, and especially where they are single parents, especially mothers, as a result of rising inflation driven by rising prices of the most basic cost of living and the needs I have mentioned, fall in large numbers below the threshold of income poverty, when they lose savings and are threatened by falling into debt spirals or executions. Of course, the Fialův government created this situation. Or they are waiting, these decent people, these socially sensitive groups, like retired people, for a complex and humiliating procedure at overloaded labour offices, which the Purple government of dilettants led by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, the incompetent Minister Marian Jurečka of KDU-ČSL, offers as a universal recipe for all the problems of people in this country, cynically boasting when he shows off statistics on how much percent of the number of applicants for these social benefits has increased. So Fialův's government and Prime Minister Fiala on TV - we all heard it, who watched his speeches - boasts that he's pushing more and more people into welfare. Well, that's a terrible government. Instead of aiming at as few people as possible at social benefits, it is best for the state to function, for citizens to have a decent standard of living, for all decent citizens, of course, even for the inadaptable ones - we have already proposed here a law to end the abuse of benefits by the inadaptable, and it is the members of the Purple's five-wheeler who rejected our proposal last year, because they would rather support the inadaptable than support decent people. This is unbelievable. And what does this incredible government actually say to people? The Fialův government tells people this: See how many people we have been able to get into serious problems, poverty and poverty in a year of our work, because I have to add that it doesn't mean anything else. That's terrible. I am still waiting for the laughing Prime Minister Petr Fiala from ODS and Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jurečka from KDU-ČSL, both with enthusiastic expressions on their faces, to photograph somewhere in front of the Labor Office, boasting how well they do it. The only case where I would be willing to tolerate this is if they were photographed there as unemployed applicants looking for a new job. At this point, I think the whole country would be relieved. But back to our main subject of this opposition meeting. There is also a very topical question of increasing the addition to children for working families, as well as simplifying access to them, because now only families with the lowest incomes and many families with children who are in a very difficult situation are entitled to this contribution. It is the parents of a single person with income of over CZK 22,000 a month, who are not entitled to the child allowance now, and who knows their situation, their monthly costs, and nowadays not only in large cities, they know that, without the help of the state, they are getting into unsolvable difficulties, debts and stress, when they literally have to turn every crown, and this is an honest-working people. In this context, it is also worth mentioning that in neighbouring Germany all families are entitled to the child allowance regardless of their income and that this addition was significantly increased there at the end of last year. Ladies and gentlemen, each government is good to evaluate according to its specific results, especially in relation to the economic and social situation of citizens, especially the most socially threatened, this is its business card, and, during the time of the Fialův Government, income poverty has increased by almost 100 percent, it now affects every sixth household. The number of households with income below the poverty line has risen from 9 percent at the end of 2021 to 16 percent in the middle of 2022, and I fear that the current figures will be even worse when a similar survey is carried out this year. In the case cited, these are data from the Life for Priceless Project. The Czech Radio and the Company FAQ Research worked on it. According to this analysis, the most vulnerable to income poverty are self-living seniors, single parents and single mothers, because about 50 percent of single parents, and thus children, were in income poverty last year. vloni summer, the server News List brought a four-part series of stories to some of these single mothers, and that is really the strength they wrote about, what reality is. But we know that, we know that in the SPD. The common denominator of all these stories is that these single mothers and their children survive thanks to financial contributions from the nonprofit society of the Free Mothers Club. You hear well - not through the social assistance of the state and government, but through support from a private organization. It's all about working women. I would like to quote just one of the descriptions of the situation of these women and their families, and I consider this to be very important right now, when we are to discuss increasing the parental contribution. The SPD's movement promotes an increase in parental contribution, but the Fialův government doesn't want it. I quote from this story the single mother, and it is one of many, many stories: "Now I have an extremely difficult time. Sometimes I wake up at night and go to the balcony to cry. I am afraid of what will happen if I can do it," one of these women explains the long-term stress about how to support the family. [[15.20 hours]] Another example: a family of four, a mother and three children, lives on a housing estate in a 1+1 panel apartment with a size of 35 square meters. After deduction of the cost of living, the mother will have an average of CZK 5 500 per month. It is purely mathematically about 40 crowns per person and per day. I quote: "If there were no nonprofit organizations to help these needy working people, we would have nothing to eat and where to live," says this lady. The Club of Single Mothers helped them with the water supplement and long-term use of food aid from the Kutnohor organization Klubus. And once again, she's a lifelong working woman. Where's the state and his help? Where's the government and its famous elevated doses that you're bragging about? The deed has escaped. I continue to quote the single mother: "I am now at a time when I am lost, I do not know what to get into because I am concerned about how prices will continue to develop. It's always bad at the end of the month. I have to keep an eye on the food. I'm splitting one pasta for, like, two days. I'm literally dividing the knees. If they don't come out, we're about buns and butter. But that's been getting more expensive lately. And the meat? We've got him twice a month. There are days when I don't eat alone so the kids can have enough." The end of another single mom quote. End of quote citations, which are also raw and legitimate accusations of this antisocial Purple government. It's a shame when you guys got here. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not talking about any distant theories here, this is about the dignified lives of millions of decent and working people, and especially children who cannot defend themselves and who are the future of the nation. Families with the smallest children, working families with the smallest children, decent families with the smallest children need immediate help. One of its forms is the fastest possible increase in parental allowance. The SPD law in this sense has been here for a year now in this House, and the Fialův government is blocking it. If the Fialův Government does not allow this, for example, by not approving the agenda for this extraordinary opposition meeting, it will confirm once again and definitively that it is an antisocial society of political parties and people who do not give a damn about the fate of their own citizens. And we say that it is simply necessary to increase the parental contribution by at least CZK 100,000, and I would like to call on the members of the Purple Government to vote in favour of the agenda for this opposition meeting so that you do not reject us, as you have done many times, because I have personally proposed this point to increase the contribution to children here many times and you have always rejected it. So I would ask you to support this extraordinary point in our opposition meeting so that we can increase our parental contribution. And we'll see if you'll be on the side of decent people, or, as always, you'll be against decent people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-058-01-000-000.u5	Thank you. Now with priority right, Mr Juchelka, who, once again, represents and has a mandate from President Alena Schillerová, who is excused. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-058-01-000-000.u6	Thank you very much, Madam President, I will be quite shorter, because I would like to raise the debate here and ask, of course, the views of Members from the government benches. The YES movement initiated this extraordinary House meeting precisely because it constantly hears various signals - and I mean really signals - I don't mean this pejoratively - from among the government and the government that something will happen with the parental contribution that it should increase. I know that the coalition is not united in this, and that is why I initiated this extraordinary meeting of the House precisely so that citizens know and can tell what they can expect in the future and know what they are up to. We have, of course, since the first July of last year in this Chamber of Deputies had a bill, an amendment precisely to increase the parental contribution, from 300 to 400 thousand. The proposal took the liberty of responding to high inflation, which was already really marked last year. At this point, inflation, which is 15.1 % in 2022 and 17.5 % in January, is indeed high and significant growth, of course, due to this inflation, has recorded a wide range of different basic cost of living not only for all Czech citizens but mainly for families with children. Indeed, we see price increases, especially in the food commodity, today and daily. Of course there are other commodities involved. For example, it would be good to clarify here how it is with child hygiene aids, because diapers that currently fall under the lower VAT rate are likely to be expected by the government in some way in the future to unite individual levels of value added tax in some way, and perhaps, for example, hygiene needs for children could fall to a higher rate, which would, of course, mean higher costs for families with young children. Because I would also like to know the opinion of the coalition, of course, and we have that time set by about three quarters to four, so I'm just going to give you a few basic data. Of course, poverty is most affected by single parents with more children, single pensioners, but also families with young children, where there is only one parent's income, the other is dependent, of course, on parental contribution. More than 50 percent of families with three or more children are located in the poorest band in the Czech Republic. Over 80 percent of single - parent households, as well as more children, and 20 percent of three - or more - children, have reported that housing costs are a great burden, and that income comes from households with difficulties or even difficulty on that scale. Almost every third such family cannot afford to pay an unexpected expenditure of CZK 12,800, because it doesn't even have it in savings at the moment. And really, according to yesterday's published survey, they actually live - or this week it was - some families actually from one day to the next and have nothing spared. More than 60 percent of households moving below the poverty line are left with less than CZK 3,000 per person to pay for housing and food, the poverty rate has increased by 50 per cent for singles and, of course, from around 12 per cent to 16 per cent for the poorer half of households. It's just, because I'm in the explanatory memorandum because my proposal here to amend the parenting bill was rejected by the government, so I'd just like to read some of the reasons I can't agree with, of course. First, the government notes that the proposed regulation brings a major impact on public finances and thus contradicts the government's programming declaration, emphasising responsible management, sustainable finances and finding savings. Of course, I would have acknowledged this here - and every government, including the last Babišův government, has acknowledged it, despite the fact that during the covido period there were budget deficits, just as at this moment due to the energy crisis - if at least she had taken some symbolic step herself to saving. We will, of course, have another extraordinary House meeting here to freeze the salaries of politicians, so maybe at least symbolically she could sign up for what she's saying here, and the fact that she would like to find, albeit of course it's just symbolic savings. The government considers that the explanatory memorandum to the draft law also underestimates the burden on the state budget and that it is estimated to be around CZK 10 billion, with an amount of CZK 11.8 billion, if we raise this parental contribution here by the CZK 100,000. Of course, we do not need to talk about the whole 100 thousand, we can go for example through the Pirate Party, which proposes 360 000, or I have read 350 000 from Minister Jurečka that he has such an idea, which means that the impacts would be lower. However, let us note that in 2022, about 8,000 children were statistically born less, and this, of course, is an intervention not only on the so-called reproductive, on the reproduction of the population as such, but, of course, also on the ongoing pension system, because without the birth of our children, of course, it is becoming increasingly difficult, and we see this at this moment thanks to the 70th strong years, the ongoing pension system to keep it going. [[15.30 hours]] Of course, I have other things here that concern raising the parental allowance. We would really like to appeal to the government coalition and to this government to finally stand up to the upheaval, because all the time it promises is an increase, but a deed for families to escape. I would also like to appeal, of course, to the government, that, as of 1 July in this House, the ANO movement has been able to use a medium to discuss quickly the increase in the parental contribution, which will not really be such a big deal in the budget, because it will actually be around CZK 10 billion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-058-01-000-000.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Olga Richterová is now registered with priority rights, and then Mrs Pavla Pivoňka Vaňková, who has the mandate of the club, is registered. Please, Madam Vice-President, you have the floor. Also, I apologize before I give you my word, I will read an apology: President Cogan apologizes from 15.15 to 16 hours for business reasons. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-058-01-000-000.u8	Hello, dear. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the word of the Vice-President, and since time is short, I will try to respond very austerityly and at the same time say what has already happened and took place in this field. It has already been said in those two speeches about families with young children. We, for pirát, draw attention to this in the long run that parents with small children, not to mention single parents, then on average have the least money from all households, per person, per head in the household. There was a drop in birth rate, which we note last year, which numbers can climb to a drop of 10,000 children. So did the general facts as to how the system works today. What did not say, however, that what is important to parents is predictability, guaranteeing some predictable total value that they can count on, that is very important for us. So that would be the first point I'd like to poke, and that's exactly what the pirát are, and that's increasing the total part of the parental contribution is one thing where we consider the amount that should be talked about, roughly from the total 300,000 to the total of roughly 360 000. It doesn't even fully match the inflation that went on in the meantime. In discussions with the MPSV it is more about an increase of CZK 50,000. But what's supposed to be there is really regular valorization. For us, the kick-off to the debate was submitted in the last parliamentary term. The colleague clearly knows that it was the YES movement at the time, which rejected regular valuation, unfortunately the debate did not take place in substance. I was sorry because I think that parents should simply have predictable planning. What's the result? For us, it is simply possible to expect that the parental contribution will be raised in some reasonable way over time to approximately the same fair value as for other benefits of state aid. The second thing that didn't come out, and it's very connected. In addition to this part, next to the amount that comes out monthly to support the care of the smallest children, today parents often take it up to 9,000, 9,500 a month, so next to this part it's necessary to guarantee places in kindergartens, children's groups, expand preschool capacity. That's just the second most important thing that goes hand in hand with it. As a government, we've done a lot of things in this. First, it is important to say that children's groups will be supported from the National Recovery Plan, to a total of CZK 1.7 billion. The aid is intended for regions, municipalities and other public institutions. It's really big money. They're for the next few years, it's good to prepare for it, and I hope it's fully used. Second thing. We've already supported the shortening of time, what we've been saying for years is necessary, and it has to go hand in hand with the capacity of care. Short-term contributions are now supported by a discount on social security. Everyone can track the details, but it's important, it's already in effect. And what's new is the so-called neighborhood babysitter. I've been talking for a long time about the so-called Tages Mutter in the German system. I believe that we will soon be able to present a proposal in the framework of an amendment to the Children's Group Act, which would transfer this principle of small groups of children, about four children in one household, to our environment. It could be a really great supplemental support and a rapid increase in the number of babysitting places available for normal families. And back to one more thing. To create these places in kindergartens, we will still have to talk about something that has been growing in recent years and in past governments, and that is excessive bureaucracy and excessively binding regulations. So I would still ask my colleague, through Madam President, how would he perceive, for example, the debate on Decree No. 410/2005 Coll., which today determines that a number of standards, regardless of the number of washbasins, regardless of whether it concerns other claims on how the equipment looks and also the conditions for the operation of everything where the education and education of children and adolescents takes place. Here, we would adjust it in a way that might be brought closer to the neighbouring countries, because today the excessive bureaucracy and excessive commitment by strict regulation means that we have more difficult conditions for kindergartens than in neighbouring Germany. When I sum it up, a lot of things we did, I tried to respond to a number of things. At the same time, I admit fair and square that the debate within the coalition is ongoing. As pirát, we have actually expressed almost a year ago that the parental contribution is actually falling in value over time, that we do not consider it right. It is now up to us to find a common solution in the debate. At the same time, however, parents want very much, at the same time, to increase the number of places available in terms of care, I have talked about this, and let us have the widest possible awareness of the support for part-time jobs. So much for me, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-058-01-000-000.u9	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. It is now registered with the priority right of the Vice-President of STAN Pavla Pivoňka Vaňková, and has here... Wait a minute...... sign up for what you want me to do. [[He speaks partly outside the microphone to Mr Juchelk, who calls something from the diaper.]] When I read something, I'm so sorry, I can't see you. I am merely saying that the Vice-President of STAN has a mandate from his Chairman Cogan, who is duly excused. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-058-01-000-000.u10	Madam Vice-President, fellow Members, I would also like to comment on this press for the STAN movement. Of course, we all realize that support for single parents and families with children is very important. That some of my previous speakers said that the deed had escaped, I certainly cannot support it in my speech, the deed did not escape. To be short and just to complement Vice-President Richterová, the point is, of course, that the government is taking a lot of measures in the framework of pro-family policy. The strategy of national policy will be discussed in the coming days within both the social K5 and the large K5 and the government. A large law on family and child protection is also being prepared, so these are the things that are going on, except those that we have already implemented and mentioned by a colleague. Why, however, we cannot agree with this legislative proposal in the form that is presented to the YES movement. Excepting that it is budgetaryly irresponsible, because it increases parental contribution by a total of 100,000 - we have become accustomed to it that the YES movement is not too responsible for budget, and we know this from other proposals - but what is important is the proposal for valorisation. We think that the valorisation mechanism, which will be prepared and agreed between us within the coalition, should be one that would work low in the inflation period, even when inflation is high, and this unfortunately does not meet this proposal. So for us, we would like to open this debate not only within the scope of the amount of parental contribution, its further valorisation, but also as part of the need to take into account the transposition of the Work-life Balance Directive. And when we are agreed within the coalition, we will also be happy to consult these proposals within the opposition, because I think that we should agree on this issue and this support for families across the political spectrum. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-058-01-000-000.u11	Thank you. Mr Juchelka will now speak with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-058-01-000-000.u12	Thank you very much. I will respond to my two colleagues, through you. First of all, I would like to say that we can agree, of course, on the agenda of this extraordinary meeting here, and then we can discuss it. That means that if you come out here as opposition MPs, I understand, but if we just approve the program, then we can discuss it. It seems to me like it's completely unnecessary. As regards predictability and valorisation. Of course, we have valorisation in this amendment, which accurately copies the valorisation of extraordinary pensions. I cannot imagine that there will be any formula that regulates the valorisation of both low inflation and higher inflation, which is why we have, for example, proper valorisation, pensions, a different spectrum or a different formula for raising old-age pensions than for extraordinary valorisation, where, for example, only the merit part is increased. We have this law 14 years old here. What is also important for us is that in no way does it interfere with the freedom of families, so that the family can simply decide on their own parental contribution, so that I would say that there are no other restrictions on the type of paternal transferable, or even that they would in some way paternalize or penalize, forgive me if, for example, parents did not take turns in caring for the child. Every family is a single unit, and everyone in that family can decide, as an adult, who will care, if the father, if the mother, if they take turns in the middle. We have a benevolent parent who is up to four years old, and from six months on, everyone can work if they find, of course, a babysitter, such as micro-doubts or neighborhood groups. So, of course, why not, it's his decision. As far as 410 is concerned, this is a decree which, as far as I can remember, is the Ministry of Health and I know that it is, of course, problematic. Let's talk about it. I am in favour of adjusting the parameters of this decree here, and I am in favour of changing some things there. I remember, for example, that in this decree they have some parameters such as windows, window sizes at kindergarten schools, and that it is not possible for children to be guarded, for example, somewhere else where we cannot do the kindergarten and there are other suitable spaces, because there is a lack of light and so on. Which I think is really out of date at this point. There's some things I don't say, like right by those windows. As far as Work-life Balance is concerned, I will be very careful about this and I will really watch very closely where it will be heading in the Czech transcription, as I mentioned, because of the freedom of families themselves. As far as the family law is concerned, I myself am curious about what this government coalition will come up with. For the time being, the concept of family policy, which is here at the moment and is in internal commentary proceedings, can I say that I really like it only half as much, because there are a lot of proclamations and little specific things that should help families. Mrs Vaňková, by your means, mentioned the law that is being prepared, and that is the law on the social-legal protection of children. There's going to be a really big discussion here, because for now what's in my hands, I'm saying a major disagreement. The way this policy is conducted on vulnerable children is really unacceptable to me. This law, if it is passed in the form in which I have read it, and it will actually be the issue of vulnerable children, I would say, from the state to eliminate and give more space to people who really have nothing to do with it, so I have a major problem with that. The state should protect the children, the state is here to keep the endangered children in their minds. But I do know that there are still major changes being made from the point of view of the Child Welfare Act. I also say for us that we will keep a close eye on this. So I'm quitting at this point, I'm probably not gonna be performing at this point. I would ask Madam President if she could approve, of course, and I would ask my colleagues very much to approve the agenda for this meeting so that we can finally go through it. It can really be very easy to go through the first reading of this law, which we have actually prepared on 1 July. For many of the things that my colleagues have pointed out, simple amendments can be made in the context of a joint discussion between government and opposition MEPs so that eventually everyone will be satisfied, because, as my previous speaker, Olga Richterová, said, through you, indeed not even the 350 000 proposed by the MPSV, perhaps even the 360 000 will not cover the inflationary costs, and it is necessary to do something about it and help families with young children. I'm not just saying this because I want to be budgetaryly irresponsible or that I want to be the one throwing money around or even being called a populist, as some of the coalition's performances are sometimes labeled by some of my colleagues, but it's only from what we see around us. If food prices, fuel prices, energy prices, prices of various other commodities, above inflation, which is 17 percent, then, of course, you need to help families with children. Sometimes it's time to just help the way it was needed for the covid or for this crisis, and sometimes it's just time to save. Then I'll just give you one example. I always enjoy the fact that when we are to add - that is, of course, the parallel with the families - so every time the economic boom is, entrepreneurs thrive and so on, they never joined the elderly because it was always said: we have to save for worse times. When the worst times come, the elderly didn't always come along, because they always said, "When we have these terrible times, we must, of course, get out of it so that we can have an economic boom again." I am glad that this ended here, that we could de facto cover the inflation costs not only to old-age pensioners but also to others thanks to extraordinary valuations, which is a 14-year-old law. This is also what we propose here, for example, in the case of parental allowance, because the valorisation mechanism, the extraordinary and proper one, is only for old-age pensions. I don't recall him being anywhere else, with any other payments from the state to the citizens. It may not even be at licence fees when we were talking about public media this morning, it's always the House's decision. Thank you very much and I hope that you will approve the draft of our extraordinary meeting, the draft programme, and that we will be able to discuss this even further, then even after the first reading here in plenary, the committees that we will be able to do about it, perhaps even a few round tables, that we might say that by the first half of this year we could promise citizens that we will increase their parental contribution, precisely because they are being reduced to finance thanks to inflation, with which unfortunately this government is not doing anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-058-01-000-000.u13	Thank you. Mr Okamura with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-058-01-000-000.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to forget about today's important date. Allow me, on behalf of the members of the SPD, to wish all women all the best for their holiday tonight. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-058-01-000-000.u15	Thank you. Anyone else applying with priority rights? It's not like that. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby. We will now vote on the whole proposal for the 58th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. I'm picking up an application for a check-out. So I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your I.D. cards. [[15.50 hours]] We will now wait for the number of entries to be settled. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-058-01-000-000.u16	Madam Vice-President, I'd like a three-minute recess. We said there'd be a vote at 15.50. I'm just getting back members of the government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-058-01-000-000.u17	I'm just pointing out, Mr President, that yes, we're gonna take a break, just seven minutes before the meeting needs to be closed, so two minutes, if that's the way to go. By 15.52 the chairman of the ODS club, Marek Benda, takes a break. So I'm declaring a break until 15.52. [[The hearing shall be suspended from 15.50 to 15.52 hours.]] Yes, I see. [[To the votes from the diaper.]] Thanks for the heads-up. So it's 15.52, I'm done with my break and we'll continue. We will vote on the whole proposal for the 58th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 2, 157 Members and Members signed up, for 77, 4 against. The motion was denied. I can say that the agenda of the meeting has not been approved, and this 58th meeting is adjourned. We will now adjourn our negotiations within 16 hours, when the 59th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies will begin.
