ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-012-084.u1	84. Members of Martina Ochodnická, Josef Flek, Tom Phillip, Bohuslav Svoboda, Klára Kocmanová and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 65/2017 Coll., on the protection of health against harmful effects of addictive substances, as amended /German press 321/ - first reading according to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is therefore proposed that we give our consent to the draft law at first reading. I have received information from President Jakob that the agreement of the club presidents is that we will be able to negotiate this proposal or this point and therefore continue after 13:00. We received the Government's position as House Press 321/1. I would like to ask her to present the proposal as the applicant for Mrs Martina Ochodnická. Madame, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-012-084.u2	Hello, Mr. Vice-President. Prime Minister, Dear Government, Colleagues, Colleagues. I apologize for cutting your break short, but I dare you to step forward. I tried for the first time what it was like to wait for the norm and to get here, so I am grateful that our club leaders made it possible for us to negotiate this point. It is three quarters of a year, ladies and gentlemen, when I first discussed with the Minister that nicotine bags are not only used in adictology, but also in our children and young people. It's been three quarters of a year since we started figuring out that nicotine bags will have to be reduced in some way - their sales - and that our standards and laws do not match that. After three quarters of a year, when we talked about it with the Minister, I came home where I had two children, 11 years old and 12 years old, and I was shocked that their classmates - perhaps even they - already had experience with nicotine bags, either using them or at least in their classrooms. That's what we're talking about, second grade elementary school. What followed was that STAN Josef Flek and I told each other that we would try it as non-smokers. I have to tell you, what happened next was a really big shock. As a non-smoker, I endured it for three minutes, and then I felt like I was drinking three big shots, let's call it a slivovitz. That is why we have decided to follow up on legislation that has already been prepared by opposition movements, to supplement it and to correct what was in the Government's opinions after these standards have been submitted. That is why I come before you today even after we together with Professor Adámková and Josef Flek organized a round table that connected three topics, but nicotine bags were the main one where we wanted to hear the views of both experts and others. The chieftain of Central Bohemia Petra Pecková, who told us that the founders and mayors in the Central Bohemia region consider this a huge problem. They find children who vomit in toilets that lose consciousness and all that, and the problem got out of hand... out of control, sorry. [[12.50 hours]] As a result, today, with humility and great hope, I come before you with an amendment to the Health Protection Act against the harmful effects of addictive substances. This bill amends Act No. 65/2017 Sb. This is the House press 321. This bill responds to the ever-increasing interest of children and adolescents in so-called nicotine bags. Based on the monitoring and detection of the situation in practice, it has been assessed that there is a high risk - and beware, this is the most important - the emergence of nicotine addiction. The results of toxicological studies show that the content of harmful and potentially harmful substances is significantly lower than that of oral tobacco, and this should be stressed. Nicotine bags in quotation marks are still healthier than a common cigarette, especially for our children. But we want to make sure that, of course, they don't use that or that. According to an estimate by traders of current sales, they account for about 200 million bags a year, of which about 70 percent now fall to nicotine bags. The number of users is estimated at 200,000 and 150,000 are users of nicotine bags, 50,000 chewable tobacco. 11 percent of 13 to 16-year-old students present regular or daily tobacco smoking. Nicotine bags have fallen out of it today. In particular, this amendment proposes the introduction of a ban on the sale of nicotine sachets to persons under the age of 18, including a modification of the sale of this product in a manner similar to that addressed to tobacco products, electronic cigarettes and herbal products intended for smoking, using existing control bodies and the practice used. I, Mr Josef Flek, Mr Tom Philipp, President of the Committee on Health Bohuslav Svoboda and Mrs Klára Kocmanová, thank them very much for this, but at the same time I would very much like to thank all 62 other Members, both the Coalition and the members of the ANO opposition movement, who have added their signatures to this amendment. What's it like today? Nicotin bags are already contained today, and yesterday I faced the question, they mostly crossed out 18, but it is not enforceable any control and are sold to children under 18 years of age. At the same time, in many cases, the packaging looks like a parent or a teacher does not recognize that it is not chewing gum, but it is nicotine bags. The MEP's proposal was passed by the authorities concerned, which issued various opinions. I think the rapporteur will certainly comment on them. And in the Chamber of Deputies - and it is necessary to say this here and I consider it fair - there are two other related proposals by Members of Marek Novák, Tomáš Helebrant, Petr Sadovský, Michal Ratiborský and others, but also by Members of Jaroslav Bašta and Mrs Věra Adámková, House prints 246 and 247. It must also be said that the Ministry of Health has prepared a related decree which addresses the other issue of this amendment, which merely prohibits sales under 18 years of age, which is the composition, appearance, quality, characteristics, labelling and obligations of manufacturers and importers. This decree has already been approved and will enter into force from 1 July so that producers can prepare themselves. Then the maximum amount of nicotine in that bag is 12 milligrams. And now, at the very end of the day, don't let me keep you any longer than it's absolutely necessary, because I'm grateful that you gave us this opportunity. I thank the Ministry of Health, the Coalition Members, headed by Josef Flek, whom I do not see, Professor Věra Adámková, whom I also do not see, to all those who participated in the round table, Mrs Petr Pecková, and to all the directors, teachers and sellers. And in conclusion, I would just like to ask all of you who are here or what you see and perceive me. In fact, the law and prohibition do not solve anything if we do not work on prevention, so if each of you, by name, will have the desire to sign up for this and to place on your networks or anywhere else, that nicotine bags are harmful to our children, that they exist, that they are dangerous and that they can cause addiction, it may be more than the entire approval of this law for our children, for our teachers, for our founders, and especially for parents, because I still encounter that many parents do not know that there is anything like that exists, let alone that they have the opportunity to buy children. And one last point. The children themselves are surprised that it's common to sell, to get to it. That is why I would like to propose one last thing, and it has already been sent by the Vice-President, so that for this reason and for the reason that we may have agreed on what this amendment is supposed to look like, you have already allowed approval in the first reading under Section 90. I'd be very grateful. And as the national drug coordinator said, we're not looking for an addiction-free society. Our task is to minimize the risks and impacts, especially when it concerns our children. Colleagues, colleagues, thank you so much for your attention, and once again, I am so sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-012-084.u3	Yes, thank you. Madam, please take a seat at the rapporteur's table, and I will now ask Mrs Pastuchová, who is the rapporteur for first reading, to introduce us to the news report. Madame, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-012-084.u4	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, and thank you all. It is not common for a coalition here - the opposition to agree on something right and good, and I, as a paramedic, welcome this proposal. I have to say, I didn't try, so I'm gonna try. But I will be the rapporteur here, I will say that on 20 October this House press was submitted by Members, a group of Members. As the appellant said, at the moment there are still two identical House prints under 246 and 247. The bill was sent to Members as House press 321 and, as the appellant has already told the President, he proposed to the House to discuss the bill so that the House could agree with it at first reading in accordance with Section 90 (1). 2 of Act No. 90/1995. I will just say briefly here, because the time comes, that the proposal was sent to the government for an opinion on 25 October and it was brought into line with it. I would also like to say that in a detailed debate, I have received legislative technical amendments, which I will have to read in a detailed debate so that everything is right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-012-084.u5	Thank you very much to the rapporteur and I am opening up a debate in which - the general debate - Mrs Kocmanová is the first to report to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-012-084.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, this proposal has already been presented in detail by the appellant, colleague Ochodnická, yet I will shortly speak with the opinion of the Pirates Club. The main aim of this proposal is to prevent the sale of nicotine bags to children and adolescents under 18 years of age. According to doctors and adictologists, bags are clearly highly addictive. Yet today anyone can buy them without any restrictions. The concentration of nicotine in sachets is often higher than that of other tobacco products. The most visible risk is the rapid onset of a strong addiction. This is accompanied by the emergence of tolerance, which forces the user to constantly increase the dose. It is even more dangerous for children that not only does they develop physical dependence more quickly, but nicotine can damage brain development because it is neurotoxic to an undeveloped brain. At the same time, however, it must be said that nicotine bags are less harmful to an adult smoker than classic cigarettes and, as such, can therefore be an effective means of quitting smoking. These are all very strong reasons for the sale of these bags to be regulated to allow only adults. An important role will also be played by the forthcoming decree of the Ministry of Health, which will regulate the requirements for composition, appearance, quality and characteristics of nicotine sachets, in order to prevent nicotine content being different for individual products. Quality and quantity requirements are crucial in preventing harmful use. Therefore, we will vote for the Pirates Club to approve the ban on the sale of nicotine bags to young people under 18 years of age. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-012-084.u7	Thank you. Another one for the general debate is Mr Novák. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-012-084.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'll start easily. Well, finally, finally! And I'll start with a question. Where were you when we asked you here to press 246, which is almost identical in order to participate in the hearing? I am sorry that we do not have a Minister of Health here who, when the press submitted by members of the ANO movement - Novák, Ratiborský, Helebrant and Sadovský - did not support him. But I have the Minister of Education here, and I must thank him for his support. Thank you so much for that. I also thank you for allowing me, in fact, to sign your proposal, which is very similar to mine. I feel like not only the translator but also the contractor of the work. Well, great, thank you very much. And really, it was in the middle of last year, it was June 12th, when I put the law with my colleagues into the system. And I'm sorry about one thing - I'm sorry about one thing. We could've had it all figured out for six months. Oh, no, we've been playing politics here, so come on, kids, you can have another six months before we can figure out who, what, how they put it, and who they can sign. And now that I've heard my colleagues, who have just described the tragic situation that's going on here so beautifully, I'm going to cry. But on the other hand, if I take the history we've been doing here, I don't get it. Your parents came to see you, your teachers came to see you. You knew it was in the system, that we could approve it, that some Novák was loading it twice into the program, once in June, for the second time in October. You didn't support it once. Explain to me why? What were you waiting for? We could have had it blown out in a way. And those who came to you and to us could be satisfied. Parents could be satisfied that their children were more protected, and teachers would not deal with sudden nausea and actually find out what was wrong with the child. Oh, no, we did politics here. It's a shame. It is a great pity, and just as I, as a parent, see it with my children and a lot of parents, and thank you for calling on colleagues: Share on networks that nicotine bags are evil. And they are. They're highly addictive. Well, thank you very much for that. But I can't thank you for the trial itself. It falls on the heads of all of us and, in a way, the honourable House, as we actually treat our citizens here, because it is not important to us what we present, but who will present it. And that's a cry. It's very sad and I'm sorry. I'm sorry about the kids that we had already had at the beginning of the school year, if we were really good here and we really cared about them, at the beginning of the school year teachers could have been clearly given: Nicotine bags are forbidden to sell to teenagers under the age of 18. No, we were guessing. Great. So what did we do? We have achieved that nicotine bags are finally banned. Yes, there's an over-the-counter 18 on those boxes today. It's great. However, the vendors in the individual boards aren't really forcing anything, they're not telling them they can't sell it. There's supposed to be an agreement between the manufacturer and the seller, but of course we can't control the agreement. But we're going to have another number of tasks, much more, because we have other substances here. It's a crap that nobody really cares about right now, because of course there's always something new coming up, and it's only when we hear what's going on from the company that we're dealing with here. But it would really be appropriate to keep working and working for the good of society, not for the sake of who sells here. That's how we should perform, that's our job, that's what we said here when we made a promise. Not who's gonna write it on the net first, but what I'm gonna do for a citizen here. So thank you very much, thank you very much for finally being able to get the result. On the other hand, I say that we still have a lot of work to do here in the area of addiction, and it really is a field of neo-ranny. As far as prevention is concerned, we should focus not on prevention, but on primary prevention. And if we look at the way primary prevention is financed today, in the area of prevention, 4 percent of the total amount, 4 percent are represented in the area of prevention! The rest is a follow-up care or a fight that, in a way, shouldn't even fit the number. So that's where we need to look. We invest in children, we monitor what programs in schools go, what they deal with, how companies certification at the Ministry of Education is carried out. This is also a very important topic for me to go to school, in the final stage who will pay for it. Most of the time, parents pay their primary programs today because schools don't have the money, and unfortunately, they're not small sums, and not everyone can afford it. So then it turns out that one of the students is composed of the socially weaker ones. That's a shame too, isn't it? We're not gonna make it this far. We can ban people here what we want, but if we don't educate, educate, say to them, "Use, but it's gonna do this to you, this and this." As far as nicotine bags are concerned, unfortunately, their history is in sports. That's where it started. From sport, it was transferred to schools. Let's see where we can help. But once again, we can ban everything, please start focusing on the amount of funding that goes on primary prevention. There's a buried dog. Thank you again very much and we will definitely support this proposal for the club YES.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-012-084.u9	The next one entered in the general debate is Mrs Maříková. Madam, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-012-084.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I can say for the SPD that we will also support the proposal. There's been a lot of talking about nicotine bags, and I'm not gonna say it again because it's after 13:00. But what I would say here is that instead of discussing the other two prints 246 and 247, which deal with the issue in the merged debate, while I understand that you have a majority here, you would overvote it and you would have voted on your coalition proposal, but I would have assumed that it was at least a little decent behavior, and in the past it worked, so here we are only discussing the 321 press, which was the last one to be loaded. So that's the only thing I think I'd blame. We will certainly support this, as Marek Novák has already said, we will have to deal with other substances such as kratom in the future. So at this point, I guess it's everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-012-084.u11	Thank you and the last one for the debate is Mr Heller.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-012-084.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very short, and I keep my promises. I am a teacher myself, and I know very well what nicotine bags in schools are like plague, primarily in primary schools. And at the same time, I know what a huge mess this is. We don't really approve of this law in a minute 12, not five minutes after 12, but maybe fourteen to fifteen o'clock. It's late, but still. [[13.10 hours]] I am very glad that the coalition and opposition can agree on this, on the enormous needs of this proposal. At the same time, I remind you that there are other substances in the same or very similar situation. Again, it is not a minute 12, for example, for a substance that is a huge problem in schools, and absolutely unregulated. And we're gonna be running out of time for the next few years. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-012-084.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. So far, you're the last person to sign up for the general debate. Mr Brázdil is reporting with a point of fact. Ambassador, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-012-084.u14	I do not want to delay, but I would like to say to my colleague, through you, Mr President - you know, this fight will never end. It never ends. As humanity itself is, it uses these psychotropic substances to fool itself into simplifying its life. And that's the way it's gonna be, and there's gonna be more stuff. And that's why I think that such a law should be designed so that the substances can only be supplied so that we don't have to open it again and so on, just add one word, one chemistry, and so on. But it's just, I'm sorry, I don't want to hold you back, I just want to tell you that colleagues, we're never gonna win this fight, because you're still a creature who wants to make his life easy on himself, make him an experience and stuff like that - sometimes good, sometimes bad. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-012-084.u15	Thank you for keeping time. No one is now reporting to the general debate. I'll check the O.R. to see if anyone's checking in. This is not the case, so I am ending the general debate. Is there interest in the final words at this time? It's not. No objection has been lodged against the hearing pursuant to § 90, but we will now decide pursuant to § 90 para. 5 on the continuation of the discussion of this proposal. I will give you the motion for a resolution. In the meantime, I have begun to ensure that other Members can come to the ballroom. The motion for a resolution is: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the continuation of negotiations on the Houses of the Press 321 so that it can be agreed with at first reading.' I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of such a motion for a resolution? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 62, 151 Members were voted in, 109 voted in, no Member opposed. The motion for a resolution has been adopted. So we can continue our negotiations. The following is a detailed debate. I am opening a detailed debate to which the rapporteur is reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-012-084.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. As I have announced, here I will read legislative technical modifications to the print 321: First of all, in Art. I, Amendment 2 to the word "including footnote 13' and to delete footnote 13 itself. At the same time, the reference to footnote 13 in Section 2 of the new point q) after the word "unie" to replace the reference to footnote 1. The reasoning is that the valid wording of Act No. 65/2017 Coll., on health protection against harmful effects of addictive substances, as amended, already a reference to Regulation No. 178/2002 contains footnote 1 in Section 2 (b). i). Therefore, it is not necessary to introduce a new footnote but to refer to the existing one. Secondly, in Article 2 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011, the following definitions shall apply: I, the amendment point 29 of the word "nicotin bags without tobacco content" shall be replaced by the word "nicotin bag without tobacco content." Reason: in Amendment 29 relating to § 35 2 (a). [[This ……]] (e) an incorrect fall and a plural of the replaced words are used in relation to the previous text under (e). This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I, the amendment point 32 of the word "nicotin bags" replace the "nicotin bag." Reason: Again in Amendment Point 32 § 36 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (c) a single "nicotin bag" number should be used with regard to the previous text, including the text of the whole valid version of the law. [[Like?]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-012-084.u17	Thank you very much. Who else is reporting to the general... sorry, to the detailed debate we are now having? No one else is reporting for a detailed debate, so I am ending the detailed debate. I'm asking for an interest in final words? Both the designer and the rapporteur are no longer interested in final words. We will therefore proceed to the vote on individual legislative technical adaptations. Maybe I'll ask the rapporteur to go over the votes of the various technical adaptations at the microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-012-084.u18	I would suggest if we could vote en bloc on these legislative technical amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-012-084.u19	Yes, I will put your proposal to the vote. There is a proposal for the three legislative technical amendments to be voted in whole. I'm going to vote and I'm going to ask who's in favour of this procedure? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 63, 152 Members were voted in, 112 voted in, no one opposed. We have approved the procedure, or the fact that we will vote in whole on legislative technical amendments. So we can proceed to the vote on the legislative technical adjustments themselves, as the rapporteur has read them in the debate. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Let him press the button and raise his hand for these legislative technical modifications. Who's against it? Voting number 64, 152 Members have been voted in favour of 112, against none. Legally, we accepted the technical modifications as they were loaded. We now have no other proposals, so we will proceed to the vote on the whole bill. Yes, I've logged interest in the check-out, so I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to re-subscribe with the ID cards. In the meantime, I will apologize: my colleague Kaňkovský apologizes from 13:00 to 18:00 for work reasons, Mr Tomio Okamura apologises from 11:30 to 12:30 for work reasons, Ms Eliška Olšáková apologises from 13:00 to 14:00 for work reasons, Mr Petrtýl apologises from 14:30 for work reasons, Mr Smetana Karel from 13:00 to 14:00 for work reasons, Minister Válek from 12:00 to 15:30 for work reasons. The number of Members has stabilized. I will make a motion for a resolution on which we will vote: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the motion of Members Martina Ochodnická, Josef Flek, Tom Philipp, Bohuslav Svoboda, Klára Kocmanová and others to issue a law amending Act No. 65/2017 Coll., on the protection of health against harmful effects of addictive substances, as amended, according to House press 321, as amended.' I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion for such a resolution? Get him to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 65, 118 Members were voted in, 117 voted in, no one opposed. And I am of the opinion that we have given our consent to the bill. I conclude the discussion of this item number 84 and thank the appellant and the rapporteur for their work. It's 1:18 p.m., lunch break. I will remind you that we will return to the conference room at 14.30, followed by point 137, namely oral interpelation. Enjoy your meal and have a nice rest of the day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-012-084.u20	Good afternoon. The next item is
