ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-19-ps2021-066-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 66th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you out, and I would like you all to sign up with ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who is applying for a replacement card. The meeting was convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 107 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Friday, May 12, this year. We would now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we appoint Mr Zdeněk Kettner and Mr Hayat Okamura. Does anyone else have a suggestion, please? I don't see anyone. I'll call in colleagues and colleagues from the lobby. We will therefore vote on the proposal for the verifier of this meeting. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? In voting number one, 112 Members and Members, for 108, against none. The motion was accepted. I note that we have appointed Members of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Zdeněk Kettner and Mr Hayat Okamura, as verifiers of the 66th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I declare that by the beginning of the meeting, the following Members asked to apologise for their absence to the meeting: Adámková Věra within 16 hours - working grounds, Andrej Babiš whole meeting - working reasons day, Bašta Jaroslav whole day - health reasons, Bauer Jan whole day - working reasons, Bělica Josef whole day - working reasons, Berkovcová Jana whole meeting day - working reasons, Burešš Jan full proceedings - working day, Dvořák Jaroslav whole day - medical reasons, Faltynek Jaroslav within 10 hours - working reasons, Fischerová Romana whole day - medical reasons, Foldyna Jaroslav whole day - medical reasons, Gazdík Petr whole day - medical reasons, Hájek Jiří whole day - working reasons, Havel Matěj Ondřej whole price - family reasons, Havránek Jiří whole day - working reasons, Hofmann Jan full date - personal reasons, Horák Jiří whole day - personal reasons, Jílková Marie whole day - working reasons, Kasalov David whole day - working reasons, Kobza Jiří whole day - working Kolovratník, Kolorodivník Martin whole day - working reasons, Král Václav whole day - working reasons, Krutáková Jana whole day - working reasons, Kuchař Jan vlček Lukáš day - foreign trip, Levko Jarmila from 11.15 - foreign trip, Ondřej Lochman from 11.15 - working reasons, Metnar Lubomír whole day - working Barbora, Němečková Crkvenjaš Zdenka whole day - medical reasons, Pastuchová Jana whole day - medical reasons, Pivoňka Vaňková Pavla whole day - working days - working days - working reasons, pokorný Jermanová Jaroslava whole working day - Wenzl Milan, Potůčková Lucie from 13 hours - working reasons, Salvetr Rudolf whole working day - medical reasons - medical reasons - Urbanová reasons, full Vondrák reasons, full medical Ivo, full Karel reasons, full medical Vrána, Staněk Petr Stand whole day - working day - medical reasons, medical Kasal Full-day - Šimek David - working day - working day - working day - working day - working day The members of the government apologize: Fiala Petr all day - working reasons, Bartoš Ivan whole day - working reasons, Bek Mikuláš whole day - working reasons, Blažek Pavel from 10 o'clock - working reasons, Černochová Jana whole day - foreign travel, Dvořák Martin whole day - working reasons, Hladík Petr whole day - working reasons, Kupka Martin whole day - working reasons, Langšádlová Helena from 11 to 12 o'clock - working reasons, Lipavskýý Jan whole day - working reasons, Nekula Zdeněk whole day - working reasons, Válek Vlastimil whole day - working reasons. We have one more apology, Minister Šalomoun apologizes from 12 o'clock for work reasons. So many apologies. We would now proceed to the 66th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No change or addition of the program can be proposed. It is also not possible to extend the approved agenda. And now we have priority rights to design the show. President Jakub Michálek is the first to sign up, then Vice-President Karel Havlíček. Please, you have the floor. [[Constant noise in the hall.]] Colleagues, colleagues, I beg you to remain calm. Yes, thank you. Just wait a little longer, please. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-19-ps2021-066-01-000-000.u2	Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, dear government, dear citizens, let me briefly explain why this extraordinary meeting has been convened. As a government, we made a commitment in the programming declaration that we would take action against the concentration of economic, political and media influence. It is not only the Czech Republic's problem, many citizens have been anxious for many years to see certain developments in the concentration of economic, political, media influence, for example in Hungary, Italy, and it is something that can come back to us at any time in the future. That is why the government has submitted, or coalition majority, a bill introducing two principles into practice that we already have in the legal order, but are not really enforceable, so that government members cannot receive non-interest-free public contracts and non-interest-based subsidies. At the same time, so that politicians are not allowed to own the media. We have tried to include this bill several times, but we have always faced major obstructions. That is why I have proposed this proposal in a modified form, which also includes comments from government legislators, as an amendment to a proposal that regulates the competence of the Office for the Management of Political Parties and Movements, which sets out its scope and complements the new scope in the area of supervision of the law against conflicts of interest. Unfortunately, since then, even this bill, the House press 312, has not been able to discuss it. I am also sorry about the Minister, because the bill was discussed at meeting 8. 2. 2023, 52nd meeting, there were obstructions during the approval of the programme and discussion of the item and then two hours break at the meeting of the ANO member club. So it's been excavated all day, five hours. [[9.10 hours]] Friday 3. The 5th, 63rd meeting, was ranked as the seventh point. There was a two-hour recess before it was opened. And I'm afraid we're going to face another obstruction now. If we add to this the time we spent discussing the House press 110, which was also included at the 16th meeting on Friday 8. 4., once again there have been obstructions, so overall we are only getting to 30 hours of pure time in this parliamentary term by trying to construct this point both in direct ways, in breaks and in indirect ways, or by designing many dozens of other points on the day when this bill is included. Overall, we are talking about the fact that this amendment to the conflict of interest law, which has been here since the last Chamber of Deputies, has not been negotiated for nearly three years. I think it would also be polite in the Chamber of Deputies to change the way in which this bill is being debated and negotiated. Thank you for supporting the agenda, and thank you for letting us all talk to the point and not trying to do anything directly or indirectly about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-19-ps2021-066-01-000-000.u3	Thank you. Now with priority rights, Vice-President Karel Havlíček is applied for, and then President Alena Schillerová will speak with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-19-ps2021-066-01-000-000.u4	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, honourable Member, honourable Members and honourable Members of the Government, yes, we have an extraordinary meeting here where the five-wheelers want to address how politicians must not own the media. To translate this, politicians, according to the coalition, must not own virtually anything anymore. The media must definitely not own according to the coalition, but they can buy them, they can buy individual journalists. It's too bad my interpellation didn't end yesterday at the Office of the Government, where it turns out that they obviously want to sponsor journalists from their favored media. Luckily, the other editors found out, so they pulled it off. But that's just a statement about who preaches water while drinking wine. I am convinced that at present people, companies and our society are suffering from something completely but completely different. What bothers them is that from the perspective of the economy, perhaps we are on this catastrophic -
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-19-ps2021-066-01-000-000.u5	I apologize, Mr Vice-President, for interrupting. Colleagues, colleagues, please remain calm.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-19-ps2021-066-01-000-000.u6	Thank you. What worries them is that poverty is growing, and it worries them to see the government's futile actions to address this situation. The government has decided to deal with this forcefully. And after a year and a half of doing nothing in this area and relying on it to sort things out, that the central bank would sort it out, that inflation would eventually turn around and so on, she understood that she had to take certain steps, and she presented what we saw at that desperate press conference last Thursday. Consolidation package and some kind of attempt at pension measures. I wanted to take it apart today and outline it from a different point of view. And I'll take it without emotion because I believe that the consolidation package will endanger the economy in the medium term. I am not saying that some of the things that the government has presented cannot be resolved in the short term - I point out in the short term - by helping our budget in a small way. But what has been presented has nothing to do with any economic judgment. It's a purely accounting perspective that follows this government to play next year, maybe another one, in some condition. Unfortunately, it won't work, and I'll try to explain why. Unfortunately for this government, of course, maybe thank you for the others. First taxes. Despite the fact that this coalition and, in particular, the Civil Democratic Party have built their promises, I'm sure you remember not to raise taxes, and I note this not only before the elections in 2021, but also after the elections. I would perhaps understand that there was an emergency and that some promises will be corrected and changed slightly. So be it. I'd take that. But still in October 2022 Prime Minister Fiala in an interview for Nova TV - and watch it, I put it on the network, just the interview, nothing more, nothing less, nothing was edited there, no disinformation, just this conversation. It takes one minute. So in October in this interview, among other things it already has a view of 2.3 million, so in October 2022 in this interview he repeated several times that no taxes will increase. It was when the budget was being prepared. He made it clear that corporate taxes would not increase, that tradesmen's contributions would not increase, that VAT would not increase, and he said to the word and to the letter: we would not increase taxes. Period. Again, he didn't say that in 2021. I might still understand that there have been changes. He said that a few months ago. Period. That's reality. The result? A few months later, taxes increase as they have never increased in the history of the modern Czech Republic. Corporate income tax. You can say it's only 2 percent. It's not the 2%, it's the fact that if we add it up and look at the business sector, the industrial sector, you have to see what it's been going through in the last three years. And I'm not saying it's all because of this government. It's caused by higher power, it's caused by covid, it's caused by war, it's caused by an energy crisis, we have to see it. Yes, in the covide era, we tried to catch it somehow, we compensated it, not as much as everyone might have imagined. The opposition then wanted us to put even more into that economy, today they're criticizing us for it. But I don't want to go back to that. But in any case, we ensured that the companies could breathe and that they survived an extremely difficult time. And I'm not saying that we did everything ideally, and I'm not saying that everything we did, that I would sign up for it today. But we tried to keep up the business sector, we didn't shut down industry, among other things, which I think was pretty crucial, and we did it. Among other things, the gross domestic product at the end of 2021 was not bad at all. In any case, then, the energy crisis came, and this government did not catch price growth - we all know this very well - although it claimed several times that it could be resolved at European level. Unfortunately, everything was done lately. As a result, energy prices grew at one of the highest rates in our country. And if I was really bad, I'd say, at the highest rate. But okay. I take it the statistics can always be bent a little bit. In any case, we see this: one of the highest increases in electricity and gas prices in the Czech Republic. And it was undoubtedly one of the reasons inflation was growing. Why do I say that? I'm saying this because the companies logically responded to it. And they responded by stopping investment, stopping innovation. It's a perfectly natural thing. In other words, this is how companies behave when they are in an unpredictable environment. Adding to this is that they are still dealing with the problem of the shortage of workers, by adding that we have one of the highest taxes on work - which is true, and it was also promised how they are going to deal with it - and by taking into account that there is extreme support and subsidies in the surrounding countries - which I do not praise, I am stating, that is the fact - the result is that logically companies are worried and worried. And that, of course, will begin to manifest itself. The fact that you argue with the Minister of Industry that the year 2022 actually went well above expectations and that we have great results from the business sector here is a sign that it does not understand how industrial enterprises in particular operate. Of course, they commute with a certain inertia. This means, if there is a problem, they have fixed prices, but still that year they will arrive in some condition, but it manifests itself negatively in the following year and in the following years. So it can be expected that in 2023, 2024 this will actually be reflected in the corporate sector. And in that situation, we're raising their taxes. Finally, let's see how the war tax increase turned out. Do you remember those vows? Do you remember how Minister Stanjura told us 100 billion crowns here, how this will be handled beautifully? When we said it was on the verge that CZK 100 billion was too much to optimize, financial companies said so, energy companies said so, not laughter. You were right, so we see the result. [[9.20 hours]] That's reality. It's just that companies have done their own thing naturally, so it's going to be considerably less. If it's 40 billion, 30 billion or 20 billion, it's hard to expect right now, but in any case, you've cut by multiples. So in any case, the decline in the business sector, which you're increasing by increasing their taxes, will mean that the company sector's performance will decline at a certain time. And that'll catch up with us. It will catch up with us by being at a certain time, not telling us in this year, not saying in the next year, missing revenue, well, and these revenues will logically manifest themselves in lower growth of gross domestic product. It's very simple. I think that anyone who has ever driven an economic operator knows that it is impossible not to think about the future in times of crisis. And that's what they're thinking, especially by innovating and investing. That's what bothers me. Demotivation. It will be even worse for self-employed people. That's where the social base is going to rise by 60 to 70 percent, some say even more, they have to count it, we all know how the new model is set up, which means it's going to be from the minimum wage. Of course, it depends on how the minimum wage will be set. I'm guessing it's about 70 percent. Which sounds to me like he's completely fucked up. So we, on the one hand, take the EET, that is, cancel the EET, say we, but of course this government did it, drives those companies into the grey zone to then state that there is a need to choose more from them. That's how they raise their social charges. I merely point out that Minister Stanjura, Minister of Finance - not in 2021, not even in 2022, but let us listen well: in 2023, exactly 16. 4., it hasn't been that long - do you know what he said? Listen carefully: there will be no increase in fees for businessmen. I didn't notice anyone seriously suggesting it. Once again, I didn't notice anyone seriously suggesting it. Are you seriously making fun of us, Minister? After all, you all know that Minister Jurečka has been proposing this for the third month. I'm criticizing it, it's criticized by a lot of others, we can argue about whether it's a good thing or if it's a bad thing, we say it's a bad thing, Minister Jurečka says it's a good thing. But to be honest, I don't blame him so much, he's suggesting it, and there's some discussion about it. How can the Minister of Finance tell this government when it's in all the media, when it's been discussed for weeks, that he hasn't noticed anyone seriously suggesting it? So, as Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, he's a ruthless man? Who's that? He's the Deputy Prime Minister. He's been suggesting it for weeks. Here's one thing I'm drawing on: either he's being brutally lied to, or the government isn't communicating at all, or there's no telling who's doing what in that government. What kind of ideology is that? Let's talk ideologically whether it's right or wrong, so be it, but for God's svatý, you don't even know what's going on? That sounds really tragic to me, this. Among other things, Minister Stanjura says, I repeat, a month ago: there will be no increase in fees for businessmen. - Bang. Government press conference less than a month later - 60 percent. In other words, basically exactly as he suggested a few weeks ago, even months ago, I think it was about three months ago, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Jurečka. And the argument, and that's really interesting: it's fair. That's the famous song you must know about those self-employed people. Well, who always sang this song? Do you remember that? I'll remind you - ČSSD and KSČM. I didn't like it. Even as President of the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises - and here I see colleagues, you know we fought for it, and you fought for it, Mr. Munzar, and you fought for it, you had a very rational view, you know I respect you as a person. So we always argued that it wasn't that it wasn't about justice, injustice. After all, you must remember that, my colleague, as we said, this is about another regime of self-employed workers, that they have no social security, that their role in the economy is completely different somewhere, and so on, and so on, that they are the foundation of the countryside, the basis of the infrastructure. We can do it again a hundred times. You all know that. For God's svatý, you have a finance minister from the ODS! And you argue what ČSSD and KSČM said! But I understood it from them. They always said that, I don't blame them, we were finally in government with the CSSD. I'll admit this isn't going to work for me at all. Where are your ideas? Where are your opinions? Where are your visions? Where are your arguments that sounded logical to me at some point? I really, really don't get it. And to justify it by actually helping them, the tradesmen. I really don't get it. I don't understand. And there's no point in commenting. Anyway, how's that gonna work out? Those self-employed people are gonna take it somewhere else. Unfortunately, that's a fact, that's reality. I'm not saying it well, but most businessmen in the finals, we have half a million of them, I mean, those who are on full regime, in the finals, they pay taxes on what they have, not on what they should pay properly. In many ways they survive, in many ways they barely stand to support the business, the business, especially somewhere in the country. Plus, let's remember that they're even more complicated today. We all know that demand is falling, demand is falling due to the fact that it's going up. That's right. We can talk about why he's getting expensive, who's to blame, but they don't really care. They see that people buy less. We all see that, especially in smaller towns and even then in municipalities, the purchasing capacity of the population simply declines. At the same time, their inputs are growing. We can see that, too. Let's see how much energy was paid. And once again, we can talk about who's more responsible and who's less responsible, but the fact is, it's the businessman's fault. He's got higher inputs, he's got lower demand at the moment, and at the same time his social contributions are rising - not much. Perhaps we can see that 70 percent is not something that is completely negligible. So this is the next step, and we will all bear the result, because it can really endanger their existence far more than anything else, and not to mention that, of course, this can affect rural service, the region and so on. Let's move on. Property tax. Yes, we all know the mechanism, it's supposed to be income for the municipalities, now the state has increased it, and the benefit of it wants to be taken by the whole of him. Well, of course he's entitled to it, I'm saying he's not, but he's entitled to it, I'd say right. But what did Mr. Finance Minister Stanjura say, let me be objective now, not a month ago, as he said about the businessmen, but before the 2021 election? The state must not punish people for buying an apartment or a house or an establishment where they do business to support themselves and the family. We won't allow an increase in property tax. Punkt. Period. The result? The property tax is increasing. Yes, there will be no other way. How's that gonna work out? Exactly as Minister Stanjura said before the election - rents will increase. And that's why he didn't want it back then. And actually, we understood him a little bit. We didn't do it either. The fact that we thought about it is true, but it's perfectly logical. Every finance minister is kind of trying to think about where he's gonna get more resources. Finally, we came to the conclusion, including the Minister of Finance, that we cannot do this, that we simply cannot do this. So, to a large extent, maybe we understood a raised warning finger. If the Minister of Finance hadn't come and done exactly the opposite, he would have done the exact opposite. Not by 10 per cent, not by 20 per cent. 100 percent. Do we understand each other? 100 percent. So, businessmen by 60 percent, here by 100 percent. Sick. Again. When I heard the Minister of Finance explain it at the press conference, the charms with the Karen age, like it was ten years ago, seven years ago, and so on. Let's cut to the chase, Minister. He'll just pay more on the sick day. And it's not enough. Those employees, in order to take away a whole series of small benefits under various tax exemptions - and we're discussing them, here I would take the debate - so they just pay more for the sick person. Period. And we're on VAT. Magic again. I admit I didn't understand the VAT at all. Not that I don't understand what you're going to do, I understand very well. And even now, I'm not even going to tell you that you've done 0 for books and 12 percent for magazines, including various dubious magazines and 21 percent for newspapers that go to the community, and so on, that doesn't work for me either, but you've already heard that. And at the end of the day, I think you're going to get beat up by the media, and you're going to download it to the 12 percent newspaper, and it's going to be good anyway, because it's illogical. [[9.30 hours]] I don't want to be just sneaky about this right now. Anyone who's doing something will probably make some mistakes, we've made them, too. But the essence, the whole VAT package that you've prepared, everything looks beautiful, something goes down, something goes up, you all know very well that the traders keep it from the overwhelming majority and that it doesn't show up at prices, while for those who raise it, it's probably going to show up there, but it's probably not much. Make sure I'm objective. We expected it to be the fourteen, so thank God, it's a little less in the end. But why is all this being done when there will be no big benefit to the state budget, even apparently, as Minister Stanjura will have a negative impact? [[Did he?]] So we're saying that we're not really going to help people, so in the worst case, we're going to increase the prices of water, and we're going to be losing it. Then why are we doing this all the time? I even think it might be slightly upside-down. I am not saying fundamentally upside-down, like trade unions say, but it can easily be upside-down. So there's a mix-up. Now, of course, there's going to be a huge lobby from the left, from the right, if it's right, wrong, wine, water, I don't know what everything is, I can imagine what's coming to you. You're smiling here, and you know that's how it's gonna turn out, the lobbying. But let's just answer another question, you have to deal with it now, so you set it up like this, so you're going to explain to everyone and make all kinds of concessions. But let's think about why the whole thing was done when the state lost on it. I don't have a head. Where we agree not to be just negative, so some excise duties, hard alcohol, tobacco, vice and so on, there I think it's probably reasonable at the moment. But what was I gonna say with the taxes, for God's sake? And I have to say it again -- if the CSSD, the PC, came up with it, I get it. But it's like the flagship of an ogre, it's just not normal. Don't be mad at me. And I don't take it, dear colleagues, colleagues from the Odees, and I'm not saying it badly, that you're saying: but that was a compromise, we had to do it. No, don't be mad at me, they're excuses, and you know it. Odeaska is the biggest party, and you've completely let progressives, activists, I don't know, socialists, I don't know what I'd call it. That's really not a compromise. You are becoming part of this government formation with a full field, that is, including ideology. And admit it. You've been blaming us a lot. Okay, okay, I take it that's part of the parliamentary debate, democracy. Do you remember how you blamed us for ruling with the ČSSD with the support of the KSČM? Yes, we ruled with the support of the KSČM, that's true. And you might also remember that at that time there was a lot of pressure basically all the time to raise taxes. All the time. Even though we really didn't have it easy because we were a minority government, with the silent support of the KSČM, we managed not to increase taxes. Even when we look at it, we cut taxes. And we can have fun right where. And I guarantee you, and you must know that the pressure to raise taxes was. And that's the crucial difference between us. You're in government today - I understand you don't have it easy, there are five sides, from Sumava to Tatras, every dog, different village. But you're like the ODS' strongest party out there, and unlike us, you're totally outrunned! I'd probably take that if you raised one more tax. All right, well, you said the compromise was made. I'll take that. And you didn't raise one tax. You've raised all taxes practically, both on the treadmill, just like no one's raised it here. So check out your ideas that were a few years ago. But the essence is somewhere else entirely. Why didn't we raise taxes? And I stand by it! And you can really blame us for things, and sometimes you're right. So by raising taxes, we are not going to solve the problem in the long run. And you're smiling again because you know it's not gonna work out. Short-term yes, maybe, but you lose motivation, you lose performance. And if we're going to solve that, so the state is going to swell by having a problem - and he has a problem, that's right - that we're going to increase our tax revenue and so we're going to ease our savings, so... I'm just not gonna go through with it. And you can call me anyone, like a populist. But if what I'm telling you right now seems populist to you, then I don't know what I'd call what you promised. Well, that's taxes. And the second thing that you guys were into, and it sounded good, and I have to say, from that press conference, it's resonating today, and it was perfectly prepared: the end of the grant business. If it wasn't a lie again. When I say the end of the grant business, it sounds beautiful, and all rational people have to say, okay, that makes sense, we're not going to keep giving those so-called naughty entrepreneurs any more and more money, we're going to twist the environment and so on. And many have applauded you for that, including journalists and so on. But it can't be done. This is not possible because the vast majority of these subsidies are from the European Union today. And yes, you don't have to give subsidies from the European Union, but then we have to give them back, because if we don't give them back from the European Union, it's not really gonna help the budget. And we can talk about not splitting them up, give them back. And I see there now, my friends, the minister, like the industry, rejecting the 100 billion crowns and saying, no, no, no, naughty Europe, I'm giving you back those with 100 billion crowns, because we decided not to give them to those companies. We can talk about what key they share. You also know very well that this is more or less planned from the European Union. But they can come back. Well, it's not gonna save on the budget, it's gonna save on national resources. And here I'm trying to explain to you that you're not going to save practically anything. You can spare, but let's not call it a grant business. It's not like it's a grant business! Why? [[In an elevated voice.]] Because you said - even if it was very general so far, because you were afraid to go into detail - that you would write it down, for example, by taking 20 billion from the Ministry of Industry and Trade. Well, you can't take them there, or you can't take them out of the grant business. There are only two sources where you can get it, I know the budget by heart. The first one where you can get it is a billion, and that goes to the money that goes to so-called energy-intensive operations, and that's the compensation for emission allowances, it's 1 billion plus minus a year. That's where you can take it. I can see how you're going to explain to these companies that the rising price of emission allowances will manifest itself by taking away the only subsidy they had there. But you can do it. Fine. All you have to do is deal with these companies. I wouldn't do it, but I respect it. You'll take the billion. And the rest? You wanted to take 18 billion crowns from renewable sources. I don't know, does the Minister of Industry even communicate with the Minister of Finance? He will come to the government with this - the Minister of Industry - that he is to return the 18 billion that he has rightly taken over in the time of the energy crisis, after which we called on his shoulders to at least lighten up for households and businesses. The Minister of Industry will come up with the government's return, so it was agreed that it would be by the end of 2023, which I do not blame him for. [[unintelligible]] I blame the Minister of Industry for a lot of things, but this is basically fulfilling what has been promised. That means he's gonna turn it back into consumers and businesses and he's gonna walk away and save it on the state. Well, then you have to tell me what to do about it. Then it won't pay off for the investors? Are we out of our minds? We know we can't do that. Not that I'm defending them. We all know that it went wrong, that it went wrong in 2010, 2011. And let's talk about who was the maker. Most of you weren't here, overwhelming. Who was here, we all know who lobbied. But the fact is that the 600 billion crowns will cost us, the photovoltaics. That's when it was built, the solar parks, and since then the charges have to be paid in this form - part goes to the state, part goes to the consumer, part goes to the company. A total of 44 billion crowns, 18 billion crowns of which go to households and companies. They're thousands of subjects. And you all know it's been sold several times. So there are no more solar barons. That's where the people who normally invested are standing. I don't like it, that's true, but I can't deal with it by sending them all down. We fought against it. And even there I had... I wasn't quite sure if we were doing it the right way, but we did it eventually. And I think that's a fair way to go - to reduce their earnings, that's a margin. That's where it can be set up. I'm not gonna complicate it right now. But maybe you remember 2021, we came up with a cut in their profits. That seems fair enough to me. In other words, we have to pay them back, but not in the full amount. [[9.40 hours]] They were rebelling back then, I had a hard time with them, of course, I understood them, on the other hand they understood us a little and we came to some compromise. Among other things, do you remember the crazy vote here in October or September, or when it was? No, before that, was it, sometime in the summer of 2021, when there was a vote about what the solar investors' margins would be? I designed them lower, and in the finals, you said they'd get a little bit higher. And who wanted the tall ones? Well, it was mostly five-caliber, especially the SPOLU and so on. I remember that huge lobby that was. I don't want to go back to that. All I'm saying is that it was quite a fair trip from my point of view. It's set, we said, we're gonna do a black line, and that's it. And today, when you find out that you've miscounted it, you're pulling the handbrake and you're saying, "We're going to a thousand arbitrations." You don't have a chance to win. You don't. And I'm not going back to who else was behind it. So only to the MIT. Well, actually, you have one way in, you can do a little trick. And that's because you haven't exhausted 30 billion of support for large businesses. Do you remember when we asked you here to finally do something and give support to big businesses? I've said it 50 times around here. The so-called European Union subsidy framework. After the thunderstorm and after there really was no rest, and under tremendous pressure you finally did it and you put it there, thank God for it, 30 billion crowns. Just because it was late, when did it start? Since 2023. When was that? Well, by the time the prices went down the natural way again. To say it in Czech, at a time when the companies needed it and other companies in the world had it, you didn't give it to them, because the Minister of Industry totally overslept, and at a time when they didn't need it anymore, which is since the beginning of 2023, so it works for them. The result is that, of course, you're not paying it, that's quite understandable, so you're saving something on it. So far, you've paid 5 billion, 25 of which remain. So, yes, the Minister of Finance can take it, whether we call it unused expenses or whatever else, what he investigated there. But that's not saving on the grant business. This is the result of the failure of the Minister of Industry, who misjudged it and gave the support place briefly and quickly, so he gave it late and poorly set. So, unfortunately, that's kind of your problem. That's really not saving the grant business. And then you're saving up on the grant business. At the Ministry of Transport, CZK 6 billion. Great! Excuse me, where's the savings on the grant business? I mean, you're somebody with some kind of economic education. The fact that I don't give money to transport infrastructure, which you can do, the fact that I don't give money to regions, the fact that I don't give money to maintenance, the fact that you can't undoubtedly do it, I won't deny it, but don't call it saving the grant business. It has nothing to do with this. Just marketing again, nothing else. And then you say, let's take the subsidy business further, 5 billion it is - the Ministry of Regional Development and Education. So it's schools, kindergartens, senior homes and so on. Local communications again. Is there some kind of grant business? You see something like that in there? It's not. You're saving up. Yes, I do. And you can do it. Then you claim to take 10 billion from agriculture. That's where it's clear again what you're headed for. But once again, if we look at the details of the agriculture, you'll find that it could be 3, 4 billion, that's all it's national. The rest are European. Even the Minister of Agriculture, when the reporters asked him about it, he swerved like a rabbit! Because he knows he doesn't have 10 billion national sources. And we can talk about whether it's a good thing that these farmers and food farmers are gonna get away with it, 'cause we're gonna reboot the imports and reduce self-sufficiency. But that's a different thing, that's an economic thing. I'm talking about the accountant, the tech one, now that you called it that. And then you have 13 billion crowns, so you have no idea where you're going to get it, and you're going to restock it. I'll fill you in. You're not taking them anywhere. You can spare, I'm not saying you can't, but not in the grant business. It is simply because it comes from European sources, not from national sources, except for the absolute exceptions that I have mentioned here. So I'm sure you can save money. It's not that I'm saying no. It's even absolutely necessary. But please call it the right names and don't lie again. You take it from education, from transport and so on. And what's even spicy, if you take it from the transport or the education, of course, the ministers are defending themselves, which I understand, because they usually have somewhere agreed or promised, so you're doing it in Solomon and you're saying, well, we're going to borrow it. In other words, we will save and make up for expenses by borrowing. Well, that's an incredible economic policy! It's possible with the loan. You get 5% of that big National Recovery Fund, or you can take it from the European Investment Bank. Now you're gonna take it to... so in ten years, you're gonna start paying back, and the next 20 years, you're gonna pay it back. Please calculate the 5% interest rate it's going to do. Again, we're just playing. But we can definitely agree that it makes sense to save the 20 billion crowns, plus minus rounding it up, it's up to the state. Yes, we'd sign here. But again - as we say we'll do 20 billion crowns, in my opinion it's been being prepared for several weeks, why hasn't it come up with the agenda? Why didn't it come up with the idea of combining these agencies, this agenda? That we're going to cut these and these organizations that are, which I think is the right way to go. We'll do it for you. I know you're gonna laugh at us again, but we've already entered into the shadow government with all the state organizations, all the agencies, and we'll show you where to save money on them. And if you say, why didn't you? Yes, you're right, we weren't hyperactive in this, either, but we've merged something, we've put some agendas together. And I remember that lobbying that day, like the Fuel Cobbin Ústí and Diamo, we finally did it and we saved 100 million crowns. So I'm just saying it's just a matter of wanting, and at some point, times of crisis, and I don't blame you for not doing it for the first week, yes, the situation has evolved. Then why didn't you just reshape it? Why didn't you show the agendas you're going to merge? You have hundreds of people for that! We are the shadow government and we have a few ministers and we have dozens of people behind us. You have hundreds and thousands of people in those offices. We can't compete with you on this. I don't understand why you didn't bring it. And then, we've consistently collected taxes. I can talk again about why you canceled the EET, I'm sure we won't agree on it, but in any case, a more consistent tax collection would certainly add some resources to your budget. In our opinion, it is somewhere between CZK 10 billion and CZK 20 billion in more consistent tax collection, another 20 billion in what we agree on, and these are the savings in the individual departments and subordinate organizations and state companies and so on. And then we'd probably agree on the excise duties. If we add the whole thing up and underlined it, we'd start moving around at some level of 40, maybe 45 billion crowns. Better lay low, 40. And that's the balance, or that's the amount that we would be pulling the balance down every year over the next few years. Can you say it's not enough? 40 to 50 billion crowns? Let's say 40. I don't think that's enough. But they're real numbers. You have presented some, here I have written it, 94.1 billion and another year another 53.4 billion crowns. But they're a housenumer. You can't spare that. It's just that paper can handle it. So you better say it's going to be less, but honestly do it, at the same time don't destroy investment, at the same time don't demote the business sector, at the same time don't drive people into greater and greater poverty. And that structural deficit, which we have somewhere at CZK 200 billion, we can get together in five years where we need to go. And I guarantee you that if you look at other countries that have debt in the vast majority significantly higher than we do, they won't go at a faster pace, because, of course, those countries solve basically all the same problems, they all went through a covidem, they all went through an energy crisis, they all had to be more indebted. And here's a message that I hope isn't entirely negative. Yes, I have criticized it many times, that you have one of the worst inflations, one of the worst GDP growths, that you have the highest decline in real wages, energy prices I have no comment at all, and that you are failing to work with debt and budget. That's right, I stand by it, and I say you can't handle it. But on the other hand, I am not of the opinion that some škorohlíds are saying, and perhaps even your former colleagues, who, somewhere around the corner, are losing everything, that this country is bankrupt, that this country is in a catastrophic state. It's not like that. Please, let's not scare anybody. This country is not before bankruptcy. Yes, she was significantly, significantly better at that time, even at that time we were an inspiration for Europe, so we are certainly not an inspiration today, but it does not mean that there is a risk of bankruptcy. All I'm saying is that if a reasonable procedure in terms of deficit reduction is set up and it's after the 40 to 50 billion crowns, we're definitely not going to lose anything fatally. It's not gonna be easy, either, but I daresay it's doable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-19-ps2021-066-01-000-000.u7	Thank you. And now, with the right of priority, it is signed by President Schillerová. Right now... I see her here. Yeah, take it easy. So now it's logged in. In the meantime, before I give you my word, I'll read your apologies. He apologizes to Juchelka Aleš throughout the day for working reasons and Jan Richter throughout the day for health reasons. Well, that would be an apology. I would also like to say that the next priority right applied for will then be Vice-President Klára Dostálová. Please, Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-19-ps2021-066-01-000-000.u8	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, we've had such a mess here in the Chamber of Deputies. It used to be a good habit that the institutions of the state administration, the ministries that are managed by the ministers of the government who are confessing to this Chamber of Deputies, processed laws, explanatory reports and documents for their intentions with respect for reality. Every major intention must be based on an analysis of the impact of regulation, which is an important part of the quantification of budgetary impacts. The subsequent political clashes take place here in the Chamber of Deputies, among other things thanks to arguments and figures that come from this precise work of the official apparatus. However, I have reason to believe that this decade has been given a respectable use in recent months, but especially in recent days, it has been a significant waste. As president of the strongest member club and former finance minister, I feel wasted and hopeless if the law of the year itself, which is the State Budget Act, contains proven accounting tricks and errors in the range of over CZK 150 billion. What is the significance of arguing about millions or tens of millions when representatives of this government coalition vote the State Budget Act, which has about as much in common with reality as the end of the Mayan calendar with the end of the world? Unfortunately, the current Treasury's implementation of the state budget, which is likely to affect the Baťa 295 billion deficit these days, is the best, or perhaps the worst, evidence. This schlendrian has absolutely devastating effects not only on political culture but also on the rule of law, for which I am particularly sensitive as a lawyer. I'll be quite specific. We all remember the long meeting at which we dealt with the situation caused by the fact that Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura did not stubbornly account for the real and mandatory expenditure of the state associated with the extraordinary valuation of pensions in the state budget. Yes, it was much more important for this government to have a nice Baťa deficit of 295 billion in the draft budget than to be responsible for projecting at least the mandatorial spending of the state where extraordinary statutory pension valorisation belongs. This matter has ended with the Constitutional Court, and independent legal experts agree that the risk of seeking a counter-constitutional process of a government coalition is more than significant. I have no doubt that none of you can imagine planning his family's budget without counting the mortgage, rent, electricity payments, or any other of your mandatory expenses. Exactly the law of the year that determines the political constraints of this government, but we've been working here for the fifth month. The State Budget Act has other shortcomings, each one of which would probably lead to the withdrawal of the Minister of Finance from his post in earlier times. I'll remind them briefly. The budget does not count on CZK 15 billion on the above-mentioned exceptional pension valorization. The state budget takes 7.5 billion from health insurance companies to finance the public health insurance system, which the government has sent to red numbers by reducing payments for state insured persons. The budget lacks 30 billion for SFDI projects. The State Fund is therefore to issue its own bonds, which will be less advantageous than the State would borrow. The budget estimates 50 billion for the Ministry of Environment from the so-called Modernization Fund. But, as the current Minister of the Environment and the chairman of the Committee on Budgets recognizes - both members of the five-calice government - the drawdown from the Modernisation Fund is not legislatively prepared, there is no need for the European Commission, the EIB's notification. They'll never be in the budget. Last but not least, the Ministry of Finance will not collect CZK 100 billion from windfall tax and income tax, but maybe only CZK 40 billion. These are all misdemeanors, which are certainly not only against the rules of responsible and faithful budgeting, but which are a direct threat to the long-term fiscal interests of the state. Unfortunately, this manuscript, the handwriting of tricks, tricks, non-transparency, the government embodied in its supposed recovery package, which, in fact, is nothing more than a tax package. The government of Petr Fiala has repeatedly declared that the consolidation package will consist of two thirds of savings on the spending side and only one third of the increase in taxes to Czech households and companies. The information that, according to the official materials and the presentation accompanying the press conference to the presentation of the package, the real ratio is about 50-50, so we accepted with great concern. Unfortunately, on closer examination, it turned out that this ratio is probably too ambitious, because it envisages savings of CZK 54.4 billion in the category of subsidy, which none of the government officials have yet been able to specify. We learn from the Minister of Industry that, in the case of the MIT, the planned transfer of support for renewable energy sources from the state budget back to households was calculated as a subsidy saving found. We learn from the Minister of Education that in the chapter of the Ministry of Education, this savings of 2 billion will be offset by a new loan of 45 billion European financial mechanisms. On the contrary, we do not learn from the Ministry of Regional Development, where it will take the planned 2.8 billion if, without European resources, it is practically their entire annual budget of national subsidies. Also nowhere in the analytical material of the Ministry of Finance is stated, what exactly is to be composed of this declared 50 billion-dollar savings. Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura has even repeatedly refused to respond to specific questions from the media. For this reason, the shadow government of the YES movement after a week of patient waiting, when unfortunately we did not receive any answers, adopted yesterday a resolution by which we publicly called on the government to remedy this non-transparency. Because the government, the five-calice one, completely unprecedentedly despises the opposition and, in our opinion, also despises the citizens of the Czech Republic, because it is not willing to reveal such essential information regarding its key economic step, I will now read the so far unreflective challenge to the government here in the Chamber of Deputies. [[10.00 hours]] I believe that yesterday she did not merely travel to the key ministers, or they did not pay enough attention to her in the loophole of urgent work. Now, at last, they will have the opportunity to hear this challenge calmly in its entirety. And I have no doubt that the ministers in question will instruct their apparatus to correct the information deficit towards the public urgently. So the call for transparent disclosure of savings on the spending side: "The Shadow Government of the ANO movement calls on the government of the Czech Republic to publish transparently the break-up of the alleged savings of CZK 54.4 billion in the subsidy category in order to preserve the elementary credibility of government materials and key government steps. We ask that the breakdown of this savings be published in a way that allows standard public and opposition control of government actions, i.e. specification of specific grant titles according to budget chapters, specific amount of savings in the given title and information, from when the title will be shortened. Compared to what is the savings expressed? For example, the situation in 2023. Only by publishing this information without delay can the government deny that declared savings on the expenditure side of the budget are merely an attempt to conceal the fact that 80 percent of the planned savings result from increasing the tax burden on Czech households and companies. Without the immediate correction of this serious deficiency, opposition control by the Parliament of the Czech Republic, as well as independent media and professional public, is not possible and will not be possible. This challenge is a response to unprecedented non-transparency and information deficit, which is accompanied by the presentation of the austerity package of the government. We are responding to the fact that neither the Ministry of Finance's analytical material nor the response of the relevant government ministers or Prime Minister to questions of the media, for a whole week from the presentation of the package, nor the answers to these urgent and legitimate questions, nor the hint." So many unheard-out challenges of the ANO movement towards the government, which concerns irregularities in the range of CZK 54 billion. We consider it scandalous that pensioners who were defending their legal right should be brutally damaged by self-employed persons, families with children, property owners or ordinary employees, only because the Minister of Finance failed to fulfil his homework and did not introduce a single relevant budget savings. It is characteristic that it is the Minister of Finance from the ODS, who will enter history as a minister who has indebted the Czech Republic most of all ministers in history in one year. In the 12 months of 2022, debt increased by 429 billion, which is the absolute fastest pace in this country's history. A number that even surpassed the year 2020 with a closed economy and the biggest economic downturn in the country's history. And the number at the end of April of this year? The budget-responsible government has indebted us another 200 billion. So we're in total... we've got a brother of 629 billion. Every citizen, including newborns, by CZK 60,000. Although only in the first four months of this year, the Ministry of Finance selected CZK 54.6 billion more than last year thanks to inflation. The result of his management is a fall into a record April deficit. And we're not dealing with either a lockdown or a pandemic fall in the economy. Then why? Of course, because the state cash register is fully catching up on the aforementioned accounting tricks, which have already been confirmed by a number of independent economists. In addition, European money is still being used up in a trivial way, where only 27 per cent is spent at the end of April. Although the April standard under our government, when I was Minister of Finance, was between 35 and 40 percent. So we're probably going to repeat last year's scenario, when 54 billion crowns were left short; 54 billion crowns that could have been part of our state budget. And speaking of European funds, do you remember the budget surplus 2016 when Andrej Babiš was Minister of Finance, amounting to CZK 61.8 billion? Many analysts were then offended by the fact that the EU's funding for the programming period for the years 2007 to 2013 was the reason. That's a well-known rule of n+3. We now have the year 2023, i.e. the third year from the end of the programme period 2014 to 2020 - and the result? Last year's drawing of EU funds disaster! Undrawn by the said 54 billion crowns. This year's misery continues. While the five-Stanjura are Síkela (?) We miss tens of billions of European money every year from the end of the programming period and from the new one, where billions of crowns are allocated to the Czech Republic thanks to our last government. These are the real reasons why you intend to raise taxes. This is not a small increase in taxes, it is a significant increase in the tax burden, and this is also an extremely inappropriate time. Maybe I don't have to remind you that we only have 25 percent inflation in food. That people who drown electricity pay more than twice as much each month from year to year. A year ago 5,000 crowns a month, today 12,000 crowns a month. That we are in a technical recession and your current actions will decide whether or not the Czech Republic will repeat the non-Time-Calusian scenario of unnecessary asphyxiation of the national economy. Given that you have not yet submitted anything to the House in relation to the announced package, but also to the commentary procedure, I believe that there is hope at least a part of the five-calice Members to convince them to change their form in the tax field. Let me give you a specific case of the model family. A family of four, non-smokers, abstinence. Husband craftsman in flat-rate tax regime, wife accountant with average salary. Two preschool children, apartment 3+kk Praha 3. Two cars. Husband increased social security contributions minus CZK 23,000. Increase in real estate tax minus CZK 3,000 a year. A higher road sign minus 800 crowns. Higher VAT on water, heat, public transport, crafts, holiday accommodation, fitness and so on minus CZK 3,000. A total higher tax burden on the husband... a higher tax burden on the husband of CZK 29,800. [[10.10 hours]] Wife: sickness insurance minus CZK 3,000, reduction of FKSP by 50 % minus CZK 4 000, end of kindergarten fee minus CZK 34,600, more expensive highway stamp minus CZK 800, higher VAT on heat, water, public transport, cosmetics, hairdresser, swimming pool, sauna and so on minus CZK 3,000, cancellation of employee benefits minus CZK 10,000. A total of 55 400 crowns. Children: reduction of the contribution to building savings twice CZK 1,000 minus CZK 2,000. Total model Czech family in one year minus 87 200 crowns. This is a very specific impact on one particular family. It is not difficult to imagine the impact it will have on our economy if you take tens of thousands of similar households in our country. The Czech economy is in recession, and the five-calice is clearly going to repeat Nečasův and Kalouskův's mistake and put us through misery - even more misery - and, ultimately, even more debt. But we are here to remind you that the path to balanced budgets certainly does not lead anywhere in the world through the asphyxiation of the economy. The YES movement has repeatedly proven that the Czech Republic can have balanced and surplus budgets without tax devastation of our country's economy. We have done this with the exception of two years, which has been marked by the total covido closure of the economy. And while the current government would like to erase this from people's minds, I repeat once again that the state budget for the government of the ANO movement between 2016 and 2019 was essentially balanced every year or in surplus. The recipe for the Czech Republic is a gradual consolidation plan, the fight against tax evasion and fraud, where the current government has lost tens of billions of crowns by the reprehensible abolition of the EET, the fight against corruption. The recipe is the pro-growth investment and the efficient use of European money. It is appropriate to abolish the unnecessary ministries of the invisible and doing nothing that no one even knows, to stop creating new sections at ministries, new news outlets, new political deputy posts and to start saving again for the operation of the state. The YES movement knows how to do this, because every year we were able to save at least 5% on the operation of the state, even at the time of the covid. We are not going to accept that, after eight years of government of the YES movement, when we were not only fiscally responsible but also prosperous countries of prosperous people, a government has come to make us the only country in the EU from year to year, which in terms of GDP deepens its debt, which chokes its economy, thereby increasing the deficit, debt and international position of the Czech Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, the announced package on which officials are currently working is full of harmful nonsense and contradictory measures. I call on you not to present it at all in the interests of the future of our country to the House, or to reduce it substantially and limit it to measures on which there is agreement with the opposition. A separate chapter is the VAT changes. Here the state gets rid - beware - of CZK 4.1 billion per year without any positive effect on the state budget. While a flat-rate reduction of VAT on food from 15 to 12 percent will only lead to an increase in chain margins and citizens will not feel any discount, increasing VAT on drugs, water and sewerage, heat and a number of other items will be felt by everyone. Literally destroying these changes will be for restaurants and pubs, especially in the countryside, for which sales of brewed beer are the dominant source of turnover. I would remind you that there will be an increase in VAT from 10 to 21 percent and, for soft drinks, from 15 to 21 percent. The changes will be extremely painful for families with children who will be affected by the cancellation of the kindergarten fee, the reduction of the discount on the other spouse, the end of the discount for an extra student, the increase of VAT on services or repairs, the operation of households, public transport, but also a significant increase in the price of the motorway stamp from CZK 1,500 to CZK 2,300. For example, she and the baby water are supposed to be at 21 percent VAT. The kindergarten was introduced as a useful tool for family and labour market policies. In addition to encouraging parents to get back to work early and then paying logically higher taxes, insurance premiums, this discount generates savings on social benefits. Another contribution has been shown to support the emergence of new kindergartens and, in the long run, to promote the birth rate and upbringing of children who will keep our ageing population on their feet. Its abolition does not give logic or budget, because the actual fiscal influence of a kindergarten can not be read only from the rows of tax returns. The positive impact of its abolition on public budgets after deduction of all positive effects on the labour market and the social system will be around 100 million per year. This is the amount that the Ministry of Finance would collect in two to three days of EET operation. Cancellation of the student discount - is the government serious? Do you really want to send a signal to the students, as you like to say, that if they make 17,000 in their studies, they're either tax frauds or sloppy, as Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura said in public space? It's just the opposite. And I still can't believe I have to explain this to the government that has the head of the professor and the former rector of my alma mater. In the Czech Republic, we have thousands of students who cannot be financially supported by their family. Often they are students from economically weaker families or, for example, students who no longer have parents. They're not sloppy. They're just working on their future, and they're still studying while they're working. A sad story is also a reduction in valorisation for existing pensioners, which is the only tangible step of government in the area of announced pension changes so far. We have not yet received the promised pension reforms at all. What Minister Jurečka presented has nothing to do with her. It's just a modification of some parameters that definitely don't solve the whole system. Wanting to improve public finances through pensions is simply stupid. The weakening of the first pillar will only lead to an increase in the number of pensioners below the poverty line. Moreover, future pensioners will be reduced due to a change in the calculation of pensions. On top of that, the government will send thousands of seniors to the labor authorities to increase housing and real estate taxes. [[10.20 hours]] An increase in corporate tax by 2 percentage points will, in turn, set a blow to the competitiveness of the Czech economy for foreign investors. It is an extraordinary mistake that the package has not been discussed with the social partners or with the opposition. His chances of surviving this government's term of office are so significantly reduced. It is a failed package that may have a short-term effect, but in the medium term, it means nothing but trouble for the economy. GDP growth will fall, poverty and pressure will grow on the social system. Take these your intentions back while there is still time. We will be pleased if you cooperate with us on an appropriate and appropriate form of budgetary consolidation. Please do not say that the YES movement has no own proposals. The YES movement has an exact idea of how to get public finances in shape without destroying the economy. And since you often repeat the fact that you do not know our proposals, I feel it is imperative to repeat them to you. The YES movement proposes to follow a gradual budget consolidation plan presented by the Babišův Government in 2021, which works with a reduction of the structural deficit by half a percentage point per year. The main pillars include the volume of reduction on the expenditure side mainly through digitisation, merging, cancellation of agendas, reduction of operational expenditure of chapters of between 5 and 10 %, and at least three unnecessary ministries and effective drawdown of 962 billion from the programme period 2021 to 2027. Follow up on a successful fight against tax evasion instead of raising taxes. A proven philosophy of the YES movement - to collect more taxes without having to raise their rates. Continue implementation of the action plan to control transfer prices of multinational corporations, active analysis of data from control reports, extension of the competence of the Customs Administration in the area of tax evasion detection, setting up fair rules for the shared economy and launching a discussion across the political spectrum on a permanent return to sales record. Predictable increases in certain excise duties, especially on tobacco products, hard alcohol, as well as the enforcement of the taxation of multinational companies at European level. In the case of excise duties, we agree with your intentions, but we do not understand the delay when vice taxes could have been increased at least since January. We also support the increase in gambling tax, which was one of the pillars of the policies of the governments of the YES movement. We demand a consistent revision of tax exemptions, which, in addition to positive fiscal impacts, will reduce the administrative complexity of the tax system, but not the social exceptions, but the exceptions imposed by powerful economic players. I will recall lower taxation of investment funds or tax exemptions for donations to political parties and movements. We want to implement countercyclical economic policy, pro-growth investment in full use of the National Recovery Plan, combined with low taxes and raising living standards to achieve stable GDP growth and dynamically rising public budget revenues. The public sector is not outside the economy, the public sector is an integral part of it. Public budgets affect the economy and are influenced by it. The first line of defense against recession is the investment activity of the state. Government interest should shift from deficit to economic growth, i.e. from accounting approach to economic approach. GDP growth is a legitimate and functional tool for budgetary consolidation. We want to motivate the authorities to invest some of the 400 billion crowns they have in their accounts. The State should prepare financial instruments and any preferential loans. Here, use our prepared National Development Bank and secure an administration site. The money invested by self-government will return to the state's GDP growth and tax revenues. Ladies and gentlemen, the main thing I lack in the work of this government's economic ministers is elementary honesty. If there are crooked numbers at the beginning of your work, the final result can hardly be satisfactory. Realize the budget for this year! Realize the savings you're planning on spending on the expense side! Do not forget to support economic growth as a legitimate instrument of economic consolidation. Take back your plan to increase the tax burden by 70 billion crowns while there is still time. Then come to the Chamber of Deputies with high-quality legislation and I can tell you that you will be able to count on our support. But not now! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-19-ps2021-066-01-000-000.u9	Thank you, Madam President. Now Vice-President Klára Dostálová will speak with priority, and then President Jakob is signed up. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-19-ps2021-066-01-000-000.u10	Thank you so much for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I must say that we have a point on the agenda today, which we can also discuss in a proper meeting, because what I think is really hot for the Czech Republic, and today I will raise this point for the first time and I would like you to pay attention to it, it is the drawing of European funds that really have a big impact on the budget. And I will be demonstrating this to you immediately with specific figures, and I would like to say the same, and I would like to thank all my colleagues from the subcommittee on the European Funds, where we clearly agreed yesterday on a resolution which we also appeal to the Government. To put you on the subject, because I understand that this is a very difficult material, I will try to speak Czech at the most, not to use the Euro-Brussels abbreviations to understand. We have two programming periods here this year. One programming period, which is from 2014 to 2020, and at the same time we started the programming period, which runs from 2021 and runs until 2027. The 2014 to 2020 programming period was accompanied by a really turbulent time, whether it was, of course, lockdowns, covido measures, but of course, huge energy crises were accompanied by it in the finals. While the European Commission has tried to respond to this, that is to say, programmes that actually supported the recovery of the economy after the covid. I'm sure you'll all remember the so-called REACT-EU, where we tried to help health care, hygiene and so on. Nemale also increased European funds for the Czech Republic. At the same time, the European Commission also responded to the situation surrounding the war in Ukraine and prepared programmes, the so-called FAST-CARE, where it tried to help beneficiaries in some way to improve the conditions for drawing, aware that the beneficiaries were in a very difficult situation. Unfortunately, the Czech Government failed, but this is not only a complaint against the Czech Government, but unfortunately it has not succeeded other countries, although they have appealed to the European Commission to try to agree the so-called N+4 rule for the last year as a result of what happened during the 2014 to 2020 programming period. This means drawing money from 2020 until the end of 2024. And now we're in a situation where this has failed, and all beneficiaries have to spend their money by the end of 2023, when it's actually a lockdown period. [[10.30 hours]] Europe's rules are very complex in all of this, so it is not possible to reallocate money between operational programmes from 2020 onwards, but to move the money within priority axes within only one operational programme. As a result, a lot of municipalities - and now I'm really talking to all the mayors, you're going to get in big trouble. We were just discussing it on the subcommittee yesterday, because you're actually going to be able to choose between a few options. If you miss your project schedule even as a result of the fact that I have, of course, signals from the mayors that, unfortunately, their suppliers are pulling away from the buildings, because it is simply in the huge inflation with the cost of construction work and so on at the competitive prices they simply cannot cope with, so they withdraw from the projects, but the beneficiary gets into an unsolvable situation. Because, for example, if I take the reconstruction of hospitals and so on, which we have made possible within the framework of the REACT-EU, this measure does not continue in the new programming period 2021 to 2027, so the beneficiaries will have nothing but to draw what they can up to the end of 2023, but then to finance it from their own resources. And unfortunately, the government has not prepared an alternative for these beneficiaries. It is necessary to reach an agreement with the National Development Bank, with the EIB, simply with someone on some more favourable terms for loans, because if the beneficiaries, who may be building hospitals for half a billion and so on, get into a situation that they will have to take credit on the commercial market, then of course it will be very expensive. The Ministry of Regional Development has in its sense the so-called National Coordination Authority, an authority that is supposed to essentially map the drawdown of all operational programmes of the Czech Republic, and we have seven of them, through the environment, industry, education, Integrated regional operational programme, technical assistance, agriculture. Really, these programs are a whole range. And it is the National Coordination Authority that is supposed to map this and alert the government to the risks. Here I have to say that the National Coordination Authority is actually doing its part, and it is doing its part well. He submitted to the government material called risk analysis and generated three of the most problematic operational programmes based on this risk analysis. And I really have to say that I am very sorry because, for example, the Operational Programme Environment, when Minister Richard Brabec was there, was one of the best pumping programs, and today he is getting that red light, which must be quite a devastating report for the Minister, the former Minister, because he has never really had such big problems with it. The second programme, which has such big problems, is the Operational Programme Enterprise and Innovation for Competitiveness and the third programme, and here I will squeeze the tears myself, is the Integrated Regional Operational Programme under the Ministry for Regional Development. The National Coordination Authority has established certain 24 measures, but those measures are precisely in that the beneficiary must actually choose under which conditions the projects will be completed or withdrawn from them. This risk analysis actually highlighted 323 risk projects in the total amount of less than CZK 21 billion. This is money that is really in great danger of pumping itself, because even those projects have problems with criminal proceedings, administrative regulations or just completing according to the original timetable. We asked about the subcommittee yesterday, too, and I really must say that it is a great disappointment to me that the so-called Ministerial Council for the drawing of European funds is not sitting, because of course there is also a Rules of Procedure, which governs this M Council - the so-called M Council - the Minister for Local Development. And unfortunately, ministers don't sit when this board is convened, so it's at the level of the deputy. But here it really is at the highest highest debate on how to save money for the Czech Republic. It is logical to ask that when the amount of money is at risk, what individual ministries will do with it, because we must realise that when the state budget situation is in the situation it is in, the drawing of European funds can mean a huge contribution to the state budget, because it is a pity that the Czech Republic should lose such large money. But this period - now I just want your attention - when we are in May 2023 and the whole thing ends in December 2023, we all know how to count, so you can figure out how many months we have left to pump about 100 billion, and of that about 21 billion are the projects at risk. We don't see any special calls being made on so-called fast-track projects, because it's clear that someone is starting an investment project today, that it's absolutely unrealistic. And in all this, I must say, it is a good thing that Schillerová and I had the courage to recommence the Integrated Regional Operational Programme, for example, in the field of education, because the fall would otherwise have been far more drastic. And here I would also like to challenge - we all see the problems within the new programming period with a call for elementary schools that basically a lot of projects have been prepared, but they have not been allocated. And you need to tell the minister, don't be afraid of the overtling. Here you can see at the end that there will still be a problem with the pumping, and on the other hand, you can make a pillow like that right at the beginning. However, the Ministry of Regional Development and its national coordination body themselves define that the real undersupply can indeed be 5 billion. But I say again, there are those risky projects, 323 risky projects that can also be directed towards the under-up, and then it would be much more dramatic. And to top it all - why I'm saying this here today, I'm going to learn at the press conference that the Minister wants to save money and that, of course, he wants to go into the subsidies. I understand he meant national funding here, but he wants to save personnel money. And I'm warning everyone that the numbers that are actually here to draw mean a huge burden on personnel capacity. These people are just one, they're not inflatable, and they basically have to domplement, or they have to finish this programming period. And now I'm going to give you an example of one particular resort, which is, for example, the Ministry of Regional Development and its Integrated Regional Operational Programme. I downloaded the data by the end of March, which means that they would have to complete the Integrated Regional Operational Programme, they would have to pay 7 billion crowns a month - a month! - to make it to the end of the season. And then I downloaded the data for April, at the end of April, to see what the monthly progress here is, if they really can handle the $7 billion. And how much would you say the Ministry of Regional Development drew in one month? 1.6 billion, which means 5 billion a month jumps into those other periods of undrawn, which means that the real lack of consumption here really threatens. So we need to think about these things. It is really big money and it will not help us here any activist reduction of personnel capacity precisely in the context of the drawing up of European funds, because I do not understand the policy if we save two or three people within the framework of the implementation of European funds in individual resorts, compared to a possible loss for the Czech Republic of tens of billions of crowns. If you look at the numbers of the draw as such, of course we must focus on the most risky projects. And I have to say that the pumping is really where it's already over 85 or almost 90 percent, so I wouldn't worry about it, even if there's a slight loss, of course. But if you look at the three problem programs, the environment is essentially pumping, or it has about 81 percent in payment applications. On the other hand, the Integrated Regional Operational Programme is the worst of all. It's at 76.5%. [[10.40 hours]] I'm just pointing it out again, we're at the end of the season, we just don't have anywhere else to go, so it's either gonna be okay or it's not gonna work. And that's why it's startling for me that we don't even of course have the information on how, for example, so-called extraordinary certifications are set up. Because the point is, of course, the governing body has to appeal to the beneficiaries to issue invoices. Recipients, as I said before, are in big trouble. The managing authority processes this into so-called summary payment applications and sends it to the Ministry of Finance for certification. And the difference in the certification is really big. If we look at how much has been paid to the beneficiaries, and now I'm going to take the current data, as opposed to how much has been certified, we're there a month in a slump of approximately 30 billion crowns. But 30 billion crowns is a huge portion, and in the meantime, we are looking for savings, especially in the pockets of our fellow citizens, instead of thinking about ourselves and starting some real drawing of the European funds and trying to get as much as possible. So now I've only mentioned one programming period and only one problem. So the resolution of the subcommittee was that we appeal to the government as a subcommittee. And I would like the entire Chamber of Deputies to join it. It appeals to the Government not to put the consolidation package in jeopardy and, of course, to ensure sufficient administrative capacity. Because the numbers I told you about the 7 billion are related to one operational program. Of course, that's what they're gonna do with all the operating programs in that horrible meeting that's following them now. This means what has hands and legs, it will have to charge to make it really happen for the Czech Republic. So in implementing, or drawing on, the European funds to intervene with some personnel cuts, we will really condemn the Czech Republic to the fact that it will not in any way be reached. Well, as I was saying at the beginning, we've got a programming period going on here. That means, in 2021, we started the programming period by the end of 2027. You don't even want to see the numbers pumping in there. That means we're rolling it in front of each other again. This means that when a trillion crowns were negotiated, and I say it in Czech, 1000 billion, because of course in English a trillion is 1 billion, so that someone does not confuse it, 1000 billion. And we're pumping to date, or at the end of April, really 1.4 percent. One whole four tenths of a percent of one trillion crowns. So you can imagine -- and that period ends in 2027, we're in 2023 -- what kind of portion goes to those individual operating programs. I understand that this is a very difficult subject. On the other hand, we are elected representatives here. And how are we gonna explain to these people that if we got 85 from a hundred crown, we couldn't exhaust it? And then we're stuck here somewhere around some savings that don't even give logic how many times. As far as Europe is concerned, I'm sure I'll come to you here very often. As the House, we should monitor these data very intensively so that we really appeal as the House, as essentially the body that should, in its own way, supervise the government's activities, so that even colleagues from the government can confess to the Chamber of Deputies, as the drawdown continues. Well, it wouldn't be me to open up on this occasion, except for this delicate point that I chose as point number one, so I wouldn't open up the housing issue. I'm really sorry, colleagues, but we're not able to get out of one crisis, and we've stepped straight into the housing crisis. And basically, citizens quite rightly criticize the fact that they see no effort. It's just nothing happens in the area of living to help them. And it's really smiling when the finance minister says that the MMR will cut 2.8 billion of national subsidies. So I would just like to point out that the budget of the MMR without European funds is three whole zero-something-billion. Does that mean we're cutting off the MMR? That was like a signal that we're gonna cancel one reszrt? Because if the 2.8 billion, of course, are subsidies for everything, for the reconstruction of local roads, public buildings, but also housing. And that housing contains nursing homes for housing, community housing for seniors, technical infrastructure for investing land for housing, support for rental housing. It's just that the housing that MMR supports is a whole range. And if the Minister of Finance MMR cuts that amount, then let him give a direct order, whether all colleagues from the MMR go home or at least implement the European funds. I'm just pointing out that colleagues can't just turn on the implementation of European funds so quickly, because it's really a little bit different. You often blame us for not being able to come up with concrete solutions as opposition. So I will allow you to imagine concrete proposals for solutions in the area of housing policy. And I would very much like for us to actually start talking about at least some of them so that we can finally help young people or in some way disadvantaged groups of the population, the elderly. We, of course, cannot forget in this context the community-friendly professions that are crucial to the state. We all seem to see a certain need for doctors, especially in remote regions. But, of course, municipalities expect certain tools from the state to attract some of the community-friendly professions through housing. For example, they are workers of the integrated rescue system, teachers, doctors, nurses, but even in the area of Prague or large cities they are certainly top civil servants, especially in the field of digitalisation and IT, which we would also like to support very much. Well, in the context of what has already been said by my colleague here today, we must not forget the students either. I suppose we're all reading newspapers all the time, and we're just seeing the cost of college, the cost of basically raising students' housing as such. We're actually gonna send them a signal that if they make money, we're gonna take away more benefits. So, really, the attack on the students is from the left, from the right, from the bottom, from the top, and I'm very sorry. Our plan, in fact, is aimed at increasing support for cooperative housing as a priority solution to the problem of housing shortages and high prices in the Czech Republic. We want to enable cooperative housing companies to build and manage flats without unnecessary regulatory and administrative barriers. Furthermore, we plan to create a so-called state developer - now it's not a dirty word, really a developer is not a dirty word - which will only work with land and brownfields owned by the state. In fact, there are thousands of land for construction owned by the State. And now that we're talking about one breath of mail jamming, I'm wondering if anyone had any ambition in those broken mail houses to deal with the idea of housing there. Or are they just lucrative buildings that serve to sell here instead of dealing with the problems that bother our citizens? The state must be able to start working. We have an office of state, an office of state representation in property matters, which records such land and buildings and should be able to communicate with individual municipalities. And, of course, it can exchange the land under certain conditions not only with the public sector, I mean municipalities and regions, but why not even with the private sector? Why not use the know-how of developers on the land of the state to make the housing for Czech citizens really cheaper? We propose the possibility of building state flats in cooperation on projects of public-private, so-called PPP projects in the area of rental housing, but also privatisation of these land.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-19-ps2021-066-01-000-000.u11	Madam, I'm sorry, I will just say, for the record, that we are discussing a government bill on association in political parties and in political...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-19-ps2021-066-01-000-000.u12	Not yet, Mr President. I have priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-19-ps2021-066-01-000-000.u13	Anyway, the debate should be directed at one point in this agenda. I recognise that you have priority rights, but within the framework of, say, the spirit of the Rules of Procedure, it would be appropriate to discuss the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-19-ps2021-066-01-000-000.u14	Well, if you don't mind, I'll continue. To support the construction of state flats with the possibility of purchase for tenants, we propose providing a favourable loan with minimum interest. This would support families and allow them to reduce the amount of payments. The next step is to support projects in the area of rental housing, i.e. when we connect with developers and use land and brownfields owned by the state for the construction of rental housing. We will involve the State Investment Support Fund, local authorities and business entities. The form of public-private partnerships in the accessible housing segment is a very good solution abroad. They have been using it successfully for years, for example, in Ireland or the United Kingdom. This is precisely the solution that stimulates supply. The state does not need to generate profit, it has the necessary land, it has the private sector and the private sector has the necessary know-how. And it is on the basis of some model private-public partnership projects that we want some methodological recommendations to be made, including model contracts and model documents that could serve municipalities. After all, the State does not have such suitable land, such land is also available to municipalities. Our aim is, among other things, to show that it is possible in this way or in this way to support the construction and to initiate the involvement of the financial resources of the municipalities, because municipalities and regions have CZK 400 billion in their accounts, and yet we are all aware that, at double-digit inflation, these resources are constantly losing their value, so of course, it would be far more efficient for municipalities to invest this money. Another measure is the introduction of so-called multigenerational mortgages. If we extend the maturity - and I hope we all realize that the mortgages, of course a lot of young families this year, end these fixations next year, they're just going to increase their housing costs multiple times. It's just not change, it's really big money. And I'm missing this initiative from the state that would have arranged with the banks that in some ways the state would have guaranteed the increase in mortgage payments for up to 40 years. That's why I call it multigenerational mortgages, because, of course, that's when your housing is going to get cheaper. I have already given this example: if we have an apartment in Prague 2+kk, the payment would basically fall from some CZK 15-16,000 to CZK 8-9,000. This is, of course, quite a large portion of what, of course, people have to do today with housing costs. Our ambition is clear: we are trying to increase the availability of housing for all, not only for young people, but also for singles, seniors. But here in this area, the state really needs to find a way in cooperation with the municipalities, with the regions, to make the housing cheaper. And if it's cooperative housing, for example, there's gonna be a community in that cooperative that puts land in that joint venture, well, you're just gonna cut the housing down on those guys in the finals. And the question is whether the municipality will then keep it in the rental housing for the future, or, indeed, after some time in the cooperative housing framework, it will allow the purchase, where it would, of course, assess its land. As far as senior housing is concerned, the situation here is really at the very limit of possible, because the seniors are basically looking for any alternatives. And once again, we have to realize that by imposing a property tax essentially on ownership housing, so you have forgotten that just all post-communist countries, all of them, are having huge problems with this, because the share between property housing and rental housing is 80: 20. This means that when you raise the property tax, you touch a large part of the population, the Czech population, because in our country it has always been so that we drive - literally I have to say - behind the property housing, and now those people are going to be beaten for it. A lot of seniors, and they used to do that, you just can't blame anyone, so multigenerational houses were built. Everyone in the country is aware of that. Grandma herself, sometimes still with her partner, live in huge houses that are terribly energy-intensive. It's just that energy savings weren't being dealt with then and so on. They don't have what it takes to fund green savings, heat them up and so on. Those seniors are happy to survive from month to month. And that's why I say let's help these people divide those multigenerational houses into separate housing units. These are not the millions that are needed for this. It's really about the two families having their own entrance and each having their own social facilities. That means, we could actually help people here with relatively little money to expand their housing supply in the countryside. We also support the construction of student dorms. That's what we need to focus on. We, on the one hand, say hooray, all of you to rent a place, if you can't afford it, sell it, rent it. What rent, please, are these people supposed to go to? There's no rent. And if you look at big student cities like Prague, Brno, Olomouc, Plzeň, those people, the students, because they can't even do the dorm anymore, they look for a rental housing market, because they just get sucked up in three or four to tighten it up. So, on the other hand, we should go against the fact that we will try, for example, to warm up student dorms, to reduce their costs with the dorm as a whole. We all know that rents of 15, 20, 30 percent are increasing on those dorms today, and that students basically pay about 7,000 per person on the dorms. And it's very, very challenging. It is also necessary to discuss, in the context of this, the possibility of increasing investment in transport infrastructure in such a way as to link the requested sites between us. And to avoid being just critical, I appreciate the fact that VAT on construction works has reached 12 per cent in connection with housing. I could imagine 10 percent to really mobilize the building boom, including shortening the depreciation period, to get more construction. We took that first step. I hope that the new building law will lead to a faster authorisation, although we must all be aware that we have extended the period of application of the new construction law until July 2024. That means, before it all forms and starts, it basically doesn't really start to apply until 2025. At the same time, when we talk about housing as such, it is very important to combat speculation with flats on Airbnb digital platforms. We actually have a change in the Trade Law here in the House. Indeed, these things need to be discussed and allowed for municipalities to have the right to regulate this on their territory, because all municipalities, especially in large lucrative cities, which are also interesting from the point of view of tourism, are, of course, facing this very much. When we talk about the fact that the Czech National Bank - indeed, interest rates went up a little bit again, even though, of course, the Czech National Bank is trying to adjust a little bit of the conditions for borrowing mortgages so that young people do not have to compose 20 percent, because today you are essentially unable to get under 8 million in Prague and young people do not have the million - so they are trying to adjust this. On the other hand, the state can help. The Ministry of Regional Development has a subsidy programme in the drawer to support interest. We do not need to make big money, we need to support investment, but we may need to support interest above 5%, which, of course, could help significantly in these matters. I'm getting into housing policy and, of course, in the context of the tax changes that are here. I have already mentioned that property tax will significantly affect the segment, but not only property housing. Every owner who pays this increased property tax - and we're actually talking about Prague's apartment, for example, up to 7,000 a year - so this price is reflected in the rent. So it's logical that even in the rental housing, you'll be able to raise the rent for this money as well. [[11.00 hours]] I'm not gonna grovel around here anymore. to building savings, because that's what we could really be debating all the time. On the other hand, I think that building savings should be a certain incentive for people to save, even grandmothers, grandfathers, when their granddaughters are born, grandsons, so that they can save for their future housing, or to allow a productive part of the population to, on the contrary, warm their parents' houses to save their costs. So let's think about changing parameters rather than some radical cut. I have already talked about students here, but let me open one more topic that I think is very desirable from the point of view of the Czech Republic, and lately it is such a Popelka, basically it is not mentioned at all. It's a tourism issue. I'm still going to stick to the accommodation, of course, because if we increase the accommodation services from 10 to 21 percent, then, of course, it will have an impact on the real families again. I'm not just talking about foreign tourism, I'm talking about our domestic tourism. Just the costs that the family - and it was very well specified here by colleague Alena Schillerová, what impact it will have on the household, and it has not yet had those things there, that just everyone working is entitled to rest and that perhaps he would like to visit some of the beautiful corners of the Czech Republic, but unfortunately here too will be hugely expensive accommodation services from 10 to 21 percent. It's not a change, it's money that everyone really feels in their wallets. On the contrary, we should try, because tourism has always reached less than 3% of GDP, but we have kind of forgotten about it in the context of all this, but we should try to attract foreign tourists to visit the Czech Republic. But I don't see any campaigns to promote tourism anywhere. It is also necessary to realise that in a way a certain bonita clientele, especially from Russia, will not continue to travel and that this market needs to be replaced by other tourists. But, of course, we have to make it possible to promote tourism abroad if new lines are opened and so on. Ladies and gentlemen, I've actually tried to mention those sore spots. And just to calm the Vice-President, I was just trying to point out here at the beginning that instead of dealing with things that are burning, problematic - and really again here I appeal to the drawing of European funds in the context of not very good state budget physicists, so that we can say these things to each other. The item that we have on the agenda today, we can discuss within a proper meeting, the item is already under discussion, it has been discussed, but we are here to convene an extraordinary meeting on things that we can discuss at other times, and the most pressing things that threaten tens of billions of crowns from European funds, so we are absolutely not dealing with. Let us please think, let us try not to play the opposition and coalition and try to work for the well-being of Czech citizens and for the state budget to be in good shape again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-19-ps2021-066-01-000-000.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good morning. I'll read the apologies that have arrived. Today, from 12 o'clock on health grounds, Mr Jan Lacina apologizes, and for the whole day of the sitting, Mr Hubert Lang apologizes. The President Jan Jakob is next with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-19-ps2021-066-01-000-000.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now discussing an extraordinary meeting that has one point, and that is the law on association in political parties. And instead, thanks to my three previous speakers here, we watched, dare I say, the not-so-successful presentation of the YES movement, which, by the way, lasted longer than the government press conference on the recovery package, not counting on the journalists' questions. I am fascinated by this way of action. In addition to the obvious by-product obstruction, the ANO movement is telling us that they know how to do it. Yes, we've seen in the past that you know how to do it. Your budgetary ruin policy, we have to deal with that here for you. For you, when my colleague Schillerová was the Minister of Finance, there were absolutely record state budget deficits. Yes, I admit, there was a covid here, but even the NKÚ says that the cost of the covid was just a fraction of the budget deficit. I have to respond to some of the things that have been said here. Like the fact that our government owed the country most in 2022. Well, what budget was that for 2022? That was your budget. We only found 70 billion savings in it. [[Laughs of Members YES.]] So you're complaining about your budget that you've been putting in here before. If we hadn't found the savings, the debt would have been even bigger. There were examples here with an average family. I'm already on Tuesday, when the unions counted it the same way, I admit their calculations were even less well-founded, so I recounted it to them, and the impacts are really coming out differently. When my colleague Schillerová said that, I didn't have time to mark it, but if she gives it to me, I'd be happy to count it for her. Next, it was said that the economy was in recession. I ask my colleague Schillerová, through Mr President, to verify the facts. We are generally blamed for the approach to inflation here. But where was inflation? That was your budget-destruct policy that you were doing here. That's where the current inflation is. [[Noise in the hall.]] On Tuesday, you were blaming us, and then you guys were all over the network, like we're gonna cost you oil. No, we just want this temporary measure at a time when oil is the cheapest thing in years, when it was, so the temporary measure cancels because it really doesn't make sense. And I understand that the pumps are owned by your Prime Minister, where the oil is super, super expensive. We have heard a long lecture from my colleague Dostálová on housing, about tourism, how these areas are in very poor condition. [[The noise in the room is escalating.]] I will not comment on this more than that the Ministry of MMR, under which these agendas belong, had the ANO movement eight years in gesture. Well, that shows the state of the resort we took over. Perhaps the last thing I was particularly interested in was those plans of the YES movement or colleague Schillerová with a clear idea of how to proceed in this situation, how to encourage our economy. When I heard that, I felt that my colleague Schillerová had invented some kind of economic perpetuum mobile. [[Member Schiller from the post: That was invented by the Minister.]] No, you, Mrs Schillerová, through Mr President. The expenses may grow, we will give you more, spending will grow at an uncontrollable rate, taxes will certainly not increase, they will decrease, but the yield will be significantly higher. [[11.10 hours]] Yes, I was a little freaked out when you mentioned the things that you didn't really succeed in, and I'm a little scared - and I hope we're never going back to this country - a system like EET, like kneeling in a check report or anything like that. I hope not. But it sounded like an economic perpetuum mobile. It would probably be at the Nobelův Prize for Economics, except that every first-year economics student knows it can't work that way. I'm begging you, let's stop promoting one movement, your thoughts, we could evaluate your actions here in the past. Let us return to the agenda of this meeting, that is to say, the Act on Association in Political Parties, to discuss and vote amendments that - yes - affect the conflict of interests of your President, and that is why you are building up here in this way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-19-ps2021-066-01-000-000.u17	Thank you. With priority rights, President Alena Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-19-ps2021-066-01-000-000.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Well, Mr President Jakob, through the Vice-President, I suggest you take a stew of my speech, a repetition of the Mother of Wisdom, where you can study it properly, or a tape of my Tuesday speech, or a press conference of our shadow government, or look into the media, there you have it in detail. So I'm not going to lead the argument here with you through the Vice-President right now, because obviously you're those things, I guess they were too quick to talk to you. So we're not going to talk about this right now. Let me just remind you that you have 629 billion nominally and an extra 534 billion on income versus 23.21. [[2023 versus 2021?]] It's just, those are two numbers that you said very vaguely. Otherwise, I will not really lead the argument with you now through the Vice-President. You're obviously watching our social networks when you used my current video Perpetuum mobile, thank you very much for watching them. They're very educational, so I'm sure they'll be good for a certain worldview of yours. And, yes, perpetuum mobile was invented by your finance minister when he said that fuel was too cheap, which is why we have to tax them more. I was just quoting his statement at a time when there was an increase in excise duty on diesel this week. And what were you discussing this week? Increasing excise taxes on diesel, a state enterprise law where we didn't even have an interior minister, which is why we could hardly agree to approval in the 90's, the Czech Television Act, which has been an absolute priority for you in the long run, and today the Act, which has been passed by the Pirate - or the Act is harmless, Mr. Interior Minister, the YES movement has no problem with it. We have a problem with the unconstitutional label, which is the result of the party's hatred of the Pirate Party against our chairman. We have a problem with that. And that's what we're gonna fight for, even if we end up in the Constitutional Court. Those are your priorities! [[In an elevated voice.]] These are your priorities at a time when we have the third highest inflation in the European Union, at a time when we are growing in debt, at a time when you are unable to explain your consolidation or tax package, at a time when we are growing extremely food and so on, I can continue, so you have as a priority the law - or possibly an adhesive that is directed against the President of the ANO movement. Because there's nothing else that's holding you back. There's nothing holding you, your five-calice, but the anti-grandmother. That's why you, all parties, here in this hateful speech by the Pirate Party, must retreat to keep your very shaky five-calice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-19-ps2021-066-01-000-000.u19	Thank you. I'm asking, for the record, is anyone else applying with priority rights? If no one reports, then we will vote on the whole proposal for the 66th session of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. [[Knocking cards in the desks.]] I'm receiving and registering an application for check-out. I'll do it. I'll check you all out. I'm gonna ask you to sign up with your cards. I'll wait for the number of people present in the room to settle. I would remind you that we will be voting on the whole proposal for the 66th meeting as submitted in writing. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion for this agenda? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 2, 128 Members and Members registered, for 72, against 49. I'm stating that the agenda for the meeting has been approved. And now we're going to go to one point on the show, and that's
