ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-001-113.u1	113. The Government's Bill repealing Law No 307/2000 Coll., on agricultural stock certificates and agricultural public warehouses and amending certain related laws, as amended, and amending certain related laws /house printing 323/ - third reading Parallelly with the request that the Minister of Agriculture Zdeněk Nekula and the rapporteur of the guarantee committee, Mr Martin Hájek take up the position of the rapporteur's table, I will ask that those who wish to hold discussions other than this press transfer their call to the lobby. The proposal for rejection and amendments were not tabled at second reading. The guarantee committee did not deal with this bill because this was decided by the Chamber of Deputies at second reading. I am now asking the Minister if he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened? Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-001-113.u2	Madam President, honourable Members, allow me, as yesterday, to reiterate today the Government's bill repealing the law on agricultural storage sheets and agricultural public warehouses. The aim of the bill is, above all, to abolish the legislation that has not already been applied, namely the Act on Agricultural Storage Sheets and Agricultural Public Storages, which has previously been used, is now not being applied, and the related repeal. This concerns the Act on Commodity Exchanges and the Act on Administrative Charges, only those parts which are related to the above Act. We also propose to repeal the implementing decree determining the types of agricultural goods on which agricultural stock certificates may be issued and the conditions for the operation of public agricultural warehouses. As I said yesterday, the Agricultural Committee discussed the draft law on 1 March and recommended to the Chamber of Deputies to approve the draft law in the version submitted. At the second reading, which took place yesterday, there were no amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-001-113.u3	Thank you very much, and since the opening words of the rapporteur are not at third reading, I open the debate and ask if anyone is applying? [[No one's checking in.]] I'll make sure one more time... If there is no interest, I am done with the debate. Probably purely for the record, I'll ask if there's any interest in final words? It's not like that. Since there is no amendment, we can proceed to the vote on the whole bill. Once again, I will call on my fellow Members from the lobby and make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill repealing Act No. 307/2000 Coll., on agricultural stock certificates and agricultural public warehouses and amending certain related laws, as amended, and amending certain related laws pursuant to House press 323, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies.' I've started the vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 95, 163 votes in favour, 159 against 0. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur, and I conclude on this point. We will now proceed to the next point that I am opening with this. It's a point number.
