ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-003-103.u1	103. Government bill amending Act No. 563/2004 Coll., on pedagogical workers and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, and Act No. 561/2004 Coll., on pre-school, primary, middle, higher vocational and other education (school law), as amended /house print 289/ - third reading I therefore ask that the applicant take the place, Mr. Education Minister Vladimír Balaš - hello - as well as the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, which was the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, and this is Mr. Mr. Pavel Klíma. The amendments are set out in the Parliament's Press 289/3. That was delivered to you 24. 2. 2023. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as the House's press 289/4. Do I therefore ask the appellant if he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened? [[Yes.]] Yes. In that case, you have the floor. [[11.40 hours]] Minister of Education, Youth and Sports of the Czech Republic Vladimír Balaš: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me present for the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports a proposal to amend the law on educational workers and school law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-003-103.u2	I would ask everyone present in the hall to keep their voice down, or to deal with what they need outside this hall, so that the Minister can be at peace to deliver his speech. You have your word. Minister of Education, Youth and Sports of the Czech Republic Vladimír Balaš: Thank you. Then I'll keep going. The proposal has been discussed in the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic for a long time, it has undergone two readings, it has been discussed by the Guarantee Education Committee and also by the Sub-Committee on Regional Education and Lifelong Learning, but a very similar proposal has been tabled in the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic in the past parliamentary term. Therefore, it can be assumed that everyone present is familiar with the material, and maybe I will sum it up briefly. Firstly, it is about strengthening the management role of the school's headmaster and at the same time addressing the problem of the lack of teachers of certain subjects, and especially in certain localities. This is an introduction of the possibility of recognising for a limited period the prerequisite for a second-grade and secondary-school vocational qualification for teaching subjects which correspond to the study of these people by their nature. The Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports believes that the Director is the most competent to assess who he needs at school. The insurance requirement for pupils to be led by an unqualified teacher as soon as possible is that within three years the person who is accepted without having had had a didactic education will be obliged to complete his qualification. At the same time, we believe that this is also an incentive measure and the aim is to increase the number of qualified teachers. In principle, there may not be any educational tourism, because the three-year period also includes a total of more employers. Furthermore, the proposal anchors the adaptation period for new teachers and thus introduces support pedagogical positions such as the teacher and the accompanying teacher, as well as the position of the teacher. The Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports promises less departure of young teachers from education and an increase in the quality of pedagogical work. The next important item is the revision of the requirements for the professional qualifications of a special teacher, school speech and teaching assistants precisely following the evaluation of joint education, so-called inclusion. Adjustment in the field of educational programmes for pedagogical staff is another point. This is a narrowing of the scope of accreditations only to programmes for obtaining the professional qualifications of pedagogical staff or other qualifications of pedagogical staff. Furthermore, a range of providers of qualification programmes for second-level primary school teachers and teachers of general secondary education courses, newly not only universities, but also facilities for further education of pedagogical staff, but also under strictly defined conditions. Among other things, the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports promises greater competition and this should also involve an increase in quality. The next point, which is very important and important, is to establish a legal rule on the level of salaries. This applies in particular to schools and school establishments established by the region, municipalities or voluntary associations of municipalities and is designed as a commitment of a minimum total wage volume to maintain salaries at 130 per cent of the gross monthly wage. The amendment, of course, also brings some other minor modifications. The Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports also agrees with some of the amendments tabled on the proposal. Firstly, it agrees with the amendments tabled by the Education Committee, which are taken into account in proposals A1 to A23 according to the voting procedure. Much of the amendments, just to remind you, were also created in cooperation with the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports and, for example, the extension of the institute accompanying teachers as well as the participants in the further education of teaching staff, the addition of informal education or the sharing of experience into the list of other forms of education of pedagogical staff, as well as various minor and legislative technical adaptations. In addition, the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports agrees with Mr Marek Výborný's amendment and others, i.e. the G proposal, which regulates the commitment to teacher salaries. Finally, I would like to say that the proposed amendment to the Education Worker Act is the result of long work and many consultations and discussions with various actors active in the field of education, and I would like to thank you for this cooperation. I believe that thanks to this cooperation, the resulting form of the proposal is acceptable to all parties of the political spectrum and to all stakeholders, and I believe it will contribute to further improving Czech education. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention and I would like to ask for the support of the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-003-103.u3	Thank you. I must start the debate first, because we are at the third reading, then you have the opportunity to speak immediately. So I hereby officially open the debate to which the first rapporteur has entered, then with the priority right of President Schillerová, and then for the time being, as the various Members have signed up here. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-003-103.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. On 1 March of this year, colleagues, the Guarantee Committee discussed the Parliament's press 289/3, which contains amendments after the second reading of the bill, and adopted Resolution 115. At its meeting, the Committee approved the voting procedure for this press and adopted an opinion on individual amendments. His conclusions are set out in the Chambers of Press 289/4. At the same time, I would like to point out that, in the framework of the legislative technical adaptations referred to in point 1 of the procedure, we should vote on the amendment of Art. 4 amendments to the law, where the effectiveness is regulated, and let me read it now: The words "which shall take effect on 1 January 2023, and the second part shall be replaced by the words "and the second part which they acquire'. Allow me to make a brief statement. This is a change in effectiveness reflecting the length of the legislative process, when the originally proposed date on 1 January 2023 has already passed. The relevant point 99, the effectiveness of which is newly established on 1 January 2024, concerns the introduction of an adaptation period and the positions of teacher and accompanying teacher and teacher. It is necessary to adjust the effectiveness towards the beginning of the calendar year due to the binding of these institutes on the establishment of standards, which are used to calculate the amount of school funds per calendar year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-003-103.u5	Thank you. At this point, I will ask the first registered, and this is Mrs Jana Berkovcová. I see Mr. Aleš Dufek's factual remark here, just asking if it's right or if it's clicked? [[Not interested.]] So I'm gonna erase it. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-003-103.u6	Thank you. Thank you for the floor. Unfortunately, I must say that your five-police government has not yet been in power for a year and a half, and in that time, you have unfortunately managed to disappoint the vast majority of school workers. I will remind you: it started with a reduction in ONIV's finances last year and you are now backing up from your pre-election promise to maintain the guarantee of the salaries of pedagogical workers to 130 percent of the average wage in the Czech Republic. The biggest criticism of the professional teaching public and school unions is currently heading towards the last part of the amendment, where the school law is changing. The original government proposal for a guarantee of finance for the salaries of pedagogical workers of 1.4 times, i.e. 140 per cent of the average nominal gross monthly wage in the Czech Republic from the previous year, suggests that five coalition Members change to the guarantee of finance to the salaries of teachers only, and that is only 130 per cent, plus without an indication of which year, so the amount cannot be calculated. It's either the intention for later purpose calculations or the error of the plaintiffs, I don't know. The amendment does not contain any calculation and only states: "To achieve an average teacher's salary of 130 per cent of the average gross monthly wage per calculated number of employees in the national economy, an annual impact on the state budget of CZK 1 billion is estimated.' The financial claims of the original version of the amendment were estimated in the order of CZK 30 billion per year, and this is approximately the amount that the teaching staff will lose. The original government proposal for the amendment provides a clear calculation: The amount of funding for the salaries of pedagogical staff will be determined on the basis of the average gross wage of the previous year, which is 1.4 times that. So the new text proposed by the five Members actually contains three amendments: Instead of teaching staff, the amount is reduced to 130 per cent and it is not stated from which year the average wage for the calculation is to be taken, and it is a guarantee of finance on average for the whole Czech Republic. The Ministry of Education distributes funds to individual schools on the basis of teacher assignments, on the basis of individual classes and degrees. The school head may then give money originally budgeted for the remuneration of teachers, for example, to non-teaching workers or other pedagogical staff other than teachers. In the past, school directors were forced to transfer part of this money to ONIV if they lacked money for reimbursements in the first 14 days of sick leave, and all these transfers reduce the average salaries of teachers. The negative opinions on the amendment to the Act on Educational Workers and the Education Act were expressed by 13 school organisations. The following organizations opposed the proposal: the Union of School Associations CZESHA, the Education Union, the Association of Special Teachers, the Union of Employers' Associations, the Association of Teacher-Psychological Workshops, the Association of Special Education Centre Workers, the Association of School Psychology, the Association of Teachers of School Facilities and the Association of Children's and Youth House Workers. The President of the Association of Directors of Gymnasiums and the President of the Association of Primary School Directors also commented negatively on this amendment. His joint statement was issued by the Union of Employers' Unions, the Czech Moravian Trade Union, the Union of School Associations CZESHA and the Association of Special Teachers, where he fundamentally disagrees with the amendment to ensure that the commitment of the guaranteed level of salary does not concern all pedagogical workers, but only teachers. Therefore, other teaching staff, namely tutors, special educators, psychologists and assistants of the educator, would not be affected by this commitment, which would significantly negatively translate into the amount of salary resources that are budgeted for the educator. These workers are essential and necessary for the functioning of educational establishments, and in addition, schools have long been struggling with their lack. The proposed amendment therefore rejects and sees the association and trade unions as an uneven approach to individual groups of teaching staff, which is unacceptable. The Association of Teacher-Psychological Counsellors is opposed to an amendment that does not rank as a key pedagogical profession among psychologists and special educators, whose qualifications can be obtained by studying at only three universities in the country, but includes them in the same category as tutors, assistants, coaches, who often need a course or supplementary education to qualify. Special educators and psychologists in educational counselling facilities and schools are an integral part of the education system and the system of common inclusive education for children and pupils and their expertise and qualifications cannot be neglected by these staff, especially because they are a necessary method of support for all teachers who work with the most demanding pupils, and also require guaranteed certainty, adequate evaluation for their difficult work. The Association of Teachers of School Facilities defends the interests of tutors in school clubs and school clubs, supports also leisure teachers who operate in leisure centres, and they regard the proposed amendment as discriminatory and require equal access for all teaching staff. In school clubs and clubs, they provide pedagogical work and the use of children's leisure time, while those groups and leisure centres, which are burdened with tuition fees, are still completely busy. The Association of School Psychologists considers such a change meaningless and shortsighted. Special educators and psychologists are an integral part of the current system of joint education for children and pupils and their expertise and qualifications, not only helping teachers in their work, but also working with the most demanding pupils and students and their parents, and without special educators and psychologists, inclusive education would not be possible at all. The association of primary school directors is bothered by the division of teachers into two categories, and also by the fact that the five-police commitment to increase teacher salaries to 130 percent of the average wage is just a vague assurance that the government will fill it. The Director has been disturbed by the cancellation of the wage base fixation, missing a hard calculation parameter, and no one knows what it will count on. According to them, predictableness is completely lost. Finally, several tens of thousands of pedagogical workers demonstrate that they are only second-grade, second-class, who do not deserve to be rewarded because the only desired profession in education is a teacher. Perhaps the coalition MPs forgot that there are children's home facilities, an educational institution, a diagnostic institute where teachers work in very difficult conditions, mostly with higher education, and, unlike teachers, they work with children 24 hours a day, seven days a week without any benefits such as teachers, such as holidays. These teaching workers probably do not deserve a salary guarantee. No wonder, then, that in the ranks of these educators there was anger, an insult to all honest employees in this field, who do not bear in their name the term teacher. And I don't think it's at all desirable to sow grudges among colleagues and try to undermine and break their teamwork. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-003-103.u7	Thank you and we have two factual points. First Mr. Ivo Vondrák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-003-103.u8	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to say that for more than 30 years I have been teaching at university and for seven years I have been very intensively engaged in high school education as Governor of the Moravian-Silesian Region. And frankly, I do not see that it is absolutely essential to have wages guaranteed in the law at some level for everyone. [[12.00 hours]] I think it's more important here to send out a signal that we want to pay the teacher the way he deserves, and I dare say that at the moment teachers aren't as bad as they sometimes present themselves. I was invited yesterday as an academic fellow at the academic assembly of the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic and please, the average salary of the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic is CZK 48,880. It's less than the average salary of a teacher in regional education today. Why do I say that? I think that we need to realise that there is some justice and that justice cannot only concern the selected group within the whole school system. This will also apply to universities, which must concern everyone who is actually paid from the budget of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports today. So let's please try to see these things in a much wider context. We're talking about discrimination against those who aren't teachers and are, say, helpers, they're, say, psychologists, within schools. But what about college teachers? They are far worse off today than teachers in regional education. So please, let's try to see this law as a signal to the fact that we certainly don't want teachers to get any worse. On the contrary, I think they should be evaluated as they deserve, but I do not see the absolute necessity for it to be as defined in the law today. I think the way it's prepared, it's correct from the point of view of justice for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-003-103.u9	Thank you and another one with a factual remark is signed by Mr Klíma. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-003-103.u10	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I will still join the debate, but allow me to respond quickly to my colleague, Mrs Berkovcová, through you. I understand that the Minister is now in the shadows, but there have been two lies: we do not take 30 billion, I will even comment on that, and your second quality for teachers, which has raised me. We never said that, and as an 18-year-old primary school principal, I appreciate the work of the tutors, the assistants of the educator I introduced there, and I will be hoiling to keep their place firmly in our school system. I'm responsible for saying that these high school employees, that's just the way it is in eighth grade, they don't have to have 130 percent guaranteed, I'm telling you, and you can beat me for it. And if that's what you want, say it, we'll double their salary. Go and say it in the schools, that's the way it is. 15 billion, if it goes well, we'll bring it to the teacher's salary in January. That's the news, if you don't give your stories about us casting teachers here, they're all gonna applaud us. So come join us and we'll do it. The 130 percent isn't really just a report for current teachers, but as I've said many times here and I'll repeat it, it's a message for current and future seniors that going to the department is a sure thing to earn. This brings us to the level of developed countries not only Europe. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-003-103.u11	I also thank Mrs Berkovcová for her time and another factual remark. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-003-103.u12	Thank you for the floor. I will respond briefly to Mr Klíma. Of course, you didn't mark a group of educators for second grade, that would be a real highlight. But they feel that way, they themselves feel that way, and it's more important that they feel second-rate teaching workers because you took them out of the group guarantee of 130 percent of the average wage. And please do not argue as a misleading argument that maybe high school workers or with high school qualifications deserve 130 percent of the average wage. Nobody says that. Anyone who understands this understands that this is the total amount of salaries for education, with the Director rethinking the salaries in the schools himself, according to the salary tables. Teacher's assistants, school members' tutors have different grades, different grades. But we're also talking about children's home workers, educational institutions, and they're tutors mostly with college qualifications. So don't throw them in the same bag with tutors like high school qualifications. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-003-103.u13	I also thank you and another one with a point of fact is registered by Mrs Zajíčková. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-003-103.u14	I, too, must add to the claim or to the position that we do not like it here, that there are groups of teachers, teachers, and that there are dams between teachers and other teaching staff. It was never meant to be. I think we had an opportunity last week, and there will be a lot more of those possibilities, explaining to other educators that no one sees them that way, but that decision is actually the result of some economic situation that we were built into by our own fault. So please, let's not do this here or create enemy positions here, let's not create the impression that the teacher is just more than any other educator. Everyone is equal, everyone has an irreplaceable role in school. However, a teacher is a person who teaches every day, every hour ahead of him 25, 30 children for whom he has full responsibility, and it is necessary to make this profession generally attractive, stabilize and give him prestige, and we will certainly do that by doing so. This will create some stability, as I said, attractive to young people, experts. And we also made a commitment to meetings with other pedagogical associations and so on to try to make sure that they too have decent salaries and that this is reflected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-003-103.u15	I also thank you and another one with a factual remark is signed by the Minister. Minister, please. Minister of Education, Youth and Sports of the Czech Republic Vladimír Balaš: Thank you, Madam President. I would just like to reject the claim that by not guaranteeing some level of remuneration for others by law, that means that we do not want to reward them properly and adequately. On the contrary, we are working on this, and we will certainly have to find the money and find it, because we understand, like Mrs Berkovcová, that they are very important in school through Madam President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-003-103.u16	Thank you, too. I don't make any further factual comments. I have here applications for two priority rights, the first President Alena Schillerová, and then Mr Výborný. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-003-103.u17	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I would like to remind you that the government's original programming statement - for me, the only programming statement of the government should be changed quietly, but in the original programming statement of the government, on the basis of which the government gained the trust of the Chamber of Deputies, it was guaranteed to adjust the salaries of all pedagogical workers in order to achieve 130 per cent of the average gross monthly wage. The Cabinet of Petr Fiala, as I indicated a while ago, but at the beginning of March, he quietly amended his programming statement by wanting to guarantee a salary increase of 130 percent of the average wage only to teachers. The government's original programme of adjustment of salaries to all pedagogical workers thus clearly took it as its own. And now the new government plan in this area is to be completed in legislative terms, on the basis of the amendment of five coalition Members. [[12.10 hours]] I am not surprised that the education unions are appalled by this sudden turn of government policy in the field of education. The government, which was unable to save on its operation, even though it promised before the elections, after the election - a declaration, could name them all here - a year and a half a crown on its operation, so it chose another victim. And it brings an unwarranted division between teachers and teachers of the second category. We were on a round table, which was run by trade union leaders and colleagues, we only participated in organizing, we sat there last week, a lot of us, and I heard it there, as other teaching staff, such as tutors, special educators, assistants or school psychologists, so important to ensure the functioning of our education as a whole, should be thrown overboard. The declared priority of education takes it as quickly as the five-calice marquetetes put it into electoral programs and now an invalid programming statement, which, of course, they have made a piece of paper - not only in this area, in other areas. This is, of course, a classic five-calice double-cross, and it is extremely unfair for the future of the Czech Republic, which depends on the quality of education of the young generation, and extremely harmful. There is no valid reason to exclude from the guaranteed salary workers who are absolutely crucial to the functioning of the schools and, moreover, their huge lack. [[Voices off the microphone.]] I don't care if you said anything here. [[Voice off the microphone.]] You can say that again, because I've heard those arguments many times, but those are just empty words. Empty words that you were perceiving. I heard President Výborný say on the round table: We meant teachers when we put pedagogical workers in the program statement, but do you know what it's like? One thought, as they say. And then I heard, we're gonna guarantee it, it's just a matter of budget. Yes, you're right. As former finance secretary here, I say frankly: our government didn't need the law to do it. So you can walk around here three times in a row, one by one, telling me that there was some sort of election proposal for the pirát - I'll tell you that we didn't need any law to keep this commitment. This means that I have the figures here, the clear numbers that were the average salary of teachers between 2008 and 2021, when our government took over, what was the average salary of non-teaching workers in regional education, and I've had it since 2008. I have a period here when the Minister of Education was the current Prime Minister Petr Fiala. So I see what salaries were there and what salaries were at the end of the period and how they were increasing. I have it here year after year, as it gradually grew, year after year, because our government - on the one hand - promised it and, on the other hand, we realized that this would, of course, be very crucial for our country's future. And we are already deciding how our country will prosper in ten, 20 years. This week I saw a projection of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, who is already planning pensions by 2050. Of course, the projections are completely off because they're based on so-called unchanged state. And we don't expect things to change when we hear every day that this government is working on pension reform. But I took a turn. So if this is how we design in other departments, why don't we think about it in education? And that is why it was a priority for our government, and I have had big discussions in every budget with the Minister, the Minister of Education at the time, we argued about items and had to convince me and prove it, but we have always been able to agree and it was in favour of teachers, teachers, but also non-teachers, because they are all equally important for the functioning of education. And I think we all know that, and that the future of the nation at this moment rests mainly on this profession and on this area, because they are people... Now, I was here with the Aktech, maybe you were there, too, if you weren't, I'd be happy to send you there. There is such a beautiful activity that I support every year, even in some modest finance, of course. It is an activity that spreads education among children, among the young generation, and that is precisely the future. The educator who started it, the high school professor, the high school teacher, the great guy, I really appreciate him, he has a huge knowledge -- and these are exactly the people we need to get there. But we have to get a young generation there, too. We must achieve that there is an interest in teaching faculties and, above all, that those who graduate from teaching faculties - and this was a topic that was very concerned with our government, I know that we have been debating this very often - are returning to education so that they do not leave the field. So we are certainly very critical of this amendment. We absolutely don't like it. We also need to realize what economic situation we are in - there is volatile inflation, there is a decline in real wages. All of this will still have an impact on both the area and education. And I think you should reconsider and not dig ditches. It is enough that you are kicking between pensioners and young people - yesterday we watched, as five-wheelers did not agree to increase parental contribution - so I think you should not dig them in this area because this country needs high-quality motivated teachers who prepare students, children for new challenges, who will make them top experts, but of course need all those who are moving in this area and who are active in this area because it would not work without them. For the YES movement, I say here that, of course, we will not support the amendment. And if it passes, we'll wait for it to turn out. If he passes, I will take some appropriate break - appropriate, don't worry, it is not an obstructive break, but it is appropriate - that we continue to talk about how we stand up to the law as a whole, because there are a lot of good things in that law, but this, among other things, is what our shadow minister of education and other colleagues are going to talk about, that there are things that, of course, deserve support - but this is a thing that is extremely bothering us. So we have to assess how we're going to stand up to this, based on how you're going to stand up to this key amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-003-103.u18	Thank you, too. Your speech raised Mr Salvetr's factual comment. Ambassador, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-003-103.u19	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very careful - and I think regularly - to listen to the words that are spoken here, and I do not want to comment on a number of things, because I would often repeat the words of my previous speakers. Now I'm going to make an exception for one simple reason. I have been in education for over 20 years, of which the 1990s, 1995 to 2006, as headmaster, and I know what the conditions in regional education were. I wouldn't want us to go back to them, even under the impression that the current financial situation is not in good shape. And I would just recall the moment when we distributed about CZK 17,000 in excess of the 70-member congregation, the annual rewards, the thing completely unimaginable, and I very much appreciate and appreciate the way previous governments, I think, have treated regional education for the past eight years, and that money has been growing there. Anyway... [[Mrs Schiller is speaking from the bench.]] I said, grow... grow, ma'am. [[Chairman?]] It's not just that. [[Mrs Schiller from the bench: I didn't understand.]] Yes, they were growing, and they were growing, too. And even at a time when he was covid and had to be appreciated by teachers for what they did in that difficult online teaching, they knew that on their salaries. [[12.20 hours]] But I must reject what is said here that we want to divide individual school workers today, and I know very well that teachers without assistants and without non-teaching staff could not do their responsible work. However, the 130 percent is a guarantee and a message to them that education is once... [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] Well, I'm gonna turn myself in one more time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-003-103.u20	Okay, thank you. Now with priority rights, Mr President Excellent. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-003-103.u21	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear Minister, colleagues, colleagues, the patience of roses brings. I did not deliberately sign up with factual remarks, on the other hand, when I heard the words of Mrs Berkovcová here and then the President, so even though I am then duly entered in the debate, I think it is necessary to respond to these matters in time, as long as it is in the context, so that we can actually have a meaningful debate here. So I'm sorry that I skipped my colleagues and took advantage of the priority right to sign up for this debate, and I'm also canceling my application. But I have to respond. First, a little historical look. Dear fellow teachers, dear fellow teachers, if she were to amend the law on pedagogical workers, in principle in a very similar version, which we have here today, which included an amendment to the guarantee of the salaries of teachers in the previous term, which was even here - and then supported by the votes of today's government coalition Members, we were able to convince if I am not mistaken, as well as part of the government coalition on this - and the Chamber of Deputies approved this law with guarantees for you, for teachers, for teachers. He advanced to the Senate, the Senate returned the bill to us because of the matter, not because of this, and when we had to vote here on the law so that he could actually pay from 2021, the law was due to the decision of the then Finance Minister - everyone put their name - the law did not pass. So I find it a little hypocritical to hear here today about how important it is to add more and more and more, when the guarantee could have been here. I will also honestly say that I have always repeated, including publicly, here at this speaking desk on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, as well as in the debates with the public in the media, that we cannot deny the previous government - and we have supported it - that it has devoted itself to salaries in education, especially in regional education, and this very significantly. It was right, it's meant to be. And we, our government, with the participation of KDU-ČSL and all other coalition partners, want to continue this. Therefore, in both the coalition agreement and the programme statement, we had a commitment of 130 percent also written, however right those who say it is unsystemic, no other professional group in the Czech Republic is guaranteed this. Seniors or, respectively, those who receive pensions have a guaranteed valorisation. That's actually the other group, but that's not a salary. Retirement isn't a salary, I think we agree. But no other professional group has that guarantee. Yet I, as an MP, but also as a teacher, a former school principal, say: Yes, that is correct, and here we can certainly agree also from the debates, I know that, even with the opposition, education is a crucial and crucial area for the future of the Czech Republic, for our industry, for our business relations, for the development of science and research, innovation - when I see my colleague Špičák, he will certainly confirm it, yes - and others. Yes, we realize that, which is why we had it in the government's programming statement. And there, and it has to be said, an honest man makes mistakes, politicians make them, even though we are - and no one can deny that and we can prove it in different media ways - we talked about the guarantee, as my colleague Pavel Klíma said here, about the guarantee for teachers, so really in the government's original programming statement was the concept of a pedagogical worker, which is the subject of terminology inaccurate. Yes, we realize that. But at the same time - and I explained it last week at the round table, I considered it right, I also confirmed to the head of the department that I would come there and that I was ready to argue - and I must say that I was pleased that after it ended, many participants spoke to me - I am not saying that all but many participants - as well as social partners within the tripartite, who said: We understand these arguments. Yes, we understand that an assistant educator is hardly to have the same salary as a teacher, that it is simply some disproportion that is logical and to be preserved. I have to say that the fact that we promised it and promised it to the teachers, and please, let's not take the word that there were originally pedagogical workers, I explained it here and I'm sorry - yes, the mistake has happened, it's honest to admit it, but we are also filling this world with this. And it must be recalled and explained in the context of what Mrs Berkovcová said, several things. It is a guarantee of volume for teachers' salaries, but this does not mean, please, nicely, that does not mean that the amount of money that will be allocated to individual schools for the salaries of teaching staff as a whole, including teachers, but including special educators, including school psychologists, tutors, teachers' assistants and so on. If I want to simplify this very much, everyone here who opposes this proposal is actually saying: Dear Directors, next year you will receive or, respectively, you will not be guaranteed 5 billion to pay your employees teaching staff, including teachers. Or if the proposal is supported, it is actually a commitment for the government, for the Minister of Education - sitting next to me - but also for the Minister of Finance, who knows very well about it and, of course, does not like it as the administrator of the state register, but clearly said: Yes, this is a political commitment that must be fulfilled, and these funds for fair pay in schools must be given to schools - if we commit to it, it must also apply. I want to point out here that this is really the volume, we never said it would be a guarantee of 130 percent of the salary of a particular teacher, it can't happen. But part of that law is also much higher support for the management role and position of the school head. And he is the headmaster of the school who knows his teaching body best and who knows best where he has the quality teachers that, by the way, he needs to keep in school to develop the vision with which he joined the principal. I've always called it the school principal: these are my tow horses and we'll pamper and take care of them, and they can often have a reward higher than 130 percent, and that's right, that's how it's supposed to be. It's the headmaster's responsibility. And then there are those who carry out the duties that belong to them under the Education Act, among other things, and there may not even be 130 percent of them. But let's leave it to the school principal, he's in the finals responsible for the quality of education. Now, let me make one more comment, very important, and I said it at the round table last week, so whoever was there heard it. We know very well that, especially in today's post-covid age, when schools are hitting very seriously, for example, the mental state of school pupils things that happen in public space, in international context, the war in Ukraine and the like, that some positions in schools are crucial and important. For example, they are school psychologists, special educators and some others. And yes, in the amount that they don't fall out of - it's not that schools get only those guaranteed 130 percent for teachers, of course we know how it goes, on the basis of these tables, the means are being broken down for other non-teaching positions, it will also apply in the future. And the only advantage is that the principal gets the budget, the prize package higher. But what I want to emphasize. I asked Minister Balaš to enter the negotiations with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which is the guarantor of the salary tables en bloc within the state administration, and that some of the key positions, such as special pedagogues or school psychologists, should be dealt with urgently, for example, by moving in pay classes, because it is true that they are not only college educated workers, but that they are really key to the functioning of our schools, both basic and secondary ones. This is what I think needs to be recalled and emphasized, and the negotiations, if I have the right information, are already underway. And I will be the first to try to keep this promise, so that we can really fulfill it. [[12.30 hours]] So much for the salaries, and the question is quite simple: if we want to strengthen and guarantee schools, then we have to support this amendment because it will apply not only to this government, but more and more and more, and if the government wants to fulfil its legal obligation written into the law, however extraordinary and exceptional - and we can argue whether it should be, whether it is systemic or not - but if it is there, the government will be bound by it, just as it will be bound by it, and it is bound by our government, which would have done those steps, even if it had not been in this law, of course, we have declared it and we have fulfilled our promises. However, we schoolchildren consider this guarantee essential. And then when I took my word for it, let me say one more thing, or maybe a few. I am sorry that Mrs Berkovcová seems to have only read one amendment. No, I know she hasn't, but the law isn't just about teachers' salaries. I understand that this is a tempting political issue. By the way, there were a number of things that weren't entirely true from the listed associations. Some of the associations didn't join in, after the round table, we explained a lot of things to the union representatives, so I think whoever wants to understand would understand. Indeed, and I would like to point out here, there is no casting of teaching staff. As a teacher, as an ex-director, that would be the last thing I'd go down to. Not really, no way. And I'm saying again, in total, there will be more to the schools for salaries. But what I'm saying is, that's where I'm headed, that law contains far more fundamental things than this. The law brings not only the opportunity to accept a high-quality expert from practice, and not as often described, that anyone who is without education and the like gets into schools. The obligation of higher education, and we are now there after the debates - I see my colleague Berki here, we have been very passionately debating it - and it is clearly written that it must be related to the subject that the teacher will be teaching, there is an obligation to complete his pedagogical education. So there is really no disrespect for the teaching profession, there is no threat to the quality of education, on the contrary, I know this from my own experience: the fact that someone has a degree from the Faculty of Education is not a guarantee of quality in schools. Let's be critical, that's right. Very often, the expert brings more to the school. We are introducing important positions such as the listing or accompanying teacher. Statistically, many new graduates of teacher education leave the schools in the first or second year of their practice. This is also to be prevented by having a supervisor who will accompany him, whether in the course of teaching practice at university or in the early years of his teaching practice at school. These are, and colleagues will certainly mention other things that are there - dépéesky, other pedagogical studies, and others. This is what I think is valuable in this law, and I would very much like it if not today, so that on Friday this law is passed, to be sent to the Senate, because it is an important contribution to the quality of education in the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-003-103.u22	Thank you, too, and we have four factual points. First Mr Salvetr, Mrs Schillerová, Mrs Berkovcová and Mr Rais will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-003-103.u23	Thank you for the floor. I won't use those two minutes. I want to finish what I said. I understand, by your means, the words of Professor Vondrák, who says he doesn't think it would have to be incorporated into the law. I am glad that it will be incorporated there, for one simple reason: the conditions in regional education actually 25 years ago were such that there was always a promise: Yes, education has priority, and then we saw the result by the end of the year - 90, 92 percent of the average wage. I really see the 130 percent that the Minister is promoting as a guarantee of that and a certain bonus in respect of other professions that police officers, soldiers and other professions have, so it gives a clear signal to teachers that it pays to study the faculty, and the 130 percent in no way means that it is a superattractive profession or that it dramatically increases the attractiveness of the profession. I know well what is happening in the principals and in the schools and what these people are going through, but I think it is for another and social debate as to how reasonable, appropriate and desirable it would be for society to have a relationship with pedagogical workers as a whole. So I ask that we not at least divide the staff rooms on the basis of this proposal, because really the teacher as the clear guarantor of children's education, youth I think that this bonus does not deserve this extraordinarily, but it is extremely necessary for that certainty to be in schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-003-103.u24	I also thank you for keeping time, and now it is President Schillerová's turn. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-003-103.u25	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I'm not gonna defend myself here anymore, because every time the arguments run out, they're gonna bring up the law in the last term. I repeat: our government did not need any law, and it complied with that obligation, and you today by the law that actually goes - if there is an amendment by five coalition MPs - it only goes to teachers, so you will guarantee the maximum, with scratched ears, that it will return to the level of 2021 or that you guarantee them salaries in 2021. You certainly don't guarantee them a big shift, because basically, the drop, the drop, of less than 130 percent of the average wage, is about 116,6 percent today. So there is a need to realize that real wages have fallen, which has also been written into these salaries. So that's what I'd like to say without arguing whether or not there was an amendment. And the distribution, Mr. Vice-President, the distribution: they feel - we heard it on the round table, I don't know if you were there last week, there were very emotional different teachers from children's homes and other areas - and they feel that way. That room was full of emotions because it felt a huge injustice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-003-103.u26	I also thank you, and another one with a point of fact is registered by Mrs Berkovcová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-003-103.u27	Thank you for the floor. I will just follow up on Mr Výborný for a very short time. That it is necessary to strengthen the role of the school manager, the headmaster as a school manager, I completely agree with that, but you are not making it any easier for those directors. If the Director receives a salary of 130 per cent only for teachers and for other teaching staff, the salaries will remain the same - you say they will not decrease, but they will actually decrease. If they do not increase, the salaries of other teaching staff will decrease in real terms. What's the headmaster gonna do? One gets two pay tables, one will have a table for teachers, the other for other teaching staff. That's a certain complication, that's what smells of caste. What's the headmaster gonna do? You know that, like he's done so far. Of that volume, of which a bundle of money of 130 percent for teachers, he spills it over to other teaching staff, for non-teaching workers, or from it subsidize ONIVY as he has done so far. It will subsidize other workers, from the above, and that will really reduce the wages or salaries of teachers. 130 percent of them are unattainable, and I mean that on average. And I still have time, so note to the round table. Too bad you weren't there, Minister, because you could talk to the workers, it's been said. And I do not know who Mr Výborný spoke to, we have also spoken with most of those participants and there has been very strong support from them towards us, to the opposition in this regard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-003-103.u28	Thank you, and another with a factual point is Mr Rais. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-003-103.u29	Hello, everyone. I would like to follow up on what the previous speaker said, that there has been some agreement in the course of a really long negotiation, and I personally see the consensus in that he will simply stand in front of the department accredited, or I hope he will stand an accredited teacher who has passed through the dépée and nothing else. This was a thing we've been working really hard on in the past period. I consider this a plus. As for the minus, of course I see it in what I also experienced on that round table, when basically a lot of people feel that it just doesn't belong to the category of educator and that they're actually going to be in the House, so sorry, they're going to be in the teachers' lounge, not in the House, they're going to be in the faculty room, and they're actually going to be like what they said, second-class teachers. And those promises, of course, that fell on the ODS side, they honestly don't believe that. As far as the current situation is concerned, in support of what Mrs Schillerová said, I would like to draw up the publication Münich, who had already basically stated last year that there was a decline in wages, and he did not know about any inflation at all. So the situation is really very, very dramatic, and what is in the law is true. And I'd like to ask because I don't know if it's gonna be my turn: can I also request a motion to return to second reading as part of the note? Can I do that within? [[- Yes. Yes.]] So I think that we need to discuss this because we can still discuss it, and I personally have the opinion that we should go back. And it really doesn't say it has to be 130 percent, but it would be good to catch it to take all... [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-003-103.u30	But you have to make it in time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-003-103.u31	Okay. So I suggest we move to the other one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-003-103.u32	Yes, I've recorded my return to second reading. Thank you. Another with a point of fact - President Výborný. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-003-103.u33	Thank you. Just in a hurry, 'cause maybe the directors, school teachers, are watching the debate later. It's said repeatedly that some of the funds are then transferred to the ONIVs. So, please, nicely, the problem in ONIVY is that ONIVY is still being paid compensation under sickness. It's nonsense. It's not supposed to be there. It's a payoff. And the Treasury, which we discussed sometime three months ago, is already preparing for a change, this will be taken out of it. This should in a significant way help the oniv not to do so here. So just a factual reminder, which I understand sounds, because the problem is really still in school today, but it should be resolved. The former Treasury Department resisted the teeth of the fingernails. Well, I'm glad we've reached an agreement with Minister Stanjura now, and this will, of course, be the sick leave from the ONIVs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-003-103.u34	Thank you, too. We are going back to the general debate; it is Mrs Mádlová's turn. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-003-103.u35	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to stay with this amendment, but I would like to look at it from another angle, because, of course, the finances are important, they have been discussing here. There are some contradictions here and they will stay. If it's gonna go the way of the law, there's one question mark. It's your journey. It's a question of whether a word shouldn't be enough to negotiate with representatives of this profession, but okay. We are glad that teachers have guaranteed an increase, even if it's for a teaching position, not for a teacher. And I also have to agree with my colleague Vondrák, because there will certainly be higher education in front of us. The teaching profession is undoubtedly challenging, especially today, when there are various social changes. Society is changing, there are different problems of families and so on. It's not easy. I myself have the last experience at the time of the covid, when I learned full-time the entire academic year online and possibly even with a respirator, when it has already been cancelled strictly online teaching. It was very difficult because the preparation was completely different. Fortunately, I have to say that on academic grounds the problems of disadvantaged pupils, problems with families and so on are not addressed, but the funding of universities is certainly ahead of us. I consider it to be a very unfortunate communication about this amendment, and I must agree with my colleague Jana Berkovcová because you may have accidentally dug up a bit of a dispute, I do not know whether to use the word trenches, between teachers and other teaching staff, because even in your programming statement there were simply those teaching workers. And then I noticed in the press that even the Prime Minister said it was a mistake or a typo. So if we consider psychologists, special educators to be a mistake or a typo, I wouldn't want to live to see that, but nevertheless it was in the press. I think that is not the case because they are an integral part of today's education, and without them our education simply cannot be without them, if it is set as we want it to be. Undoubtedly, education has a number of problems, it is important to cultivate it, develop it and so on, but that is not what we are talking about here today. However, Minister Gazdík, when he presented this amendment, said that the government is counting on the fact that, after the amendment to the Law on Educational Workers, support positions in schools will become the mandatory expenditure of the state budget. If it wasn't for bread, it'd have to be for those positions. It's a question of whose bread, how big of bread, if it's not just a slice of bread and all that. I see the problem with the amendment, the communication, the fact that you actually took them out of it, that means that they really feel that they are teaching workers as much as they are in a different position, and they don't know why, because they are an important wheel in the system, and you didn't tell them directly in this amendment system what salaries are expected to be. Will they remain in those tables that are for the present all teaching staff? Or is this table going to change? Are the tariffs going to change or what? That's one of my questions, and I think it should be heard here because you're going to give them some confidence to know where they're gonna move, how much the state appreciates them, how much they want them in the system, but that hasn't sounded here yet, and it's very important because they're college students who have to constantly educate themselves, have different specializations, and without them, those schools and pedagogical psychology counseling can't be done. So I'd like to ask you to explain this in some way, how you plan to do so on a salary basis with those other teaching staff. And you, Minister, on the question of why, then, did not remain in the proposal, said: Do not ask me, ask the Members who submitted the proposal. But they probably also live in some real world, and they've assessed that at the moment, when it's really hard to commit beyond, it's probably not entirely conscientious, but I'm speaking for them, but I hope that there's no significant change in remuneration. That last sentence I said, it's really important that you say what's going to happen with the pay, because if they have to move to a different table, they can, of course, stay on those salaries where they are, or they can go below. It's just the uncertainty is big. And the Prime Minister has said in several places in the media that it is necessary to increase the attractiveness of the teaching profession so that teachers want to be good young people who will remain behind the department even after graduating. If we fail to do so, we will not improve our education system and we will not be able to provide quality education for our children in the future, the Prime Minister said. He stressed that a dignified reward, according to him, also belongs to other teaching workers. In the law, however, only teachers should be guaranteed a specific percentage. Okay, it's your way, but what's the other way? So what's the deal with the payoff? That didn't even ring a bell, and that's what we need to tell them. And it wasn't even part of the amendment. [[12.50 hours]] Unfortunately, as part of communication, I must say that you have actually ignored this group of important teaching staff. I mean, you didn't even thank them for the work they're doing - up here - that they're an integral part of the whole system. I think it is extremely important to make sure that they are an important part of the whole school system, and we really cannot do without them in today's education with today's problems. I have specific examples from the Pilsen Region, where - I will not name - but a completely disbanded pedagogical-psychology center, psychological counseling. From three to two, they left. They're gonna start a private practice? Maybe so, one of them definitely. In primary schools in Pilsen we lack a special teacher. It just doesn't. When I ask them how they handle it, the diagnostics will be transferred to the teachers and then a special educator will be sought within the city to discuss it, whether it really deserves some kind of support measure or some kind of intervention or what to do with it. This means that the Prime Minister's vision for young teachers to stay in education is amazing, but you also have to work with different generations. You can't move in generations - I'd rather say mine, because so I don't offend other colleagues, that they're as old as I am, I don't know, that means in my generation - because they look at the world in a completely different way. Now you're outnumbered by millennials, and they want to combine private life and leisure, they want to travel. You don't think so? That's right. They're actually called generation hop on - hop off, so if they're not happy somewhere, then after a year, after two they leave. You know we have a number of teaching staff or teachers outside the system. There's a lot of them at pharmaceutical companies. Maybe it's already changed because that's where the regime got stronger. So to hold them, you have to offer them that the system works as a whole. But if you don't add or give others the motivation that you value them within the set system of education, and you say to them, "Well, we've added you, then you're going to add diagnostics, diagnostics of a disadvantaged pupil or a student with a disability." You understand, there's a need, you have to motivate them, because they're used to working on the team. That means you have to offer them a working system. Now we have a lot of problems to deal with. Special educators - you know there's a problem because there's a shortage. We have problems with education. Specifically, in the Pilsen Region, it is not possible to expand the programme or study field of special pedagogy at the Faculty of Education, because there are not habilized people, there are no professors there, because the field is developing in some way. Now, the question is, Minister, how are you going to deal with this, of course, at the level of higher education, if we're going to lower the standard, if we don't want professors anymore, even if it's a science field, and so on. Of course, there are a number of questions that we can't solve right now, but you and the young ones have to offer a working system. Otherwise, even if you add work to them, by the way, hugely administrative, they won't be in that system anyway. That means it's important to remember the whole system, actually. I have another comment here on Mr Výborný, through Madam President. A teacher's assistant should never have a teacher's salary, so that's kind of what you said here. Well, that's understandable, because it depends on the work catalogue, the type of work, the grade and the grade, so there's probably nothing to talk about. I think it's important to remind you of that, too. It is really necessary to communicate some message, the fact that those pedagogical workers mentioned in Section 2 - and other professions are likely to be added - that you value them, that without them the system will simply not work. It won't be. I don't know if my colleague is snorting at me, but I hope she isn't. Then, as far as the amendment is concerned, I think that we should look at the effects of the amendment, not only on the financial ones, but at all on the effects of the overall education, because RIA, in fact, the summary report, is there, thanks to this amendment, a thing that either does not apply or may not apply. That is what I think would be necessary in some way to assure the professional public and parents that the whole system of education will continue to work. On the one hand, you write here: On the other hand, this proposal increases the requirements for the training of teaching assistants and specifies the requirements for the professional qualifications of special educators. That's right. But on the other hand, in this amendment, you are telling them that they will be otherwise paid. But how? So I'm asking for an answer. Further in RIA: "The vision of a long-term stable and competitive remuneration of teaching staff has a strong potential to attract better students for teaching and other pedagogical professions." I was just talking about it, so it's a big question mark. If they don't feel motivated enough to stay in that system - and of course there are many motivations - they won't be in that profession. So this is with a big question mark, and in RIA it's not entirely based on the truth right now, but it's with a big question mark. With regard to social impacts, the proposal has an impact on families and specific groups of people, in particular persons with social weaknesses and people with disabilities, by increasing the quality of teaching staff, especially teachers, in education and education in schools and educational establishments. These are also the teaching staff that we are talking about now, because they are also involved in the educational process. Of course, by letting them know that there will be other tables that no one here knows what they will look like, you put the whole system into uncertainty because you don't know if psychologists and special educators will run away to your own meetings or if they won't look for jobs outside, for example in some managerial positions, and what impact it will have on families, because even such a tutor of college education can get angry and he can say that he won't be in the group, and he will go elsewhere, what impact it will have on families with young children. So I think it is important that we discuss this here, and to sum up this, that means that your amendment does not describe the effects, both on the education system, from the point of view of the educational staff of the joint education and the implementation of the approved 2030 strategy, and then it is also the social impacts that I was talking about, that is, what are the effects on parents and children in a situation where special educators leave you, you will not have pedagogical psychology counseling. Do you know that today's waiting period is six to seven months for such a professional examination? Then, to some extent - now perhaps accidentally, I suppose - interpersonal relations have been disrupted just between the teaching staff referred to in Section 2. It's just unfortunate communication and the fact that you don't actually give them the confidence that they're supposed to be. As far as the justification for your amendment is concerned, you write that there are some 152,000 teachers registered. Then the rest, that means a little over 40,000, they're the other teaching staff. In order to get an idea of the finances or the number of people, I want to ask whether they are calculated persons or whether they are part-timers, because we can have 22,000 teaching assistants, which may seem like a big number in this system and that it needs to be reduced, but it can also be 16,000 jobs, as I have recorded in some statistics, which is, of course, a difference in financial terms, if I wanted to calculate just costs or expenses. Then you are just saying that, as far as teachers or teaching staff are concerned, they have a direct impact on the process of education from kindergarten to higher vocational schools. And here's the question, what's the direct effect on the education process, what do you mean, is it a direct pedagogical activity or what is it? Just so we're clear, how the wheels in the whole system fit together. [[13.00 hours]] Then you list here who it is, or kindergarten teachers, primary school teachers, secondary schools, including vocational training. Then here you have: teachers of conservatory and higher vocational schools and teachers of basic art schools. So this is where I was going to ask, what classification did you guys do this list by? Because if you used the one used by the Czech Statistical Office, it is ISCO, an international standard of classification of profession, which is also used by the Czech Statistical Office in the teaching profession, then there are no teachers of language schools. So I was wondering if your proposal concerns language school teachers as well? And then this classification also includes teachers for people with special educational needs, and it literally says: "They teach physically and mentally disabled children, adolescents, adults hard to handle or with other educational needs. " So I wanted to ask if this applies to these teachers, or does it not apply to these teachers? Because this classification may work with the concept of a teacher of hearing impaired persons, a teacher of visually impaired persons, so let's be clear. And I think this is important because it is a big change, your amendment is a big change that will clearly affect the whole system, so we need to be clear and precise. And I'm wondering if these teachers who aren't listed here are involved, if they're involved, or if they're not involved and you're not counting on them. On the contrary, this category does not include, for example, teaching assistants and you have tutors and so on, special educators - and then you write "and so on." I think it is important to make a really pregnant list of these pedagogical professions, and it would be good to even refer to some of the classifications you use to make it clear to everyone how you distinguish those pedagogical workers. I think it is extremely important that you make sure that this system continues to work, as education and health services are really resorts that are very important for the relocation of our society. About that, I don't think it's necessary to continue to elaborate that on this soil it's absolutely clear to everyone. Anyway, I was wondering, what's your set-up for education now? How much do you expect with the other teaching staff, even though you're here to make sure they do, but how are you sure they won't leave your profession? Because in the Plzeň Region, that's how it is. It's a team...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-003-103.u36	My colleague, I'm sorry, I'm going to interrupt you for a moment, just to avoid confusion within the Chamber of Deputies. For the 13th hour, we were to have a fixed item number 139, but on the basis of the agreement of the Presidents of all the Clubs, this fixed classification is cancelled, that is, we are continuing the debate, so I did not interrupt the Member at 13 o'clock. However, we already have 13.03, so that there is no confusion, which is why I interrupted you like this. I'm very sorry, and please continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-003-103.u37	Madam President, thank you, that time is going really fast. This means that it really needs to be said here today the effects of your amendment law on the whole school system. And now I want to go back to the fact that as a key, you say that teachers have a direct impact on the education process. I use your wording because in education there is a direct pedagogical activity in the educational process, so I think it would also be good to explain, and also with this there is an operation of the law on pedagogical workers, where it is said that the pedagogical worker is the one who performs direct teaching, direct education, direct special pedagogical or direct pedagogical psychology activity directly acting on the educated. And as you know, educators, then we have appropriate government regulations where the direct teaching activity is listed, so, for example, the tutor, whom you also put in another salary table, has, for example, 28 to 30 hours of direct teaching or teaching activity, sorry, pedagogical activities, and so on, so it is clearly written there. The Labour Code also mentions direct pedagogical-psychological activities, because this is, of course, based on this law. By the way, I think it is still important to say that the whole team of teaching staff, as mentioned in Section 2, has helped greatly in managing the war in Ukraine in our schools. I think it hasn't been said at all, it's very important to thank them for this, so not only did teachers manage it - you also know how it went in those schools, that it was very difficult, that of course other teachers, whether educators in the teams, or teaching assistants, and so on. This was confirmed directly by colleagues in the field that it was, so I think it's important. What is also important to mention is that there are a lot of problems. The number of children with special needs in schools and kindergartens is increasing, it is a really big number. When I looked at statistics, it is about 178,000 of the total number of 1,742,000 children in schools, with disabilities or with health or social disadvantages, so this number is not small. With regard to kindergartens to secondary schools, these are, as we know, speech flaws, development disorders, what has already been said here - I do not know who, one of my colleagues, perhaps a colleague Výborný, through Madam President - autism, mental disability, and there the number of these children has doubled to tripled. That means you can't do without special educators, psychologists. And the support measure, the teacher's assistant, makes use of about 33,000 children. So it is important to know what impact your amendment will have on the education system. I know that the Ministry of Education is preparing a change in the tables to some coefficients for the allocation of teaching assistants, which also raises various questions so far, whether even small classes will not be bits and the like, but this is not the subject of today's discussion. And as for a special educator and psychologist, I've already said that they are highly specialised professions, they have a higher education and they can't just end with education, they must of course continue to be educated, and they have a specific focus, such as focusing on children with hearing disabilities, visuals, learning sign language and so on, so it's highly specialized activity and demanding in those schools, really demanding. And as I said, it is missing - in Pilsen, in the Pilsen Region it is missing, and I think it is also missing in other parts of the Czech Republic - and the experts clearly agreed that the psychologist and special educator should be part of the school, should be directly active in those schools, not just in counseling, and confirmed this by long-term practice. This is because the psychologist or special educator is immediately to reach when there is a problem and gives crisis intervention, while the appointment times until the meeting are long. So it's also important to tell them how much you value them and what their salaries will look like. Often their role in schools is preventive. You go to counseling when there is a problem, but it also acts preventively in schools, so that's very important. [[13.10 hours]] As for the government approved by the 2030 Strategy, in which this government continues, which is certainly a good thing, so as for a special educator and psychologist, you have there: "Ensure conditions for joint education. There will be sufficient capacity of consulting facilities and school consulting centres.' And then, in this strategy, it says that a long-term perspective on the financing of workers is needed. But with the amendment, you actually set them apart, but you didn't tell them B. It's in the Strategy, Minister. So I'm asking if it doesn't affect the implementation of the 2030 Strategy in any way, because we already know that the experts aren't, and it's not possible to educate them in all the universities, because those schools, as a young branch, don't have enough erudite workers to cover the field, they don't have docentures, they don't have professors, they're gradually developing it all. So is the 2030 Strategy not threatened at this point? Then there is "analyze and support the development of specialized activities of the school." This means that an analysis is to be carried out to examine the state of the specialised positions. As part of the strategy, I think there was also a methodological instruction for institutionalization of helping or supporting professions, where you are currently writing about a school psychologist. Here you write: "The standard will be defined for the positions of a school psychologist, a school special educator and a school assistant." So the implementation of this strategy is not at risk? So that's what I'd like to know. As far as a special educator is concerned, we said that there is a new one, and it is a good one, you are introducing education focused on pedagogy, the preparation of primary school teachers or the preparation of teachers in general educational subjects. And so I'm asking if this, in this group, belongs to teachers for students with special educational needs, which you don't have in the list that you want to raise. That means I'm going back to the classification - who else belongs to that category, or should it belong to that category, or should it not belong to that category? I've already talked about a school psychologist here. And it needs to be realized that this proposal, because if you don't talk about those other teaching workers and their important place in the education system, it will damage not only the quality of education, but, of course, it can also sign negatively on the student's mental health, because you know as well as I do when communicating with teachers and high school directors that they deal with bullying, cyberšikan, solve bulimia and so on. There are a number of problems, without a psychologist you simply cannot do it today and a long waiting period for pedagogical psychology counseling, regardless of the fact that somewhere they may fall apart from objective causes. As far as the teaching assistant is concerned, we know that there are two levels of education requirements, but I would like to remind myself here - teachers probably know this, but maybe only educators do not listen to us - the main task of teaching assistant is to perform as a second teacher in the classroom. In some way, he helps the educator, and in support measure number 5, there is direct pedagogical activity. The teaching assistant is used in the scope of the full teaching of the pupil, has 36 hours of direct teaching activity. That means, here we are with the direct influence and the direct pedagogical activity in the educational process. As far as the 2030 Strategy is concerned, your amendment also concerns educators in the community and other facilities, leisure teachers and so on. In the 2030 Strategy, there is a chapter in Informal Education and Lifelong Learning, so it would be good to assure this category of teaching staff again how much they are counted on, because not in all groups there are enough qualified workers, of course it depends on the place. And you know that even an assistant educator has some professional activities in those teams. As far as informal education is concerned, it is an important part of the education system today and you know it, and it is also in the strategy that informal and formal education should be linked. Informal education, as you all know, is carried out not only outside of school facilities, but also in educational establishments, that is, in groups, in school clubs and in leisure centres, and there is a requirement for qualified workers. Today, there is a tendency that the competences should be linked. The teams also have their school educational programs approved by the Director. There should now also be a revision of the framework education programmes for interest education, and these people are therefore involved in the training process as well as in the field of interest education, there is the development of knowledge, skills and skills that follow up formal education, usually within one school. This means that there is a need here too - and I ask if we have enough of these other teaching staff in the Czech Republic and how you will deal with this, when these people run out of patience, they will not have sufficient motivation, even financial, and they will just go elsewhere. It's just the plan B. And the connection is supposed to happen, which means that informal education cannot be underestimated. Otherwise there are a little more than 4,000 clubs, there are some 330,000 pupils registered in the clubs, there are about 591, and about 45,000 pupils registered in the school clubs, where it is therefore informal education, but there it follows educational programs in schools, formal education. So I think the teams are doing their big job. I was just sick of the fact that even in the comments under the various articles and statements of this amendment, I also met with the de-honestation of these professions, that the clerk was actually - he was just babysitting before the parent picked him up. But it's not like that! It doesn't work that way in the teams, the group has a clear assignment from the school law and actually from the professions. And that's why I'm saying you couldn't make the communication. That's why you dug up some discord between teaching professions. I would like further assurances from the Minister and, if necessary, from the petitioners regarding the impact on the implementation of this strategy, because you are continuing it. It was approved in 2020 and there is therefore a teacher in defined terms. The concept includes all pedagogical workers under Law No. 563/2004 Coll., on teaching staff and on the amendment of certain laws. That's the definition of government strategy. So that's the question of the terminology, when someone thinks only a teacher in formal education, but someone like that government strategy, actually under a teacher, they're all pedagogical workers who are in Section 2 of the relevant law. Then what is it? [[13.20 hours]] Then I would like assurances, because this strategy also affects problematic regions where there are more socially disadvantaged pupils, you have here "the creation of a model of gradual institutionalisation of specialized positions in schools." It's in the School Support and Management chapter, and you have here at the Ministry stated "it's in realization," which means it's going on. And now there's an amendment where you divide teaching staff into teachers and other specialists, but you don't say how you expect them in terms of pay grade. So maybe some of them are thinking about getting their private counseling done or going to the Ústecký and Karlovy Vary Region, they're just not going to get their own ambulance. And again, you're saying that it's going to be defined, of course, by the positions I've been talking about. Strategic objective number 2 - reducing inequalities in access to quality education, enabling maximum development of the potential of children, pupils and students, joint teaching, promoting the involvement of families through the involvement of teachers, but probably not just teachers, because there will certainly be a whole series of problems that we have discussed here. In the chapter Disparity you have "is in realization, strengthening professional capacity and competence for working with diverse groups of children and pupils, in the activity will be supported. Wages ensuring the possibility of employing special educators, school assistants.' So they're the ones you've just separated from it, and you haven't said what's going to happen to them. Again, as I said before, an analysis will be carried out, that is what you have in the strategy, support pedagogical positions in schools, and there has also been a methodological instruction within this strategy. Then you have "safe environment in schools, development of participation, autonomy, strategic line 1.6." And here is also what you need, as you write, or is in the strategy, and you continue it, "the most frequently solved problems include bad relations between classmates, misdemeanors to school rules, bullying, cybershikan." There is no emphasis on psycho Hygiene, where there are almost no programs for prevention of depression, anxiety, harmful stress and suicide, which is clearly the irreplaceable role of psychologist, school psychologist and, of course, a special educator who helps diagnose pupils. Psychohygiene is needed not only by pupils with a problem, but also by teachers, so it is also important to mention that a psychologist can give crisis intervention to teachers or teachers' assistants, for example, so this is important. As far as the social impact is concerned, we can look at this from two points of view. First of all, as I was saying, families - that is, how do you guarantee the additional functionality of the entire education system if you didn't tell B. This means that there are no special educators no longer, and again, I know from the practice of the Pilsen Region that pedagogical psychology counseling is falling apart and we lack special educators. How do you guarantee to families of children with disabilities, disabilities, and so on, how do you guarantee professional help to keep erudite specialists in that school? So this is definitely important, families and professional school public to assure. Social implications, I've mentioned them before, it's an unfortunate excavation of a little negative relationships and emotions between pedagogical professions, and I think that's a shame. I've already resorted to the conclusion. Thank you for your answers and I think that we really need to discuss the effects of this amendment on the whole system of education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-003-103.u38	Thank you, too. I'm just reminding you, at 13.45, we have fixed voting points. And before I make any further comments, please apologize: the apology is cancelled by Minister Balaš; Mr Hájek apologizes from 13:00 for reasons of work; Vice-President Kovářová from 11.30 to 12.30 for reasons of work; Mr Munzar cancels the whole day for reasons of work; Mrs Pastuchová from 12.30 to 15.00 for health reasons; Mr Wenzl Milan from 16.00 for health reasons; and Minister Rakušan from 12.30 to 14.00 for reasons of work. Two Members are now signed up with a factual remark. First Mrs Zajíčková. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-003-103.u39	It will be difficult now to respond to such a broad speech that my previous speaker here, through Madam President, has really been a speech from Aš to the Tatras. But I would like to emphasise one thing. We're talking about the law here today, the amendment to the law on teaching workers. It's an amendment to the Education Worker Act, which is just responding to everything that has been said here by the previous speaker. It responds to the needs of contemporary society, the change that has occurred in education and throughout society, defines new positions that have not yet been defined in any law. It introduces the position accompanying the teacher, stating the teacher, defines the position directly of the teacher, the school logo and so on and so on. So I would just like to make it very clear here that this is why we are presenting an amendment to the Education Worker Act, which we have been very precise about, very precise discussion, on the school committee, on the subcommittees of various subjects, and we have paid really great attention to it. The proof is that we have many opinions and support opinions from various organisations, associations, platforms. I can name the učitel Live, I can name Eduin, I can name the Teacher Platform and so on, who welcome this novel, they perceive its positives, and I think that it needs to be approved as soon as possible, because it will strengthen the quality of education in our schools, because it is aimed at our teachers, who are the main players in our education. Madam President, she has asked many questions here, asking what impact this amendment will have. I don't have time in two minutes to answer that, but I'm sure we'll get there during the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-003-103.u40	Thank you for keeping time and others with a factual remark are prepared by Mr Brázdil. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-003-103.u41	Thank you for the floor. I'm not an educator, though I'm kind of a lecturer. A lot of questions - here are questions like who's an educator, who's not, who's supposed to get it, who's not supposed to get it. Dear colleagues, colleagues and Minister, I want to help you. You are on your own, and I would now put a procedural motion to interrupt to the presence of Mr.Petr Fiala's supreme teacher, who would certainly help you, and therefore I beg you to vote immediately on the interruption to Mr.Petr Fiala's presence, because there really is a need to answer and not just ask questions. Thank you for the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-003-103.u42	Thank you, I've already begun my work for my colleagues to come to the procedural vote. And since the procedural motion must be put to the vote immediately, then I... So please, Prime Minister Výborný reporting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-003-103.u43	I'm so sorry. By the way, I answered those questions that the Member here said earlier in the proper debate, but I would like to point out to my colleague Brázdil - the Prime Minister, that is public information, is on a foreign business trip. Then I guess you understand that it doesn't quite make sense... [[President: I beg of you to counter-proposal.]] The agreement with the chair of the ANO and other members of the political grémia movement was clear and clear that this law will be discussed in this way. So I'm giving the counterproposal to interrupt this point by 13.35. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-003-103.u44	Thank you. This is Mr. Berki. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-003-103.u45	Madam President, I will allow myself, given that we are at the third reading and there has been enough room to discuss these matters, to raise questions and listen to answers, so I propose only two minutes to calm the situation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-003-103.u46	Thank you. So first of all, we're going to vote on a two-minute suspension. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 108, 171 in attendance, for 5, against 80. The motion was not accepted. Second, the counterproposal, fell from the President of the Excellent, for a break until 13.35. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 109, 172 present, for no one, against 90. The motion was not accepted. And last of all, I give... [[Knocking cards in the desks.]] There's an interest in signing off, so I'm signing you all out, and I'm asking you to sign up with your voting cards. And the last proposal is from Mr Brázdil to interrupt this point in the presence of Prime Minister Fiala. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? [[Noise in the hall.]] Voting number 110, registered 151, in favour of 62, versus 85. The motion was not accepted. We are therefore continuing and are in line with Mrs Berkovcová's further factual remark. [[Ambassador Salvetr reporting for word.]] Please vote. Get on the mic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-003-103.u47	Madam President, I have a problem; I am not good at voting machines.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-003-103.u48	There's no voting device, so I'm going to check you all out again, and I'm going to ask Mr Salvetr if there's still a problem. If that's the case, we're going to have to stop this House from discussing it with the technicians. So I'm declaring a five-minute break until... [[Voice from the diaper: Next to it works.]] It works next door. [[A voice from the diaper, perhaps?]] Just a moment, please. You okay? [[A Member of the Excellent Signals from the bench.]] All right, all right, so we don't have to call a break. So it is Mrs Berkovcová's turn to make a point of fact, I see her, yes. [[The noise in the room doesn't stop.]] Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-003-103.u49	Thank you for the floor. I'm just gonna get a quick response to the lady of the house. Zajíčková about the new position note. Yes, the amendment introduces new positions such as the listing and accompanying teacher - and they are, in fact, one of the few light points of the whole amendment, but these proposed changes could be implemented in a much simpler way, such as by amending the decree or the government's regulation. This concerns the very new positions stating and accompanying the teacher, because so far no jobs have been directly part of the law and have only been in the decree. For example, the positions of a school psychologist or a school special educator are defined only in the decree, and yet both positions are financed from the state budget. Similarly, the class teacher's position was not part of the law. This is also new now, mentioned only by the Government's regulation, but its financing was provided under the so-called special supplement. [[The noise in the room doesn't stop.]] The Education Worker Act did not mention the position of a guidance counselor, which is associated with a 250-hour study.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-003-103.u50	I'm sorry, Madam. I would like to - of course I will read you the time later - but ask colleagues to keep their voice down, leave the O.R. if they want to do anything. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-003-103.u51	Thank you. So picking three jobs out of many and embedding them into the law seems unconceptionable, although nothing against these positions, I support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-003-103.u52	Thank you. [[The noise in the hall continues.]] And please, once again, colleagues and colleagues to keep their conversations down or move them into the lobby. With a factual remark, Minister Jurečka is now registered. But the minister seems to be absent, so he's failing. So now, in the general debate, Mrs Mádlová. [[From the news desk off the mic: It hasn't been logged out.]] She's already been there. Unfortunately, the previous management meeting did not delete, but now Mr Rais should be. Is that okay? [[From the newsstand: Yes.]] In that case, please once again, my fellow Members, let us speak, and I am just pointing out, for everyone and for the honourable Member, that we have a fixed electoral block at 13.45, so I may have to interrupt it if it lasts longer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-003-103.u53	Madam President, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today's third reading of the amendment to the Education Worker Act, the amendment that was to be the flagship of this government, the amendment that, according to the education unions, was to be a nice story with a nice ending for the regional education segment. What, then, is it today? There is no nice end, and today this novel is driving school unionists into thinking about strikes. I would like to begin by pointing out that the previous government of the YES movement has fulfilled its promise to teachers and non-regional education teachers. And how does the coalition government solve this problem today? When the government presented a trust request to Members, it promised in its programming statement 130 per cent of the average gross wage to all employees of pedagogical and non-teaching staff, however, left aside. Although we repeatedly pointed out this situation, the financial situation of non-teaching workers, nothing happened. More or less, the presented promise shrunk in real life to guarantee salaries only for teachers. Teachers, assistants or school psychologists, also belonging to teaching staff, are sharping up. We've heard that before. We will certainly hear from the representatives of the government coalition that this change and addition only to teachers is entirely in line with the programme statement, but I believe that is a lie, because the only programming statement with which this government has gained confidence is the one with which it has come before the House. The March document of this year, which the government calls updating the programming declaration, is indeed, in many ways, as has already been said here, a piece of paper. This is no imaginary agreement between Members, since the Chamber of Deputies could not decide on the approval of these amendments, and it is no longer the fulfilment of the treaty with citizens who have decided on the basis of entirely different promises of the government coalition in the ballot box. In fact, in this regard, I can congratulate the absent Prime Minister, through Madam President, because he will be the first academic manager to meet the government's plans at 100 percent, only if, before any government failure, the government adjusts its programming statement as it has now done. A lot has been said about the situation in wage policy on the committee - and finally, here too, I would point out basically what I said in the remark, this is the publication by renowned colleagues, Mr Münich and Mr Smolka, which is called Teacher's Platforms in 2021: The peak achieved and what next? In the introduction of the text, I stress the fact that the government of the ANO movement fulfilled its programming declaration, the increase in salaries of 150 per cent for teachers due to the wage level of 2017. It was a highly monitored parameter and so did gentlemen, independent citizens, basically saying that we fulfilled what we promised. At the same time, the authors say that the current government is drifting away from its programming statement, taking into account only the salaries of primary school teachers, did not consider the cost of teaching staff of kindergartens and neglected the costs of non-teaching workers such as administrative and operational equipment. [[13.40 hours]] Today, it is clear that the situation in education cannot be managed by this government at all levels. Recently, there were protests by universities that criticize the lack of funding for this segment, where there are 10 billion Czech crowns missing. In 2022, we tabled amendments to reduce this deficit. The rejection of the ANO motion was, in particular, because it was the opposition's proposals, not for some rational reason, because everyone, including the Minister of Education, knows about the underfinancing of universities, which he himself asked for higher education. Similarly, you have behaved arrogantly and disdainfully with more than 50 opposition amendments. I ask, then, where did education go as a priority, how could we have been read in the programming declaration? Basically, it is obvious that we are moving away from the OECD countries as far as universities are concerned, the decline is from 0.6 to 0.45 percent of GDP, so it is hard to get close to that average, but if we could bend averages as well as promises in the programming declaration... In that remark, I said that the amendment has many positive features. Personally, I consider it a positive discussion on accreditations of basically non-teachers or study programmes for non-teachers who will teach in secondary schools and primary schools. I consider this to be very important, because in the past period we have been dragging it around and there has been no consensus. This is where we agreed, and, of course, thanks for that. And the salaries we've been pulling around for over an hour, they've basically been added by the pirát back then. I believe that... personally, I consider the proposed new legislation concerning school logos inappropriate. On this issue, I beg you to support my amendment, the 1442, which has been discussed with universities and which addresses the situation. If we do not want to jeopardise the more than 20-year tradition of education in this field, when our universities are reaching European peaks at the moment, I think it is necessary to support the amendment here and not the proposals of my colleague Philipp and others mentioned in the letters F1 to V4. I repeat, this amendment D1, which I put in there, was created in cooperation with universities dedicated to the education of school logos and which are top-notch. Ladies and gentlemen, if I sum up my speech and repeat what was said at the beginning, I consider the bill here to be a loss to all. At this point, it is not only me for whom a good standard cannot be considered, which would bring stability and positive development in regional education. One of the major shortcomings of this law is that I consider the proposal to increase wages to only parts of school teachers. We've been talking about this for a long time, and on the committee, too. Therefore, my conclusion personally is that I propose that we return the bill's proposal back to second reading so that we can remedy the financial problem here and find some consensus. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-003-103.u54	Yes, thank you, I'm also taking note of your proposal, Mr. Ambassador. With a point of fact, Mr Berki wants to respond, which may still be possible. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-003-103.u55	Madam President, thank you. You know, I'm normally trying to be consensual, but here I'm gonna take one nagging remark. I wonder what we need to do with committee meetings when some of them wake up here at third reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-003-103.u56	Now there is no factual point. And one more, but we really have the last minute. Mr. Juchelka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-003-103.u57	Why, Mr. Berki? For one simple reason, through you, Madam President, because not everyone is part of the Committee on Education.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-003-103.u58	You've kept time, but we'll still try to make Mr. Berki's point of order. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-003-103.u59	I believe that committee meetings are public, and anyone can come in and ask anybody.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-003-103.u60	There have been factual remarks, colleagues, but now it is Mr Vondrák's turn and we have really last seconds, so let's see if we can make it. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-003-103.u61	But that's the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-003-103.u62	Mr. Juchelka... yes, it's not even possible anymore. So we have 13.45 when there are fixed electoral points, and I am interrupting the discussion of a government bill amending Act No. 563/2004 Sb., i.e. the Education Act, paragraph 103. As Members and Members are enrolled, including factual remarks, we will continue this point next time. Therefore, I will now begin the discussion of the point
