ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u1	137. Oral inhalation which are addressed to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, the Government of the Czech Republic and other members of the Government. Today, with the participation of the verifier, the ranking of Members was drawn, in which they will perform and submit oral interviews first to Prime Minister Petr Fiala or the Government of the Czech Republic, from 14.30 to 16.00, to other members of the Government from 16 to 18.00. The lists of Members according to the winning order have been distributed to you in the benches. I would like to draw attention to all Members of the Government and to the fact that, if the intervention on Prime Minister Petr Fiala is exhausted, the intercession on other members of the Government will immediately begin. Before I give the floor to Mrs Iveta Štefanová, who has won the first interview, I will add my apologies: Mrs Opltová Michaela apologizes from 15 o'clock for work reasons, Mr Pavel Staněk from 14.30 for work reasons, Mr Špičák Julius from 12 o'clock for work reasons and Mrs Helena Válková from 14.30 for work reasons. I am now giving the floor to Mrs Iveta Štefanová, who was drawn in the first place to give an oral interview to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Petr Fiala. Mr Radek Vondráček will be ready. Madam, your time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u2	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, dear Prime Minister, last year we experienced a sharp increase in energy, which has hit all households and companies. It's late, and I don't think it's enough, but eventually, the government responded by putting a price on it. But the level of this ceiling is not the subject of my interpellation today. Since most customers have or have had the price fixed, this was reflected in invoices gradually over the course of the year with the exception of a group of customers who paid for energy on the basis of exchange prices. While energy prices were skyrocketing last year, we now see a drop in prices on the stock exchanges. But who would like to profit from the decline in energy prices is unlucky. Since this year, the government has banned the conclusion of spot rates for new customers from small customers, i.e. small companies and households. If the customer does not have a flow measurement installed, the supplier of gas or electricity shall not close the spot product with it during the period of validity of the price ceiling. The government has broken down prices, but energy prices have been falling for weeks. Currently, the price of electricity is up to CZK 1,000 and gas up to CZK 800 lower than the government's ceilings. In the period of price ceiling, the spot rate is theoretically the most advantageous possible solution from the customer's point of view for at least the whole year 2023. If the price of energy goes up, the customer will pay only up to the ceiling. However, if it falls, the customer immediately saves and pays a price lower than the ceiling. I ask, Prime Minister, why did the government ban these spot rates? Why does it put small customers at a disadvantage at a time of favourable energy price developments?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u3	Thank you. Prime Minister Petr Fiala has the floor. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u4	Madam, thank you for the question. She is important and, above all, it is important to have the opportunity to explain the situation, because it is a very technical issue and some interpretations that also appear in the public space are simplified. We are preventing an unexpected rise in the price of electricity for citizens by this step, because these tariffs are beneficial only in theory for citizens who do not have a flow meter. I'm going to try to explain in time that I have at my disposal, how it works and what the problem is. In theory, the Spot Rate works by paying electricity according to its current price on the stock exchange at the time it consumes it. This changes in individual hours, so for example at night is lower, the price increases significantly in the morning, then falls over noon, afternoons and early evenings rise and falls again at night. The consumer, who is informed about how this is going, can theoretically adjust its consumption to the course of the price, that is, more consumed at night, less at peak and so on - theoretically. In theory, because if the consumer does not have a passing gauge, it does not matter how electricity consumes because its deduction takes place only once a year. The current electric meter is a type of electric meter that measures consumption by time, but most of us only have that consumption deducted once a year. But if the electricity supplier does not know how or when the consumer consumed the electricity, he is not able to write that behaviour into the electricity account, so what happens is that the supplier takes the household consumption type chart and applies it to anyone who has a spot rate. Then it doesn't matter how the consumer behaved. If the consumer has a course gauge - for example, all those who have acquired photovoltaics - then it is really beneficial and can save money. But they were not affected by this measure. Some more facts. In order to save people the spot rate compared to the price charged, the average price for 365 previous days would have to fall below EUR 150 per megawatt hour - not below 200, but below 150, because the ceiling price is final for consumers. You can't get to that average price in the last 365 days, and the assumption that you can do it next year is also small. On the contrary, there is a risk of price increases for people who have such tariffs. Thus, the spot rates are more risky to the customer than fixed tariffs. Yes, they may be advantageous under certain circumstances, but there is a risk that they will also have to pay several hundred euros in case of high prices. Therefore, the spot rates can only be recommended to informed, informed customers. This is similar to the situation in financial markets where funds must offer financial risk instruments only to properly informed investors who are able to act accordingly, and the customer must prove it. Therefore, in order to protect customers and consumers, the government decided to limit this type of tariff. Of course, an educated customer can exchange his electric meter for a continuous one and then, as I explained here, he can take advantage of all the benefits of such a tariff. But if he doesn't have a flow meter, and if he doesn't adjust his daily consumption based on how stock prices evolve, it's extremely risky for him. Many customers do not know this and the way in which electricity suppliers calculate it can and often is, as I have shown on this particular example, particularly for citizens at this time. That is why the government has taken this measure, which is certainly responsible, and, on the contrary, protects our citizens, customers, consumers, from the sharp rise in prices from suppliers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u5	I thank the President for his time and ask the honourable Member if he is still interested in the supplementary question? [[No.]] It's not like that. Mr Radek Vondráček, who was drawn in second place, will therefore speak with the next interview and Mr králíček will be prepared. Your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u6	Thank you. vážený Prime Minister, in recent days, the government coalition has rejected a transparent debate on censorship and government propaganda in the Czech Republic. You voted for it most of the time. I am therefore taking advantage of my limited space within the framework of the interpelation, and I would like to tell you that the Czech public is very, very concerned about the various steps taken by the government, which is beginning to seriously abuse the concept of disinformation and, under the cape of the fight against hybrid threats, implement measures threatening freedom of speech in the Czech Republic and uncoveredly, and tries to manipulate public opinion for its benefit and against the democratically elected parliamentary minority for taxpayers' money. In other words, government propaganda has been reborn, swaying the word misinformation, while simply trying to suppress unpleasant information for them. The main source of concern to the Czech public is basically the internal KRIT and we all remember how dangerous the interior could be in times of non-freedom or even in Austria, and then it is legislative proposals in the area of combating misinformation. According to KRIT Director Honásek's explanation, KRIT is part of a whole that is managed by the government's government agent and individual departments are already being created on individual ministries. The government coalition has rejected this debate, and I therefore ask you: Who and when has decided to establish this whole system? What's his personnel composition? How many people are there? Are they full-time people under service law or outsiders? How are they chosen? Who approves their performances? How are public funds effectively spent in this context? What is this whole fight against misinformation being paid for? [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] Are millions of crowns to be spent on media, nonprofit organizations and so on? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u7	Thank you, and the Prime Minister has the floor. Before he gets to the counter, I'll load two more apologies. Mr. Heller Šimon from 14:30 for family reasons and Mr. Strýček Jiří from 15:00 for health reasons. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u8	Dear Member, first a simple statement. The government does not limit freedom of speech, no freedom nor suppress it, we do not take any steps to do so. These are very strong claims, and I expect you to prove them, too. Disinformation debate, that's a different subject, I'd be happy to lead with you. I think that we really need to have such a debate because disinformation has become a big problem, and we need to deal with them and the debate about what they mean, what they bring. Disinformation, among other things, also becomes an instrument of fighting in the presidential campaign. They are used by both the chairman of the ANO movement and Andrej SPD candidate Jaroslav Bašta, which I am sorry because they are constitutional officials, and they should be able to distinguish facts from lies and not spread them among citizens. [[Applause, banging the benches on the left.]] I'm talking, for example, about the witty iconographics that Andrej Babiš has been spreading on social networks, where government officials say they support him. Of course, no such thing is happening. Or the letters that the YES movement sends to its supporters, where it warns against the supposed steps of government, and promises to save citizens from them. But the only way we're facing this disinformation, and I want to stress that here three times, is to fight them and bring the facts and the truth. No prosecution, no repressive action taken by the government. We never would have thought of that. I'm just thinking about the old saying, "I judge you by myself," because our government would never do anything like that. And I'm taking this opportunity to disprove the facts that are here to give the facts that you're spreading. So on some of the things that the YES movement sends out to citizens, facts. Our government has increased pensions most in the history of this country. During our reign, the average monthly pension increased by CZK 2,500. That's right. We will continue to raise pensions, there will be no threat to the elderly. Valorisation takes place in January pensions and it is likely that further valorisation will take place during the year. We can assure the elderly that pensions will continue to increase, grow, and help them cope with inflation. By the way, inflation. Its growth stopped in December. Annual growth in December inflation is zero. The government is planning pension reform, that is true, because previous governments have failed to move it, but the aim of the pension reform is to provide current twenty and thirty-year-olds with dignified pensions at a time when they retire. Reform will not in any way affect existing pensioners or those who retire in the next few years. Yes, the government wants to cut costs. We succeeded last year, where we reduced expenditure by CZK 68 billion compared to the original assumption. In doing so, we increased pensions and helped citizens with energy prices. And so I could go on. I could talk here about the fact that our tax laws will not in any way increase taxes and burden citizens, cost prices, as you repeatedly talk about it, so I could disprove the facts of one of your false information after another. And I do this in the context of a political conflict, I consider it right and, of course, you have the opportunity to spread the misinformation you want. I'm just sorry that you're going down as constitutional agents. And now some other facts on the question of freedom of speech. In contrast to the past, all journalists have the opportunity to attend press conferences of the Czech Government, no one is denied access to information about the government's activities. The Czech Republic has placed its 20th place in an index evaluating the level of freedom of the press worldwide, which is an improvement against 2021, a very significant improvement, where we were on the 40th place of 180 reviews. [[Time, Prime Minister.]] And from European countries, we are 13th place, 9th place among EU countries. [[Time, Prime Minister, I'm sorry.]] This is an international evaluation of freedom of speech in the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u9	Thank you for keeping time. I ask if the Member is interested in an additional question? That's right. Your time, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u10	Prime Minister, your information is not misinformation. Learn to work with that in the first case. [[Let's hear it for the left.]] Second, feel the conscience of how many of my questions you have now answered. I asked about the financial plan, I asked how many people do it. What about the 100 million for the friendly media? What about the 50 million for nonprofits? What about 50 million to buy public space? Zero, you haven't answered anything. And this Honásek claims that individual departments are created at individual ministries and KRIT spits its materials. And I'm judging you? It says here: "From KRIT: The media do not pay attention to the subject of illegal migration, which gives space to actively shape and shape them. Because of the flooding of more substantial questions, it cannot be expected to push them massively, but it cannot be ruled out that they will be abused by newspapers and television owned or close to the ANO movement and also by the disinformation scene." This is for taxpayers' money, what your KRIT does. [[The President. Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] Is this a joke, or is this for the government's demise, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u11	Thank you. The Prime Minister is interested in an answer. Prime Minister, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u12	If you consider me to be an unpleasant fact, Mr President, the information that I or other representatives of the government coalition support in the elections of Andrej Babiš is not an unpleasant fact to me. That's just a lie, and as such, it needs to be called, if you get out here ten more times, you're not gonna change that. And that's the problem. This isn't about me being uncomfortable. This is not about different political attitudes on some of the things that are happening in the Czech Republic. This is simply about spreading the truth, and that is something we have the right to resist. And to your argument. Nothing's happening to anybody. I'm just pointing it out. No action to prevent and prevent this is simply not going to happen. To your questions: yes, we are preparing some documents based on an action plan approved by your government. I like to claim this because the fight against misinformation and other hybrid threats is one of the tasks of the state, and it is good that continuity exists in this matter. [[14.50 hours]] The Ministry of the Interior prepares a law that could face hybrid action in the area of disinformation, inter-ministerial commentary proceedings or at some stage of the approval process there are three documents. One is an analysis of the readiness of the Czech Republic to face a serious disinformation wave, and there is a proposal for a system of strategic communication prepared by the Ministry of Defence on the basis of an action plan of the National Strategy leading to hybrid action. And then there's the action plan for leading disinformation, which is prepared by you mentioned government media agent and misinformation. [[Time, Prime Minister.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u13	Thank you for keeping time. It is now Mr králíček's turn to interpel, Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová will prepare herself. Ambassador, your time, two minutes. And I beg you to keep your time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u14	Hello. Dear Prime Minister, colleagues. I'm turning to an interview that deals with the appointment of members of the Intelligence Commission. As of January 2018, a parliamentary intelligence control committee was to be established to oversee the activities and operation of intelligence services. It is true that it has not succeeded - mainly because of the criteria that were set rather strictly at the time - in the past governments, where the amendment to the Military Intelligence Act has yet to be amended, and it has become the subject of frequent criticism by some of your current ministers about the government's inability to fulfil this commission and what makes sense at all. We are now more than a year of your government, and I wanted to ask you how you have progressed in occupying this commission, in which you were clear at the time of your opposition. Moreover, at the end of the last government's term, a list of ten names was made available. Your MPs got him, too, and you could choose from him. I want to ask you how you've progressed in this area, and what's your vision?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u15	Thank you. The Prime Minister has the floor. And again, before he arrives, I will make an apology: Mr Sadovskýý Petr apologizes within 11 hours for work reasons. Prime Minister, your time is five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u16	Dear Member, thank you for the question. I also believe that the body of independent control of the intelligence services of the Czech Republic is an important matter and that we should occupy it only so that everyone can be sure that the intelligence services do not violate laws by their activities in the Czech Republic and do not interfere with fundamental rights and freedoms. We know that the intelligence services have been exposed in the past to criticisms by some constitutional agents, which I therefore do not consider appropriate, but it is good for the overall atmosphere and for the certainty that this authority's control can deliver to the public and to all of us. To avoid the fact that I may not have answered you, if we were to get into some kind of temporal distress, I say right to the start that we intend to occupy the organ and we want to do it this year, during this year. If I say this year, somebody might say, "What's taking so long?" Well, it will take a long time precisely because, despite mitigating the conditions for the selection of candidates to the authorities of independent intelligence control - I merely remind you that the condition of legal education has been abolished, the Government does not need to propose to the House twice the number of candidates occupied and so on - the nomination process is complex, especially because the candidate must submit a valid certificate of the individual for the level of secrecy strictly secret. Such a certificate, frankly, does not have many people in the Czech Republic, and even of those candidates or people that we have potentially considered, many people do not have this certificate. Those who have and have been addressed so for various reasons not married to this body. So there is also an objective problem, which simply means that we are about to select the expected number of members of the independent control body in the near future, and we already know that there will be people there who will be top secret, who will be asking for this degree, and even if they have a priority clearance solution from the Supreme Audit Office, it will just take nine months plus minus. That's why I'm saying we're going to take over this year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u17	Thank you. I'll ask... [[The Prime Minister asks, outside the microphone, whether he has exceeded the time.]] Time's been turned on, but it's really messing with the device. Sorry, techs are trying to get rid of problems, so we're gonna improvise a little bit. You still have a minute or 30, if you want. Is the Member interested in an additional question? If so, Mr. Ambassador...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u18	My question was more about the organ being created in some sort of situation. Today you actually approved the establishment of a national advisor or national security advisor, so I was wondering if you were planning any changes, given that this position was created, any connotations about it, or if you are not thinking of changing in any way, did the committee regroup precisely in relation to the fact that a completely new position of the National Security Advisor was created?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u19	Thank you. The Prime Minister is interested in an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u20	Yes, this is certainly an important shift in the management and improvement of intelligence activities in the Czech Republic. We have indeed set up a National Security Advisor, which is performed by Tomáš Pojar. The counselor's role is coordinating, and I think there was something missing. In the end, we had it in the programming statement, we want to introduce another step into this position legislatively, but I still think it is not inconsistent or replacing the national security advisor here with this supervisory body. I believe that for all the reasons I said at the beginning, such a supervisory body should have the Czech Republic. Let me just remind you that for the purpose of carrying out the control activity, for example, the authority has an independent control as set up, the right to require from the intelligence service all necessary information on the activities related to the control carried out and so on and so forth. These are things which, on the one hand, strengthen citizens' confidence that nothing illegal, risky from the point of view of security can and will happen, but on the other hand, this does not really allow the condition to be reduced strictly secret to those who are in this institution. In the end, even the National Security Advisor has to have a top-secret clearance. So I still think the way the security community set it up and how we finally approved it here, that it's the right thing to do, and we're going to try to occupy the organ. [[The President: "Time, Prime Minister.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u21	Thank you. It is now Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová's turn to prepare Mrs Pošarová. Madame, you have the floor, but the timer is not working, I warn you. I mean, that's... that's how it works out there, but on your desk at the speaker's desk... yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u22	Dear Prime Minister. I would...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u23	I'm sorry, I'm gonna cancel it out for you and we're gonna start over. So, just a second, if we can hold on, I'm pushing for two minutes. It's only running on the top of the board if the MP can navigate. I'll give you 10 seconds to go, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u24	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister. In the introduction, I would like to remind you that we are now in the interpelations to the Prime Minister, and I would like to make today, because, as Mr Vondráček did, at his interpellation, I hope that we will not be renaming it to the Prime Minister today - to the presidential candidates. [[15.00 hours]] Prime Minister, you have 17 ministers, you already have 13 government officials, you have a new law of service that gives you countless political representatives. You're responsible for the functioning of the government, you chose the government. Why - and this is my question - as a government you do not go to regions, as it was in the past, when the entire government with all the ministers came to us and because of this we have a police, military school in the Karlovy Vary Region, we have three sections of D6 being repaired after 20 years of the Imperial Spa, did investor BMW come to us? Second, if you go to the ministry for inspection visits, why are the inspection visits in the office, at coffee and at the table, why aren't they in the field? Why aren't they at work offices, why aren't they in hospitals, why aren't they in particular problems? And last: How do you address and appeal to the Minister of Health, who is unable to provide enough medicine for our children and citizens? I'd like to say that drugs aren't just in pharmacies, but they're not even in hospitals, and the condition is really serious, believe me. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u25	Thank you, and the Prime Minister has the floor. Prime Minister, five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u26	Madam, I'm sure you may not like what I have to say about your interview, but I am responding as I think it is appropriate, and it is not an intervention on the presidential candidate, I am not a presidential candidate, I am simply responding to questions. And if there's a question that concerns disinformation, I have to describe here what's going on in the area of misinformation so that we can explain some of the concepts and some of the procedures and we can, together - and I think that's our job - to combat misinformation. When it comes to government trips to the region, I don't know exactly what you mean because our members or members of our government go to the region, go to individual institutions and talk to their representatives, talk to citizens, and do a lot of this. If you mean, and I assume, the so-called government exit meetings in individual regions, so that the entire government would go to the regions and hold a government meeting there at some point, we did not do that because of what the government was facing last year, and also because we had a Presidency that is therefore very demanding on the activities of ministers and that everyone could be in the Czech Republic at the right time, which I consider reasonable at the exit meeting. I want to assure you that this year we are already planning an exit meeting of the government, because just like you, I consider that the government will meet not only in Prague, but several times a year in one of the regions, and therefore it has the opportunity not only to close in the office or in some meeting room and to have a government meeting, but also to talk to representatives of the region from different levels, I consider this useful. So, yes, in this respect, the government will implement the exit meeting this year. I do not quite think that the development of the region depends on whether or not a government meeting is taking place there, and that is a matter of opinion, and we can certainly discuss this elsewhere. I will touch in my answer or focus my answer on the current problem of medication. I want to tell everyone that in the area of antibiotics at this point, there is no danger that the patient will not receive the treatment he needs. In the case of a missing primarily prescribed product, effective alternatives are available. The situation around children's antipyretics has improved, thousands of packaging and hundreds of thousands of packaging have been delivered in recent weeks, and tens of thousands should arrive by the end of January. The situation of the deficiency of penicillin antibiotics also succeeds in stabilization, in the next week an extraordinary dose will come and during this week it has run out, some supplies of other medicines have arrived in the Czech Republic. The lack of antibiotics is an objectively existing problem, it is largely due to a higher illness than is usually common in these months. Part of the lack of antibiotics is due to the failure of production and missing components of pharmaceuticals or packaging material, especially in Southeast Asia, and that deficiency is ultimately throughout Europe. What does the Department of Health do? The Ministry of Health is very intensively negotiating with producers about speeding up deliveries, which are planned for a later period. It deals with distributors in order to import medicines from other countries of the European Union, but also from the United States, Canada and Australia. Negotiations are taking place with companies that supply pharmaceuticals to the Czech market. Of course, the Ministry of Health has a much smaller space, a very minimum room for intervention in free-market medicines, where it can really only appeal to the responsible behaviour of all and not to create unnecessary supplies for citizens. The production of medicinal products is planned long in advance and cannot be increased from one day to the next week to the next week. However, the drugs, as I was talking about them, antibiotics and other important things, that's where the steps were taken. [[Time, Prime Minister.]] The problem is that, unfortunately, it concerns the whole of Europe.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u27	Thank you. Do I ask the honourable Member if he is interested in an additional question? Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u28	Thank you for your answers, Prime Minister. I must say, therefore, that regarding the government's exit meeting to the regions, and that you do not think that when the entire government comes to the region, that it should have any effect on development, I cannot agree with that, because when I was also in the position of the governor, the whole government came to us, and I must say that the Prime Minister was the one who listened to the problems of the region, and then they handed out, if necessary, the tasks to individual ministers, and the results really showed up. So I think I know that you had a Presidency, but I think it's sad that you've been in government for over a year now and that you haven't even been in one region as a government yet. These regions need help, they need concrete help, and you should go there. About the drugs - I've been performing here in the House, and I have to tell you, I've got a swamped cell phone of all the drugs we're short of these days. [[President: Time, Madame.]] So it's a big problem, and I think you should deal with the Minister of Health immediately. [[President: Madam...]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u29	The Prime Minister is interested in an answer. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u30	I'd hate to have some undignified discussion to hold our own words. Once again, I am planning an exit meeting of government in individual regions for this year and I consider it useful. On the other hand, I believe that the development of regions and listening to the needs of the region are not dependent on whether or not there is an exit meeting. We are in contact with the authorities, representatives of the region, but not only with them, as well as representatives of other institutions, citizens, and we are quite well aware of what the problems of individual regions are. Finally, one of the aims of our government is to be able to balance the large differences that exist between regions in the Czech Republic in some areas, and also at random in the field of education or in other matters, because this may threaten the quality of life in the future, the competitiveness of the Czech Republic. But I really understand and acknowledge the symbolic significance, even practical to some extent of the exit meeting in a particular region. Finally, it is also an expression that the government is intensely interested in the situation as a whole. That is why, as I am telling you, government meetings in some regions are planned for this year. We'll do it several times a year. I think it'll be useful for everyone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u31	Thank you for keeping time. It is now Mrs Pošarová's turn to intervene and Mr Kukla will be prepared. Madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u32	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, I am addressing you in the matter of your announced changes in the Government's programming declaration. Recently, you and your media ministers have repeatedly said that there will be serious changes in the government's programming statement this year, a crucial government document that has given you the confidence of the House, but above all, the trust of citizens, because the government's programming declaration contains the main pre-election promises of government parties. So now you want to redefine this document and add to it the things that you have withheld from voters and Members, or you promised the exact opposite of them, such as raising certain taxes. The Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura spoke a few days ago about the adjustment of value added tax in the sense of introducing only two VAT rates bands, with a reduced rate of 10 per cent being completely abolished or increased, and that many items, goods and services will be transferred from the lowest 10% rate to a rate of 13 and 14 per cent, respectively to the highest, 21% rate. From the nature of things, it would have to be about drugs, water or sewers, i.e. commodities whose price is rising steeply - and already - and the increase in the tax rate would make them even more expensive, with the basic cost of living of citizens, daily needs. Dear Prime Minister, please tell us and the citizens directly what steps your government intends to take in tax policy in the near future, what taxes you intend to raise or what taxes you are considering. In addition to thinking about raising VAT, ministers also spoke about increasing certain excise taxes, real estate taxes, or increasing personal income tax by increasing tax progression for part of employees and businessmen with higher incomes. What taxes does your government intend to raise, and why? [[President: Time, Madame.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u33	Thank you. Now the Prime Minister has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u34	Madam, first of all, I want to reassure you that the government is not preparing any new programming declarations. We have prepared a programming statement that contains the key priorities of the government, which contains a timetable, and with that we have come before the Chamber of Deputies, and on this basis we have also gained confidence, we are aware of that. But for every programming statement, for every document, for every concept, and everyone who has experience with such documents at any institution, happens after the first year and after each year, some updating, evaluation. We must all look at what still needs to be adjusted, for example in terms of time plans, timetables, etc. It's responsible, it's logical, it has to be, and I don't even know why there should be any special discussion about this or why anyone should be surprised. Finally, our programming statement, or our coalition agreement, contains a commitment that after a year we will look at what is needed and how the programme statement needs to be adapted to the current situation. Moreover - and I think everyone understands this - we prepared the programming declaration in a different time. We were preparing it at a time when we could not know, and no one could know that we would face the consequences of Russian aggression on Ukraine, that Europe would be exposed to all possible direct and indirect influences and impacts. And from this point of view, I think it is right that we should look at the programming statement, look at what our proposed timetable is realistic, which step, if necessary, will not be implemented, which we need to modify in some way. That's what I think is honest, right, logical, and I really can't imagine a responsible government wouldn't do that. I have no information that we are going to put something in the programming statement that we did not promise to citizens, and if any of our colleagues came forward with it, I certainly would not agree with that. So in the end, there's no way that's gonna happen. With regard to the various proposals that appear in the public space, that is correct, because it must be part of the public debate that different ideas appear, that they are being discussed. I even consider it right that even the political parties that are part of the government coalition highlight some of their priorities and the critical situation that we are all facing - and we are faced with several crises that may be reflected in the great demands on the state budget - so, in this situation, we are all simply looking for a way to consolidate public finances, so that the spending of the state is not so high that we do not all suffer such a large deficit, which, therefore, is mainly burdened by future generations. And there are various suggestions. Proposals come from individual parties to the government coalition, but above all, there are proposals made by experts. The National Economic Council of the Government has presented an entire catalogue of topics on which we should take steps to consolidate public finances, including tax regulation, and then there are proposals from other experts who are discussed in the public space. Let us not defend ourselves, the debate is good, let us consider the proposals, but please nicely, that does not mean that the government will come up with it. What the government will come up with will result from our revision of the programming statement, from the debate that we will have over it, and from what we agree that we need to do in order to achieve the objective announced by the Minister of Finance, which is to reduce the structural deficit by CZK 70 billion. That is what I add, and it has been said repeatedly: without significant negative effects on citizens, and this is important. With regard to the tax burden that you specifically mentioned, a change in structure can be considered. We have also had such adjustments, such changes in our programming declaration, on the basis of which we have gained confidence, but what remains and what I want to confirm is that the overall tax burden on citizens will not increase. [[Time, Prime Minister.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u35	Thank you. I ask the honourable Member if he is interested in an additional question? It's not like that. Mr Kukla is in session with another interview and Mrs Schillerová will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u36	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a question for the Prime Minister. It's about the Highlands County budget. When we approved the budget of the Vysočina Region, I found out that in the chapter Others, the Vysočina Region has reserved half a billion crowns - yes, you can hear well - for energy. The Vysočina region has competitive spot prices for both electricity and gas, which means that at the moment, of course, it buys some commodities already under the ceiling prices. The individual contribution organizations and the region have budgets made for the ceiling prices. That means the Vysočina Region probably doesn't trust the government and has a reserve of half a billion crowns. I would like to ask you, Prime Minister, whether the ceiling will last a whole year, whether you plan to last a whole year for municipalities, for regions, for citizens, for companies, because at this point we have half a billion crowns. They're your colleagues who designed it for the budget. Apparently, the government sent out bad signals, some colleagues didn't understand, and we have half a billion crowns covered by tax revenues that we can't use. So I promised to ask you here so that we could possibly make budgetary arrangements and use the money where necessary. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u37	Thank you, and the Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u38	Thank you for the question. You will probably understand that I do not know in detail the budget considerations in the Vysočina Region, but the case you are describing can be based on quite rational reflection on how the regions will buy the energy or parts of the energy they need. And if, for example, the regional leadership decided to buy energy in the spot market, assuming that prices would go down, it would have to have some kind of reserve for that. Such a procedure would indeed have a rational core, but I do not know, of course, how considerations are conducted in the Vysočina Region or what contracts and what suppliers are there. As far as the question you explicitly asked is concerned, yes, we assume that prices will be covered throughout the year, for all those for whom we have done this, that is for households, i.e. for citizens, for small and medium companies as well as for the extent to which it is done for large companies. Of course, this also applies to self-government, it applies to the public sector, or to all those who provide public service, regardless of whether they are legal, private or other persons. In general, I would like to say to the prices that, of course, this remains a problem. On the other hand, when we look at some statistics, we see positive trends. For example, when you look at the evaluations or statistics available, the price of electricity in the Czech Republic in October fell most from the whole of the European Union, by 38 percent, which undoubtedly played a role in the forgiveness of the renewable energy charge and the cost-saving tariff. The price of electricity on the markets is also falling, which will also gradually be reflected in the impact on electricity prices for citizens and for other entities, including regions. However, this will take place gradually, as growth gradually took place, because most traders who then deliver, buy or deliver deliveries through gradual purchases. There are several reasons why prices are falling. The greatest influence is the return of some decommissioned sources, the extension of the operation of nuclear power plants in Germany, Belgium. This reduces market concerns. The reduction in gas prices also has a great influence, which is also largely the result of the joint measures that we have taken at European level, in which the Czech Republic has played an important part in its Presidency role. I think that also that new gas capacities are being built, whether they are new LNG terminals, alternative sources of suppliers and other and other things, contributing to the calming of the market and contributing to price reductions. As far as national measures are concerned, we see here that what the government has done - the ceiling on the energy prices that you have mentioned here, the austerity tariff - also contributes to reducing inflation. According to the Czech Statistical Office, consumer prices did not show monthly growth in December compared to November, which is very positive, and electricity prices fell by 21 percent year on year due to the austerity tariff. On the contrary, where countries have chosen a different type of regulation, there is a leap increase after the release of regulation. For example, Hungary may be an example. And I think what we've chosen, the path we've chosen, is the right path. It turns out that in the long term it can provide affordable prices for electricity and other energy to Czech citizens, Czech companies, but also to self-government and to all those who provide public service.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u39	Thank you for keeping time. Will I ask the honourable Member if he is interested in an additional question? That's right. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u40	Thank you for your answer, Prime Minister. But a brief answer was enough for me. I was asking if you'd guarantee it, those ceiling prices, and not assume it. You can assume, but it would be enough for me here to tell your public promise that the ceiling at least for the regions, for the municipalities, will be for the citizens for the whole year 2023. And the half-billionth - the budgets of the region and the contribution organizations count on the maximum price, which is 7 crowns. If you guarantee it'll be a whole year, we'll never get above the price, then I don't know why the county has half a billion crowns there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u41	Thank you and now the room for the Prime Minister's reply. You have your word, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u42	Ambassador, I'll admit I don't know how to guarantee it when it's just approved like that. That's approved for this year, that's probably the biggest guarantee. And I don't know if I used the word "promise" or "believe," but in any case, the prices, the price ceiling is approved for 2023 and that's just guaranteed. And since this is approved for everyone involved, it means not only for households and entrepreneurs, but also for those who provide public service, including self-government, so there is that guarantee. And it is not my job, neither the Prime Minister nor the MPs, to speak into how they manage and how Vysočina County thinks. I have confidence that this is very rational and that there are reasons to make a reserve for buying energy. Why it can be, and what I see from this distant perspective as rational, is the possibility of buying energy at better prices in spot markets, for which the region probably needs a certain reserve. But that's just really my guess based on the knowledge of how energy prices are progressing. So, yes, if you want to hear the word guarantee, I guarantee it. In 2023, the ceiling will pay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u43	Thank you, it is now Mrs Schillerová's turn to interview and Mr Babka will be prepared. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u44	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Mr. Prime Minister, quickly before I go to my interview: So I noticed that you said 70 billion structural deficits, in your New Year's speech you were talking about 70 billion on the spending side, which I think the Prime Minister should not confuse. And now for my interpellation. I appeal to you with an urgent request to explain the extremely serious shortcomings in the way in which the National Budget Act for 2023 was drawn up. I've been drawing attention to this for a long time, I've gotten off on Tuesday with a point, I'm just trying to do something where it's possible, but I don't get answers, or the Minister of Finance always refers to the government, which is why I'm interpelling you. Yesterday, Mojmír Hampl, the head of the National Budget Board, an independent fiscal policy expert body, spoke openly and pointed out - and I quote what he said for Czech TV - that "if the real expenditure on transport infrastructure were as we think it should be, correctly part of the state budget, the deficit would be 20 billion higher, and you can add 20 billion to them the cost of further extraordinary pension valorisation." So much for Mojmir Hampl's quote. Dear Prime Minister, are we to see this discrepancy as a new standard for budgeting revenue and expenditure of the state? Does this mean that the most important law that determines the economic and political constraints of the government should be seen as a piece of paper where the missing 50 billion are not worth attention to the Minister of Finance? At the same time, I also ask for an explanation of what the final amount will be spent to compensate for the price ceilings, because there are four amounts that have been mentioned in the public space and official documents. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u45	Thank you for your time, and the Prime Minister has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u46	Madam President, as I'm sure you know, whether as Minister of Finance, former Minister of Finance, as well as budgeting expenditure and revenue is done with some degree of uncertainty and risk in the current period, which is not burdened with war, energy crisis, high inflation and all the factors that simply exist here. And when I look back, like the budget you were preparing from 2020, you approved a budget of CZK 1,618 billion, the result was 220 billion worse, CZK 1,842 billion. When I look at 2021, an approved expenditure plan of CZK 1 885 billion, a fact of CZK 1 906 billion, a deficit of CZK 419 billion. It's just about budgeting. The budget, as shown by the examples I have set, which are well known to you, is not quite a fixed thing, although everyone is trying to make it that way and to estimate it. I believe that in some form you have tried to do so too. It's not something that will be approved once, and it doesn't respond in any way to the terms. We are all trying to do this budget to meet the needs of the country, to match what citizens need, what entrepreneurs need, what the public administration needs. But with them - forgive me for the figurative expression - they actually have to breathe to a large extent. So if there's just an increase in security risks, you need to add money to defend yourself. When the unexpected effects of high energy prices occur, it is simply logical that the government and the budget respond to this. If things calm down, we can again have room for spending cuts and somehow manage responsibly. This means that this will show up on specific examples. I'm going back to the state budget, which is the facts we have on the table in 2022. The state budget was managed with revenues of CZK 1,624 billion, with expenses of CZK 1,985 billion. The resulting deficit was CZK 360 billion according to December evaluations, which amounts to 5.4 percent of GDP. It's 15 billion less than what the budget amendment was counting on, which is a good thing. It's 17 billion less than the original assumption was without war and without all the factors for last year, with which the government of Andrej Babiš came. The budget deficit fell by CZK 59.3 billion year on year, even in the situation of extraordinary events in Europe, and this was only due to the fact that we responded to current developments in the preparation of the budget. The budget - and now I get to the specific things that need to be adjusted occasionally - the original budget counted with a deficit of CZK 280 billion, and we had to change it because of spending on extraordinary pension valorisation - CZK 27 billion, an extra electricity saving tariff - CZK 17.4 billion, an additional contribution to renewable resources - CZK 4.7 billion, an increase in housing benefits and a material emergency - CZK 10.9 billion, a one-off contribution to a child - CZK 6.7 billion, humanitarian aid and more and more. So here you can see that there are reasons, because everything I've named helps citizens, helps them overcome the situation with inflation, with high energy prices, and it's budget adjustments that we stand for, that were good and that we had to do over the course of the year to prove how I said it before, so that the budget can really breathe with citizens, with their needs, with the needs of companies and all the others that we just have to care about. So some uncertainty, and I admit it, is in the budget, and I don't think it's anything surprising or weird. And while you are trying to design it as likely as possible, it cannot be excluded that some adjustments are necessary to respond to the conditions that are changing. [[Time, Prime Minister.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u47	Thank you. The honourable Member is interested in an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u48	Prime Minister, let me try something else. You are short of the budget of 30 billion for SFDI contracts, 20 billion for extraordinary pension valorization. These are clear things of a mandatorial nature that you know in advance. Then you have 100 billion to compensate for the price ceilings, but in the government's regulation you say that it will cost 200 billion, and the ERO even stated 242 in official documents. So please, the level of uncertainty you're talking about is tens, almost hundreds of billions. Please, it doesn't really count.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u49	Thank you and now time for the Prime Minister's reply. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u50	There is a certain degree of uncertainty in each budget; that budget for 2023 is anti-crisis, war and, of course, solidarity. We are assuming that inflation will generate additional extraordinary spending next year, headed by higher pensions, social benefits, electricity and gas prices, and more. I, to the basic parameters of the budget that you are questioning here: budget revenues of CZK 1 926 billion, expenditures of CZK 2 223 billion, planned deficit of CZK 295 billion. We are preparing savings, as I have already mentioned, and the Minister of Finance is talking about it repeatedly, and a lot of other experts are talking about it, which will be an important topic in 2023. With regard to the price ceiling approved for 2023, as I have confirmed and guaranteed here, the estimate is that it will cost around CZK 100 billion, pension expenditure CZK 672 billion, which is CZK 141 billion more than 2021, compared to 2022 it is 81 billion more, and now the pension expenditure amounts to 30 percent of the budget expenditure. There are also, of course, planned other expenditures that we consider important because we want to invest in our security and defence, we want to invest in transport infrastructure and we invest in education, which is in line with the needs of the Czech Republic and is in line with the priorities of our government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u51	Thank you for keeping time. It is now Mr Babka's turn to prepare Mr Černý. Mr. Ambassador, you have room.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u52	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Prime Minister, I hope I can be the first Member to answer a specific question today. So let me put it down for you and it concerns the adoption of your five-calice amendment on Czech Television and Czech Radio. At the same time, as I mentioned, I beg you to answer a specific question directly, because I suspect that you would like to tell me in the next five minutes what is all the content of this amendment and that by dividing the elections between the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, you are fulfilling your programming statement. We know that, of course. My question, however, points to what I pointed out at both the first and second reading of the law, namely that you are adopting this law on purpose when the CEO of Czech Television is to be elected. The Czech Television Council approved the timetable for this election yesterday and the selection procedure for the CEO will begin on 14 February. 17 April will be the deadline for applications, 17 May will be the vote of the councilmen on narrowing the number of candidates to five and the Czech Television Council will vote on 7 June for the new CEO of Czech Television. And my question is: Do you find it really appropriate and right that, at some point during the spring, which is already during the selection of the new CEO, the amendment of Minister Baxa will bring into force the law, the Czech Television Act, which changes the number of councillors who elect the CEO, and even changes the call to which this CEO is to be elected? You really don't think that's special? Aren't you afraid that you will completely discredit this public service medium or the new CEO with this step for a certain part of society? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u53	Thank you. And now the Prime Minister has the floor. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u54	Dear Member, as I observe in the Chamber of Deputies, I believe that this law could have been passed some time ago, and then your argument of some effectiveness would have lost even more and more to relevance if it had not blocked the opposition that you are a member of. So I find the complaint inconvenient, and maybe she could be heading into her own ranks. At the same time, I don't think it is possible to ask me not to remind you that the amendment, the amendment to those laws, is the fulfilment of the government's programming declaration, because in another interpretation, I listened that we shouldn't do anything that we don't have in the government's programming statement, so this is a commitment from the government's programming statement and we are trying to fulfill it. And it's neither purpose nor quick nor surprising. Let me just remind you that the considerations on the involvement of Parliament's second chamber in the election of members of the public media have repeatedly appeared here in the past decade. That's something that's been going on for a long time. The interest of the government and the government coalition is to strengthen independence, to strengthen the independence of the public service media. Therefore, the bill also abolishes the collective appeal of the Council of Czech Television, Czech Radio. This is a strengthening of independence and stability. In doing so, and this is also important to your question, the transition to the provisions of the bill guarantees that the existing members of both councils will properly complete their term of office. And the Senate will be involved in the election - and this must also be said - of the whole truth - of the election of the members of the Czech Television Council and of the Czech Radio Council gradually. In addition to this systemic change, the bill contains a new regulation in which we want to avoid the purpose of setting up bodies for nomination of candidates for public media councils. It is therefore proposed that only those legal persons who represent the legitimate interests of a company that have existed for at least ten years should be allowed to submit candidates for board members. The bill was discussed by the Guarantee Election Committee, recommended to the Chamber of Deputies to approve the Government's bill, as amended by three amendments, and the Government's position on the proposals of the Election Committee here points to cooperation with the Chamber of Deputies. It's okay, whether it's a name change or some other stuff. The amendment does not concern the term of office of the CEO of Czech Television, I return to your question again. The Director-General shall properly complete the term of office, which shall expire on the current Director-General, as elected, this year's election of the new Director-General shall take place in accordance with the legislation. There's nothing weird about that, or there's some sort of major change that could put something at risk. On the contrary, as I pointed out, the government draft takes into account the debates that have been here and adopts recommendations that will strengthen the independence of Czech Television and Czech Radio. I will mention briefly that we are increasing the number of board members. Of course, the increase to eighteen has several reasons. One reason, of course, is to involve the Senate, and the Senate will be involved gradually. But the second reason is also the size of an institution that such a council controls. Take how many debates, disputes about Czech TV, fights, matches about Czech TV. It is necessary for the public to be sure that this public service body is properly controlled and functioning as it should. It manages with a budget of CZK 7 billion, which is three times more than the budget of another public media institution of the Czech Radio. Therefore, it is also appropriate that such an important institution will have a wider representation of experts. For comparison, I have some data from abroad. In Germany, a public service in the area of television broadcasting is supervised by an authority that has 70 people, so our increase is not special... [[Time, Prime Minister.]] [[Time, Prime Minister.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u55	Thank you, thank you, thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u56	Yes, yes, I do. Thank you, Prime Minister. I'm gonna try to specify the problem I've outlined here. You said that the election of the CEO would be in accordance with the law, and that is precisely the problem, because if the law were to apply from 1. 1. 2023, as you originally planned, I couldn't say anything here at the moment. However, according to Minister Baxa's amendment, the law will come into force in 15 days in the Collection of Laws, which means, sometime in March or April of this year, and that will be an open tender, it will be already underway. This means that, for example, fifteen councillors, who are currently, will decide on the five candidates, but, on the contrary, the three additional candidates, namely the eighteen, will vote for the new CEO. So don't tell me that this or this amendment doesn't affect the choice of the new CEO.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u57	Thank you for keeping the time and now the space of two minutes for the Prime Minister's reply. You have your word, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u58	I admit that I don't fully understand the logic of this reasoning, but I'm not questioning it, I just don't fully understand it. We as the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate will adopt some adjustments to the rules and create some new conditions for the Czech Television Council, guaranteeing that the term of office of the board members who have already been elected will be maintained. It will be gradually completed or the Senate will be involved in the nomination gradually and there is some legal framework on which to proceed. At the same time, it ends properly - it is not limited, it is not interfered in any way - the term of office of the CEO of Czech Television, as it will be determined, and then there will be a choice of the new CEO on the basis of the consequences that this amendment will bring. I don't really see any problem, nor do you see the problem. This will be in accordance with the law, no one is involved in his term of office on the basis of this proposal, there is no change that could raise doubts. The Chamber of Deputies and the Senate will adopt an amendment to the law and will continue to proceed accordingly. There's nothing weird about it, there's nothing negative about it, there's nothing suspicious about it. Yes, I would also like it if we had approved this earlier, but it just didn't happen, and it didn't happen not because of the government coalition, but it happened because the opposition doesn't want us to go through this bill, or rather to bring it to a successful end. [[Time, Prime Minister.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u59	Thank you. It is now Mr Černý's turn, and I would like to point out that the interpellation to the Prime Minister ends at 16 o'clock. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u60	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Mr. Prime Minister, at the beginning of May last year, the Pavel Tykač energy group offered cheap electricity to your government. Since it was only possible to find out in the media that this was the case with the government, I asked you about this at the beginning of June last year. I was wondering what stage of the negotiations they were at and when they were supposed to come to an agreement. You answered me very evasively back then, and you didn't really answer me. Your government has never said much about this matter. In the autumn of last year, the CEO of Tykač's energy company said - quote - in an interview for iDNES. "We offered cheap electricity to the government in the first half of the year. It was in the size of 3 terawatt hours. However, from the response of the representatives of the state, we have assessed that there is no interest in this, and at this point we are no longer counting on it." End of quote. [[15.50 hours]] This year, households have been increasingly hit by a large increase in energy and their high ceiling. In this case, you had a great opportunity for them to reduce the price significantly, but in the majority opinion, you just bailed on them. In my region, I face more and more questions about why this has not been done. I therefore ask you for these citizens of the Czech Republic, Prime Minister, why did you not have an interest in this proposed solution of this Czech company as a government? And my follow-up question, I am going to put it together directly: Will you try to renew these negotiations, which would significantly help bankrupt Czech households, even under some compromise conditions? Thank you for your clear answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u61	Thank you for your time, and now there is room for the Prime Minister's reply. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u62	Dear Member, thank you for your question, and I can only say that we did not take advantage of this offer because it was not advantageous. We have also dealt with other energy producers, but in the end we have chosen or used the European regulation on excess income levies, thanks to which we can stop and compensate. This solution, which may look attractive and cheap in terms of media expression of those who offer it, had a lot of other conditions and costs, which would ultimately mean that it would not be beneficial for Czech citizens. However, I want to make it clear that the government has taken other steps and other measures that result in people, companies and public institutions being guaranteed that energy prices will not exceed a certain amount. We have introduced an amendment to the Energy Act, which puts up energy prices, we have introduced a ceiling at the level of CZK 6 per kilowatt hour for electricity, CZK 3 per kilowatt hour for gas. We have prepared an austerity tariff for this year, we have forgiven the renewable energy charge, which has an impact on everyone, again on households and businesses, and we have taken a number of other steps that lead to citizens, companies and the public sector guaranteeing that energy prices will not go up. In addition, we have also taken measures for those you have spoken of, which means for those who suffer from increased energy prices, which may not even be enough help. Here we have done a whole system that can be found under the name Umbrella Against Delicateness. We have increased and expanded the possibilities for obtaining a housing allowance, and this concerns all those who would have problems with household costs, as well as on the basis of the ceiling on energy prices and all other measures. We have also taken many other steps in the area of social support. We have increased the existential and living minimum, we have prepared a contribution for singles, singles and families with children, and we have created conditions for the fact that pensions can be significantly revalued repeatedly. We also helped with energy prices, and it was not at all easy to find the right mechanism, which is in accordance with our legislation and also with European law. We have also found a way to help and to stop energy prices within the temporary crisis framework and for large companies. So we did -- not to mention the steps we've taken to get enough energy at all, because the fact that we have enough gas today isn't automatic. This is also due to the steps our government took on time, we did them in the spring. We have created sufficient gas storage capacity, but we have also acquired capacity in the LNG terminal in the Netherlands and continue further negotiations. So, yes, there are different ideas in the public space, maybe there are certain business strategies, I do not blame anyone or question it at all, but after the state looked at the designs of individual producers and considered the advantages and disadvantages for Czech citizens and Czech companies, so the other solutions that we then adopted came or were evaluated as better, more efficient and more effective, and that is why we chose them as well.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u63	Thank you for keeping time. I'll ask if there's an interest in an additional question? Yes, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u64	Okay, thank you, Prime Minister. Thank you again for the evasive answer. Then I'll ask you directly. Can you tell us how much Mr. Tykač has offered you the price of one kilowatt hour so that citizens can compare it, if the offer you're talking about is really the more advantageous one? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u65	I also thank you for keeping the time and now for the Prime Minister's reply. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u66	But it's not about how much he offered us or how much he says he offered us the price of one kilowatt hour or a megawatt hour. These are also the other conditions, guarantees and payments that the State would have to make in this context. And please, in order to have this debate - and it is really difficult, it is not at all simple - even within some expert working groups. I'm ready for this, and I'm sure my colleagues in the government are, too, but really competent. So if I read that we produce electricity from coal for 7 euros and something similar, this is information that is only very partial, which is incomplete and which is not even true because, for example, the price of emission allowances and other and other costs that you simply have to include in it today. So, yes, the offer was simply not advantageous in this regard. In addition, the annual electricity consumption in the Czech Republic is some 70 terawatt hours, so the offer of 3 terawatt hours would not have been shown in any way. And when I look at today's electricity prices on the market and their outlook, it wasn't a good offer either. I have no doubt that entrepreneurs who want to help the Czech Republic come up with such offers. It is a good thing, but it is the task of the state and the government to calculate the effects, to calculate all the ancillary costs, to consider all the risks and benefits associated with it, and then to decide. We have done all of this, and it turns out that the other ways I have described here have led to the fact that today citizens, companies, everyone, have guaranteed that prices will not exceed a certain ceiling. [[Time, Prime Minister.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u67	Thank you, and now it is Mr Koten's turn. Please note that within 16 hours you can submit, so there is still room. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u68	Thank you. Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I also met personally with the fact that I needed antibiotics, so I went to the nearest pharmacy and then began to anbase for quite common penicillin antibiotics. Your government also praised itself in the form of Facebook contributions and others on social networks for exporting eight trucks of different medicines to Ukraine. So I would like to ask you whether it outweighs the interest in exporting medicines from the Czech Republic to Ukraine, or whether it has our state, that is, you are Prime Minister of this Republic, so whether it should become the Czech Republic, and you are its Prime Minister, to secure medicines for citizens in the Czech Republic, whether it is therefore not a primary concern, because I met a lot of desperate people where moms were looking for Nurofen for children against fever and the like, and the recommendation of the Minister of Health was to make them cold wraps. [[16.00 hours]] I think that we live in the twenty-first century and that basic medicines, both for children and adults, should be represented. And I just wish that this situation would be resolved quickly and that the practical doctors would really have the opportunity to write some antibiotics, because I had to end up from the pharmacy where they had the last two packs of antibiotics, he had to call his attending doctor to write me the antibiotics they had at the pharmacy, and to send it to me by eRecipe. And I think that's totally undignified. We don't have banana queues here, but we have drug queues, and patients are unable to secure them for themselves or their children. [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u69	It's 16 o'clock, so it's time for the interview, but I suppose the Prime Minister will answer this one. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u70	Dear Member, I've already had the opportunity to respond to a drug shortage situation, I don't want to repeat myself. You mentioned antibiotics specifically here, so let me just remind you that the reason why a certain lack of antibiotics is now a higher disease for citizens than it has been in recent years. Then these are manufacturing reasons, because a number of medicines are missing some of the components of the medicines, which, of course, prevents it from being produced. The reason for this is that supply chains have also been disrupted as a result of covid, and it is also the current situation in some countries in Southeast Asia. There is a shortage throughout Europe, and to some extent it is also caused by insufficient planning on the part of manufacturers, because there is a plan to produce drugs six to eighteen months in advance. Manufacturers underestimated the situation, did not increase capacity, and this leads to problems. You also mentioned Nurofen. For Nurofen to make the situation worse besides the objective lack, because he was already imported into the Czech Republic in large doses, but the fact that he was bought up again for fear of not being in the future simply complicates the situation. So supplies that normally last in exposed years or months of a quarter of a year were sold in this atmosphere within a few days. I have already mentioned the steps that the government, or the Ministry of Health, has taken to prevent this situation from happening again. The Ministry of Health is negotiating with manufacturers to accelerate deliveries that are planned for a later period. It deals with distributors so that drugs can be imported not only by the European Union, where it is - just throughout Europe there is an objective shortage of certain types of medicines, but also from the USA, Canada, Australia, which is not easy at all due to the conditions of the authorisation of these medicines on the European market or on our market. Negotiations are ongoing with companies that supply pharmaceuticals to the Czech market, and what I also consider important is the amendment of the law, which will introduce some new obligations for distributors, such as the obligation of supply for a longer period, because if there was an obligation to supply for a longer period, the situation would not be so unfavourable right now. So much for the material part. As for some of the political undertones of your question, which, of course, you are also fully entitled to, I would like to say that it is impossible to build a shortage of medicines that Europe and the Czech Republic are facing today, in connection with Ukraine, the situation in Ukraine, or with the help of the Czech Republic of Ukraine in these difficult conditions and in its difficult situation. The medicines, medicines that have been given to Ukraine in the past, are in no way those that are now concerned with the current shortage that Europe is facing, and therefore the Czech Republic. I believe that the steps taken by the Ministry of Health will lead to the maximum possible number of medicines currently available. As Europe, we also need to incorporate components for drugs into our thinking about strategic products and raw materials, in which we need to significantly reduce dependence on Eastern dictatorships and other states, because such dependence can lead to significant problems. Here the lack of medicine is not part of any tactics, but it is objective problems both in supply chains and with the delivery and production of components, which is mostly concentrated in the area of Southeast Asia.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u71	Thank you and allow me to end with this, because it is no longer possible to ask another question, we have already exceeded the time limit, so I hereby initiate an interpelation on the members of the government as they have been drawn. And by this I call on Mr Josef Kott to give an interview to the Minister of Agriculture Zdeněk Nekula and thus launch a block of government members' replies, and Mr Zdeněk Kettner will be prepared. I just point out that Minister Nekula is duly excused. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u72	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Exactly, my interpellation to the Minister of Agriculture, who is excused, concerns the disease situation in livestock in the Czech Republic, which is currently avian influenza and African swine fever. There are more than 14 outbreaks of avian influenza in the Czech Republic. At present, significant poultry farming in Tachovsko is being destroyed, thereby losing production of about 20 percent of the Czech Republic's egg production. This is an urgent situation which could ultimately endanger consumers, as an increase in the price of eggs can be expected. The price in the markets is now around CZK 7 to 8 per piece and it is mostly caged eggs from imports. The Czech Republic is currently self-sufficient of 86 percent and, of course, after the liquidation of this large farm in Tachovsk, self-sufficiency will decrease significantly. As regards African swine fever from last week, there are three new seizures in the Liberec Region. Therefore, I would like to ask you in this form, Minister, for the following answers to the questions: firstly: What is the current development of the disease in avian influenza and African swine fever, and what will be the corrective measures? Second question: How are compensation for veterinary measures paid and sufficient funding for future periods? Third question: What will this situation have to do with the Czech Republic in relation to the agreed disposal of cages? And the additional question is whether it is not time to delay the effectiveness of the disposal of cages. I believe that these questions are not only of interest to the members of the agricultural committee but to all farmers of the livestock concerned. Thank you in advance for answering my questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u73	Thank you for keeping the time limit. However, as I have already announced, the Minister is duly excused, so I would like another duly applied for, and this is Mr Zdeněk Kettner, who will also interpel the excused Minister of Education, Minister Vladimír Balaš, on the violation of the school law. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u74	Thank you for the floor. Since this is an oral interpelation, I also expected an oral response, so I will save my interpelation for the next time and give up my right to a written reply to my interpelation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u75	Yes, thank you, and please another duly signed up, and this is Mr Radek Koten, who will interpel the Vice-President of the Government of Mr Vít Rakušan on the matter of the Disinformation Act. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u76	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask, because I caught it, among other things, in the daily press, in the List or in the Journals, and basically what is presented there, it reminded me a bit during the Christmas holidays, and it breathed on me a long time ago, when there was a completely different regime and so on. I would probably compare it to 50 years, because the law makes me feel like a person who doesn't sit with us is against us and needs to be silenced in some way. [[16.10 hours]] I'm going to lighten this up a little bit, but it can be said that the state here wants to give 150 million crowns to the so-called friendly media and non-profit NGOs, which will therefore be so-called fact-check, will verify the facts and will therefore give some kind of recommendation to a government agent for disinformation. Based on this, either contributions will be removed or the entire website will be blocked. I think that the amount that is devoted in this direction should be directed in a completely different direction. It can be said that if this law had passed in this way, we would have a so-called Censor Office here, which, on the basis of what some non-governmental nonprofit organization paid from God knows where, with non-transparable funding, for example from abroad, would have blocked the pages here and suppressed wrong opinions. So I'm just threatening that because there's still a threat to the regulation of the penal code that there's going to be an increase in something like what we've had here - defamation and so on - and that's why people are going to go to jail. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u77	Thank you for asking. Please, Mr. Vice Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u78	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Me first, technically. I would like to apologize to all my colleagues and colleagues. You know we disagree on a lot of things, but I'm an interpeller. I've only got an hour to be here today, so as soon as I can, I'll do it, I'll answer the others in writing, I'll be excused after 5:00. But again, of course, I am willing to answer in writing. I understand that these two minutes are a short time, Mr Member, through Mr President. I also did not like the system of intervention as an opposition Member. But you didn't ask the question. You gave a description of the situation during your interpellation. Finally, you said to me, "Thank you for your answer. I don't really know what to answer at this point when there's no line of questioning. But let me bring some answers myself, and I will respond factually to what you have said here in your contribution. First, what law and which law are you talking about now? This law contains no support for the non-profit sector and you are talking about two things that are not identical. There's some kind of plan, an action plan, submitted by the government agent Mr. Klíma, not the Ministry of the Interior. This action plan is not completed, it is conducted by various commentary management and there is no final product. You may have been talking about supporting nonprofits here, but don't bring in the law that the Home Office is preparing, because there's no such thing, it's completely different material. So let's just get our concepts straight. Some action plan to combat misinformation is nothing that would arise at the Ministry of the Interior. There we are just a reminder place like all the other resorts, okay? Just to get our minds straight. Then there's the law you're talking about forbidding something from censoring something. No one's ever seen that law before. If you do, then you're probably better off than I am, because he's running some kind of commentary procedure, and not even official. He is discussed with legal authorities, he is discussed with people who are experts of course also on IT traffic and the like. Now some kind of commentary base is gathering, and the law doesn't exist at all. There's some kind of work version that's being recalled. You guys are talking about this - and I would like an answer from you, you don't have to - of course - I'd like to ask: In this interpretation, what did the Home Office ever censor, please nicely? The Censor Office - what censorship did we come up with? Give me one or two examples, please. What about the Home Office? You're asking the Home Secretary. Where did we come up with some censorship? We've erased something, we've forbidden something, we've somehow driven someone to account? I'm asking about the Home Office, which you call censoring and all that. I'm asking you what we censored and what law you're talking about when no one's ever seen him before. You, as a Member, through Mr President, will be the first to see him, and you will certainly speak to him legitimately here at this table. Now, on the plus side, I've got 1 minute 29. What we are preparing is not the action plan with which you have brought it together, through Mr President. It's not an interior matter at all. We are preparing a proposal for a law on restrictions on spread involving national security online, and that is national security if someone calls on people to invade Parliament as well as the Capitol and throw Members out the windows here, and it will be a reality-based fact that will be brought to the attention of the security forces of our state. If someone here violently urges against a group of persons, such as the SPD, to be committed by a serious terrorist threat, and will be called upon to be put at risk to health or to life, at such a time, I think it should have an intensive instrument to prevent such information from spreading because it calls for violence against a particular group of residents with its rights. That's all he's gonna do. The fact that someone here in the presidential campaign is lying, that President Pekarová supports Mr Babiš, and she still shares it, that is a normal lie. They're just liars between us, that's normal, we're used to that in history, it'll always be here. No one's gonna turn it off and remove it. This concerns national security and the threat of a group of people. This may include, for example, the SPD. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u79	Thank you for keeping time. The Member obviously wants a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u80	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Of course, I didn't ask that question, but I will at least answer your question. This is where we discussed the information on the Security Committee, where you weren't, because you were on a foreign trip. As for the article on the Journals, of course, I don't know if it was a controlled or uncontrolled leak from the Ministry of the Interior or from anywhere else. Anyway, when I read it during the holidays, I was quite surprised. So, of course, I was wondering if the law is basically preparing it. These amounts were mentioned in the article, and they were also heard on the Security Committee, so I came from the data here. That is why I wanted to ask you what stage the law is at, whether it is already in some final version, for Members to have it, whether it is on the Security Committee or whether it is already in the House of Deputies' system, or at what stage the law is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u81	Thank you. Mr. Vice Prime Minister will respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u82	A clear and fair question that comes up with a jasný and fair answer. First, in the law, and again, here I am saying, there are no amounts for anyone, for the nonprofit sector, for the media. This law doesn't matter at all, but it doesn't matter at all. It doesn't! That doesn't concern the law. This bill, once again, is called, to quote it precisely, about limiting the spread of content threatening national security online. Threatening national security online, that's all. That means, the moment there's some information that threatens national security, health, the lives of citizens, their groups, some calls for violence against anyone in society - it's not just against the ruling entity, those governing entities are changing - against anyone, against security, against the system here in that country - so the possibility of intervening as the most extreme instrument is to stop this information - I say again threatening national security - from spreading. In the draft law, which is not yet in the official interdepartmental commentary procedure - it is in the unofficial expert discussion that the Ministry of the Interior has started precisely because of the sensitivity of the topic - it is clear that the exercise of authority will be entrusted to one of the public institutions that will cooperate with the security forces. It will give detailed reasons for its decision, and this decision is imputable to the courts in the shortened regime. I also add that there are no sanctions in the law. It's the Justice Department, we're not responsible for punishing people. For God's sake, the Home Office isn't punishing anyone anymore. We just have a law against national security, that's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u83	Thank you. I would like another interviewer, and this is Mrs Maříková, who will interpel the Minister of Health Válek. Let me also read the speed of apologies: Mrs Alena Schillerová, from 16 for work reasons, Mrs Renata Zajíčková, from 16 for work reasons, Minister Vladimír Balaš, from 16 for work reasons and Minister Jana Černochová from 16 for work reasons. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u84	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Minister, pharmacies report blackouts on vital medicines. Insufficient are antibiotics, eye drops, fever medications or cardiac arrhythmias. Patients need to go around pharmacies many times within a dozen kilometers to get the medicine they need. Drug outages have also occurred in the past, as all drug production has moved to Asia. The state is also pushing for the lowest price for remuneration, making pharmaceutical companies more attractive to other countries. The fact that there are now several hundred thousand more people in the Czech Republic who have come from Ukraine has also been involved in drug consumption and, among other things, the sale of medicines worth CZK 36 million to Ukraine has taken place. The long-term unsolved problem has escalated, and since Sunday, when we talked about it, hospitals also report a lack of medicine. Due to the outages of special medicines, some hospitals report major problems when they lack short-term anesthetics, for example. Doctors have to look for not exactly ideal replacements for them. For example, because of the lack of so-called short-term sedatives, Jablonec Hospital cannot currently operate as many patients as it might actually have. As a result, all planned operations will not be in time and must be postponed. But the problems are also experienced by paramedics who lack the medication that is needed to revitalize patients. They've detected a blackout on Amiodaron or Cordaron. How are you going to solve this problem really now? Because if patients and anesthetics are missing, we are already talking about endangering the quality of health care and the lives of our citizens. We cannot wait a month, two or a change in legislation in this case. Well, if, Minister, you can answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u85	Thank you and I would like to ask the Minister of Health and Deputy Prime Minister Vlastimil Válek for Response. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u86	Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Members, on the one hand, I would like to thank you very much for the interview, and I would also like to thank you very much for having discussed the problem in advance. Yes, drugs are missing in the Czech Republic, the blackouts are all over Europe, they are all over the world, and the Ministry not only meets, acts, but acts. As a result, we've brought in by 24. 12. 340,000 packages of Nurofen, a supply that is normally enough for more than one quarter - Nurofen syrup, I am not talking about tablets, cones - and now we have brought in tens of thousands more packages. During the time we have been actively dealing with the situation, i.e. in the last month, a little more than a month, we have managed to negotiate other extraordinary imports from different countries, antibiotics from different categories of antibiotics. And why we couldn't do it until 1. 12. Because unfortunately, the law that allowed me to buy directly drugs by way of distributors and to approve them with special reimbursements applies from 1. 12. It is necessary to thank the House of Deputies for accepting it. But many of the information that appears is not entirely true, let's say, and a typical example is the Jablonec hospital. The director of Jablonec Hospital - Jablonec Hospital is the city hospital, its founder is the city, is in the Liberec Region, hello this region and hello the Jablonec hospital - director of this hospital Mr. Němeček, with whom I have spoken repeatedly on the topic, for the last time today, has no idea what the problem is. He doesn't know anything about any restriction of operations, he doesn't know anything about any inaccessibility, he doesn't know about any complications, and like you, I'm picking up this, say, not exactly right or fake news from different sources, but neither does the hospital's chief of anesthesiology, nor does any of the other colleagues I've contacted know about it, and, of course, the director of the hospital. I can think of one possible explanation. There is a preparation containing the active substance sevoflurane and this preparation is an inhalation anesthetic, but it is very specific, and basically it is almost, or delivery, made by only one importer, it is one of many inhalation anesthetics, and here was a problem in the month of January with deliveries. If any hospital - but I don't know that such a hospital would be - bought really machines, where other than this anesthetic it is not possible to use, let's say the manufacturer jumped on the fat so-called and somehow below the price obtained the device, which then forces the hospital to buy the products from one manufacturer, typical of contrast injectors - when this happens here and there, it is a problem, but even this problem is solvable - but it is definitely not a problem in the Jablonec hospital, and today Mr Němeček, the director of this hospital, for which I thank him very much, and colleagues from this hospital, which I am either directly or my friends from the Liberec hospital, have contacted. It is true that certain hospitals may require free delivery of inhalers from the manufacturer under the terms of the tendering procedure. It looks attractive because the inhaler is then free, but this results in dependence on the use of one manufacturer's medicinal product. This is not a very happy way, because, as you have mentioned, the market is very turbulent and dynamic, but even if this were the case, it should be noted that other medicinal products, both with this particular substance, i.e. with this active substance sevoflurane, and with other inhalation anaesthetics, are supplied on the market, and as far as inhalation anaesthetics are concerned, there is really no problem. Nor is there any problem in central medications, oncological preparations, cardiac preparations, preparations for the treatment of strokes and other preparations. The fundamental problem is in some of the free-market products, and the problem is that companies planned production a year and a half ago for this year simply misjudged the market, and the big problem is in some categories of antibiotics. But I also deal with this problem and deal with it successfully with imports that we managed to implement in December and now in January. Then I'll publish the numbers at the press conference on Friday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u87	Thank you. The honourable Member has an interest in asking an additional question. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u88	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I have a follow-up question. My colleague here also interviewed the Prime Minister because of his lack of medicine and mentioned the export of medicines worth CZK 36 million, which is 880 000 packaging, to Ukraine. The Prime Minister said it didn't affect the lack of medicine, and here I read on the Ministry of Health's website that the export came in cooperation with the Ministry of Health, the Directorate-General of the Fire Department and the Czech Association of Pharmaceutical Companies. So I would be interested to know from what I read, so I would deduce that it was a package intended for the Czech market, that it was in Czech. If not, where was the package supposed to go? If you can explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u89	May I, Mr President?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u90	Yes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u91	I apologize for being able to do so through you, Madame, as a paramedic, you will understand. The packaging with Czech instructions and Czech packaging would be about as helpful to Ukrajinec as if we were to provide them with slingshots. Of course, that would have been effective at the time of the Hussite, but it wouldn't have helped them today. This was the packaging that distributors throughout Europe had, made especially for Ukraine. The Czech state didn't cost much or not really, it didn't cost him anything, but it was purely an initiative by producers and distributors. There weren't any drugs missing today. It can't even be done, Nurofen can't be exported like this. There were mainly medicines that serve for acute medicine, for the emergence of medicine that serves during the wartime. There weren't any medications, there were mostly bleeding drugs, there were drugs associated with war medicine, just like the Ukrainian party's demands. That's a very simple explanation. There were really no drugs missing from the Czech market today, and there was no way they were drugs from the Czech market. [[16.30 hours]] You may recall that there were various initiatives at the time, they were not happy, and I banned them from directly controlled hospitals, and I asked the Pharmacy Chamber to do so in some way. I contacted a network of pharmacies to make it happen, that various citizens were buying drugs in pharmacies, packing them up, and taking them away. Well, I forbade that very quickly at directly controlled hospitals. That's why we organized it with distributors, which is why we organized it centrally, so it wasn't medicine that would be bought out in Czech pharmacies or from the Czech market and exported it, but it was medicine that wouldn't even go to the Czech market. I can guarantee that, really, either you believe me or you can't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u92	Thank you. Another interpelation should take place from Mr kolovratník to Minister Kupka, but I do not see Mr Kolovratník or Minister Kupka here, so we can move on to another interpelation. Mr. Jiří Mašek, who will be asking the Minister of War about the collapse of medical emergency services, will be the reason for this. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u93	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, dear Minister. We ask you for information on how and until you resolve the collapse of medical emergency services, both for adults, children and dental services. The collapse occurred throughout the nudity between Christmas and Christmas. While medical emergencies are set up and paid for by the regions, hospitals are also involved in them. For example, the director of one of them, Ing. Ludvík, the director of Motol Hospital, decided to cancel the only child dental emergency in Prague without discussing or securing any compensation. He thus exposed both parents and children from a broad rampage of a difficult-to-solve situation. It also collapses in the regions, for example in Liberec, where three emergency ambulances fell from 1 January 2023, namely in Semily, Hrádek nad Nisou and Tanvald. For example, in the Moravian-Silesian region, more than 100,000 people are completely free of their dentist and are only dependent on emergency care. You have promised a joint solution with the President of the Association of Regions, Dr. Kubk, so you promised to deal with him already. [[Cuba?]] Please, how far are you with the emergency response now, i.e. at the time the covid is dying, the flu, the MS virosis in children continue to rampant, and are we expecting a new mutation of omicron from China? Even now, between Christmas holidays, the ER has been burdened with twice as many patients as it has in past periods. I ask you for information on the Ministry's actions to remedy this long-term unsustainable situation, to ensure sufficient doctors for services, to increase the willingness of doctors to serve, or otherwise to systemize the provision of emergency services, methodological instructions for providing emergency services, cooperation with the regions - just how you want to deal with it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u94	Thank you. I'd like to see Minister Válek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u95	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, and through you, honourable Member. I don't like doing this, but I have to do it. The Emergency Act was adopted in 2012, we know that, Minister Heger, and then for eight years no minister did anything. If I were bad enough, I'd say YES: there were four years of minister, most of them on the Health Committee, the chair of the Health Committee. What have you done to improve the availability of the emergency room? The answer would be simple: nothing. Nothing at all. I started negotiations with the Association of Regionals, invited the Association of Practical Specialists, invited the Association of Practical Physicians for Adults and we are looking for a way forward. The road - and we both know it - is not easy. We can order the law to tie it up with capital pay to get emergency doctors to serve you, but we know what the number of doctors are, we know what their age average is, and it's not good for a part of those doctors - practices to end their practice. I guess that's where we agree. What we can do is pull in other specialists, and that's the thing that I'm discussing intensively right now. I believe that we could also draw practical specialists into the ER. Personally, I believe that wherever there is urgent income, there should be a medical emergency at the same time. And as part of the grant title - and I can now say this - under the grant title from which we will subsidize the urgent income, the subsidy will only receive the urgent income that will be provided by the medical emergency service. But it's still the responsibility of the county. We can change the law, the responsibility of the regions to withdraw and pass the responsibility on to insurance companies, for example, but it will not in any way result in increasing the number of emergency doctors. It's just an effort to find a consensus, and that consensus is being found. I suppose, after the next meeting, and now I've received fresh information from the president of the dentist's chamber, in the big meeting of dentists with the Ministry, the Governor - Mr. Governor Vondrák is the one who is pulled in this - we'll come up with a proposal regarding dental science. That's gonna be very hard. All I want to do here is look back on the baby dentistry - we don't have any baby dentists because they don't have any testimonials. Any dentist can serve an emergency, and it doesn't matter if it's adults or children. The fact that Motol ended the emergency was simple, not adult, so in children, no one else in Prague wanted to serve. Prague has its own clinic, it has its own dentists. I don't understand why they're not willing to treat children because there are no baby dentists, they're just dentists. I am glad that the mayor of the present still Hřib has decided to meet, and I hope he will tell me what solution he is planning. I, of course, do not defend myself at all if, like in another region, in South Moravia, there is an agreement between the city and a directly managed organization. In Brno, such an agreement occurred when Mr. Governor Grolich signed an agreement with the Brno University Hospital, so the emergency is valid, so he pays the doctors, refunds wages, and therefore, as well, children's emergency is being secured. Unfortunately, this procedure was not elected here in Prague and at a certain stage, because there were no doctors from Motol who would be able to serve the emergency, the situation simply occurred - it is what happened. It's a shame the Magistrate's leadership didn't sort of deal with the Ministry. However, this is still being dealt with in parallel with the captains. And I dare say that we will come to the health committee within two months with legislative proposals and short-term solutions. My ambition is for every doctor to serve at least one emergency once a month. I'm ready to debate with insurance companies about this - and I think it's the right way - for them to be properly rewarded. It should be said, however, that the emergency should take essentially from 17 to 22, 23 hours, respectively, and on working days from 8 to 20 hours. That means it doesn't solve anything from 8:00 p.m. to the morning and on weekends from 10:00 p.m. to the morning or until 5:00 p.m. Here, too, we need to discuss this, which is why I think the right way is - we have a network of urgent revenue. To be fair, it is the fruit of the work of Vojtěch Adam, and there I was very intensively involved in this from the Board of Providers. And I'd like us to follow up on these urgent receipts. I think most colleagues will agree with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u96	Thank you. The Member still has an interest in asking an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u97	I'll be very brief. I'm glad you finally admitted, Minister, that the urgent income project, 81 urgent income, is the project of Babiš's government, which planned it, which prepared it, which provided the money for it. And you're also right that it will be the pillar that can solve the issue of emergency services here. So it's not true that we didn't do anything about it, we laid the foundation. Why I'm picking it up now is because we've never gotten into this crappy situation, and you have to respond to it. You have to respond to it because he's still under the so-called jurisdictional law. It's bearded Law No. 2 of 1969, the law of the Czech National Council on the establishment of ministries and other central bodies of the administration of the Czech Republic, the Czech Socialist Republic, and there in indent 1 is that the Ministry of Health is the central body of the state administration for health services and so on. And this is the provision of health services. If you need an amendment to the law, let's talk about it here. [[Time.]] But the responsibility for the functioning of the E.R. in the entire Republic is at the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u98	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u99	We don't agree here. Responsibility is on the verge. We both know that, and that's how the law is written. They're organizing a county emergency. We both know that, the county has the opportunity to sanction doctors who won't go. And I agree that there is a need to regulate the law so that the area for the regions is better. But nothing has prevented my predecessors from making these changes in the last eight years. The fact that they didn't do it is a mistake. Urgent revenue, if I had left it as planned by Minister Vojtěch, would not have dealt with the situation because you know what the structure of the urgent income was. For example, Blansko Hospital should not have urgent income. It would be 25 hospitals they didn't have. Your government wanted to make a grant title for the emergency income, what did the grant title look like? We were sitting here, it was daddy daddy daddy, that was the lucky one, if you remember. Yeah, yeah, that was the push-up. This means that I now have to rewrite a grant title for urgent income so that we can finance it, and that happens, we have written this grant title and all the urgent income in the Czech Republic gets money. Yes, the situation is far worse than it was eight years ago, but the fact that the situation is getting worse, the availability of alertness, the fact that the number of dentists is getting worse, the availability of dentists, the fact that it is becoming less and less practical for adults and for children and adolescents, it is not that I would have been a minister of health for four years. I really don't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u100	Thank you, please join us now and this is Mr Ondřej Babka, who will interpel the Minister of Culture Martin Baxa, who has been excused since 14.30 for work reasons. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u101	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Serious absentee Minister of Culture, Baxa, I would like to interpel you on the same matter as I just intersected the Prime Minister, which concerns the adoption of the Czech Television Act and the Czech Radio, and I will explain why. My question points to what I mentioned here at first and second reading, namely that you are adopting this law on purpose when the CEO of Czech Television is to be elected. A meeting of the Czech Television Council was held yesterday, which approved the timetable for the election of the Director-General. The election of the Director-General shall begin on 15 February. It will take place from 15 February until 7 June, when the Czech Television Council will elect a new CEO. You, Minister Baxo, have read in the second reading the amendment that this amendment, which changes the number of councillors and changes the number of votes that the Director-General must be elected, will come into force sometime during spring. This means that we will probably find ourselves taking this amendment directly into the course of the competition of the new CEO of Czech Television, and my question is, do you really not find it purposeful if you are not afraid that this step for a certain part of the public will completely discredit this public service medium or the newly elected CEO? And whether, under the weight of this information, this fact, you would rather not give way to this rapid adoption of this amendment and not support, for example, the amendment that I have read, in order to prevent these speculations and to ensure that the law takes effect only 1. 1. 2024, after the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u102	Thank you. As I have already announced, Minister Baxa is duly excused, so I would like another interpelling, Mrs Margita Balaštíková, who will interpel Mr Zbyněk Stanjura in matters of twisted inflation. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u103	Hello, colleagues and colleagues, hello, absent Minister. But I have information that the Minister is on his way. [[Then he sees the minister in the bench.]] I'm sorry, Minister. So, while monitoring inflation, it could not be noticed that inflation was 18 percent in September, 15.1 in October and 16.2 in November. Many began to conclude that inflation is already under control and is beginning to fall. On the other hand, it is interesting that Eurostat shows completely different figures for the Czech Republic, i.e. in September 17,8, in October 15,5 and November 17,2. What kind of explanation can you please give me? Our statistical office counted Síkelův's so-called austerity tariff as the current energy price, but that austerity tariff is actually the state subsidies that producers receive. In Eurostat's reports, inflation was already lower than that shown by our statistical office by September. In October, this trick brought them to a lower number, and in November we also showed inflation significantly lower. The Statistical Office explains this in its comments by deducting state subsidies to consumers because it is conditional on the purchase of energy. But not all consumers will receive the subsidy. It does not apply to businessmen and people living in recreational buildings. So the question is, why did the statistical office still do this, and is this purely unrelated to anti-inflationary bonds whose return is governed by the inflation rate and reported by the statistical office? The fact is, on this one trick, the state saved a lot of money, but it probably didn't help the investors. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u104	Thank you for your question and please the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u105	Before I get to inflation, I will correct the misinterpretation of the honourable Member that the subsidy is not given to households, but to energy producers. That's just not true. The savings tariff is not offset from the state budget, and I think you too should have received a bill as a final consumer. And now the facts, because what you said here doesn't really match the reality at all, and I don't know if you've tried to push for something like that under your government. I don't think that's possible. First of all, the collection, compilation, reporting of consumer prices data is fully within the competence of the Czech Statistical Office, which is completely independent of the government, but also of Parliament, and is subject to the methodological supervision of Eurostat. Secondly, it would probably be better to ask for information directly from the Czech static office, but I have no problem answering you. Thirdly, and this is crucial, in line with Eurostat's recommendation, the Czech Structural Office has chosen a methodology to capture these government measures to be unified across EU countries. Now the turnoff - the difference between the data reported by Eurostat and the Czech static office - is mainly due to the imputed rent, which is better suited to the real cost of the household housing, and we are one of the few countries that has the imputed rent included in total inflation. It's just not in many countries. This methodical approach, which I mentioned, was announced by European agencies several months in advance of its implementation by the Czech Statistical Office and is publicly traceable on Eurostat's website several months earlier. The Czech static office, I will now quote what it says: "For the definition of consumer price, the real price, i.e. the price that the consumer is contracted to pay in the reference period for the product purchased by him, including all taxes, is decisive. On the other hand, according to Eurostat's methodological guideline, government subsidies subject to the purchase of this particular product are deducted from this price. This is also true if the consumer pays the full price and receives the subsidy in advance or in advance. For the timing of inclusion in the consumer price index, it is essential what is the binding price for a specific period, not the specific moment of payment or its time decision in the payment of advances and surcharges. The time-limited waiver of the POZE and the austerity tariff are thus understood as two parts of one government subsidy to households for the purchase of electricity in October 2022 to December 2023, when October to December 2022 is an austerity tariff and October 2022 to December 2023 is the forgiveness of the POZE payment." And now the so-called supposed capture of prices only in October. The Czech Statistical Office lists the impact of this subsidy on the year-on-year comparison of consumer prices in all three months - October, November and December. It's the right thing to do. It's government help. It should be said that without the measure, without this subsidy by the government, prices would not have increased by 15.1, but by 18.6, in November not by 16.2, but by 19.8 and in December not by 15.8, but by 19.3. And without this subsidy, which we approved in the state budget amendment, the annual inflation rate would not have reached 15.1%, but 16 percent. [[16.50 hours]] You were probably referring to the inclusion of these measures in month-on-month prices, and not year-on-year ones, only in the months of October. However, this follows from the logic of the index of months and years, so from this point of view the month was only in October. However, I ask, when the same methodology was used last year, when VAT was illegally reduced to zero on energy prices, I did not notice that the ANO Members attacked the statistics of the Czech Statistical Office and said: Attention, attention, why is the price artificially lower when VAT is zero? So the same thing was applied last year, it is correct and it is the decision of the independent Czech Statistical Office. It is not the decision of Babišův's government, nor the government of Petr Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u106	Thank you and I ask the honourable Member if he wants to ask an additional question? Yes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u107	Thank you, Minister, for your explanation, and please don't take it so personally. I know that during the reign of Andrej Babiš a similar methodology was used. I wanted an explanation, so I think the tone and the deployment were completely unnecessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u108	Thank you. The Minister will want to respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u109	I will break the Rules of Procedure, as will the honourable Member. I want to ask you, Mr Vice-President, where was the question?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u110	Nowhere.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u111	So you have to lead to the order of the Member to ask a question. Then I don't have anything to answer. So at least I asked you a question, but that also violates the Rules of Procedure. I'm aware of that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u112	You're right, but I had to let the lady talk because I didn't know if the question would come or not. But you're right, of course. And all the others, please, if they respond to those questions. Let's do another enrollment, and this is Mr Radek Vondráček, who here... [[Mr Vondráček is already behind the speaker's counter.]] Yes, I'm sorry. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u113	Vice-President, thank you for the floor. I'll start out untraditionally. Dear Home Secretary, it's normally good to see you. I'm glad you're here. It's always better to interpel a particular person than to talk to a wall here. The other day, a tour of children asked me if the MPs were weird enough to talk to someone who wasn't there at all. I've already intersected you once. I want to assure you that although you may deny it, the Czech public is really concerned about the various actions of the government and especially the Ministry of Interior in the area of combating misinformation and fear that we are embarking on the path of the so-called Ministry of Truth. My question to you will be directed to your KRIT team, the Crisis Information Team, and it is quite simple. Mr Hanousek, who is apparently the director of the department, has explained here that "KRIT is part of a whole that is managed by the Office of the Government, where separate departments are formed, and we are part of it," explains Petr Hanousek, which is where the whole system of civil servants is created. And I wanted to ask you because the government coalition refused to discuss this issue transparently, so they did not allow us to include these points, so I have specific questions: Who and when decided to set up this department? What's his personnel composition? How many people present today? Are they full-time people? Are these people under service law or are they outsiders? How were they chosen? Who approves their performances? How are public funds effectively spent? What is true of the claims that 100 million are planned for friendly media, 50 million for nonprofit organizations, 50 million to buy public media space? Which areas are being monitored by KRIT? Home politics? Foreign policy? What do individual recommendations represent? [[- I'll cut you off...]] How will these recommendations be used? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u114	Thank you. When I called on the Members to ask questions, I had no idea that Mr Vondráček would have questions like this. I'm sure the Vice Prime Minister will fight it, and he'll get all the answers in five minutes. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u115	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor and this day I will put my flower in my diary: Radek Vondráček was pleased to see me for the first time in his life. I certainly appreciate that. And just as I was blaming my colleague Koten for the fact that his interpellation did not actually contain any question, you approached the other extreme where I should use the services of stenographers. I guess I didn't have enough to make a point, my colleague, through the President. But I'm actually glad for these questions, because there are two things not to be distinguished from them. There is an action plan that is being prepared and discussed, the fight against misinformation, for which the Ministry of the Interior is not responsible. Why do I say that? Because there's information in your interview that we're planning, and you're linking it to the Ministry of the Interior, handing out some money to nonprofit organizations, that as the Ministry of the Interior, we're planning to spend some money on the media, and so on, I got it right at the speed that you had to use in your contribution in two minutes. It just doesn't have anything to do with what the Home Office is preparing. The Ministry of the Interior, on the basis of the decision of this plan and the analysis that your government has already started, means from the analysis of the state of readiness of the Czech Republic to face disinformation - I say again, your government has begun, we have inherited it, we have completed the analytical material that described the situation - which did not work out well. It turns out that the Czech Republic is not ready to face large disinformation waves, and this creates an action plan that does not have the Ministry of the Interior under it. He is only one of the comment points like the other resorts and has under him a government agent for combating misinformation. There are no funds for the non-profit sector in the material prepared by the Ministry of the Interior. This does not concern us in any way in this regard. We are preparing a law on restricting the spread of content threatening national security online. I don't know if you listened to my response to Mr Koten's interpelation, but here I made it clear that this is only and only a situation, as it is in Slovakia, at a time when the safety of a group of residents is threatened. Some say that a group of residents, whether they are people according to a race, ethnicity, etc., or a group of Members from a political party, whatever, so that they are destined to be destroyed by a violent route. This information will start to spread, calling on the public to invade Parliament, just as it did in the United States of America, and at that moment, and that is the only purpose of the law - national security - we have the opportunity to prevent such information from spreading. Not the spread of common misinformation, which is some kind of lie that Mrs Pekarová is voting for Babiš, or that I also support him in the presidential election, that's a lie, but no one is going to download it anywhere, and no one is going to close the website. That's just a lie that is in public space, and somebody is a liar, somebody's not, somebody's spreading those lies, somebody's not spreading them. But here, for God's sake, there can be no state of ambition to prevent the spread of a simple lie. People just lie, some even more. If you ask me about KRIT, Mr Hanousek is a former journalist, a marketer, and the Department of Strategic Communications KRIT, and that is probably the key answer to your question, he is organized into the Cabinet of the Minister of the Interior. I have informed myself on the procedures of the previous government whether my predecessor ministers have written selection procedures for positions in political Cabinets. I was told they didn't do that at all. On the contrary, it is quite common that these positions are occupied precisely on the basis of the decision of the Ministry of Interior's management. There are currently five people on assignment who are not under the Service Act, whose positions fall under the Labour Code, not under the Civil Service Act. These are people who belong to the Cabinet of Ministers. It's the Department of Strategic Communications, it's not a union, under the Cabinet of the Minister. Outputs are, of course, primarily controlled by the Minister and the Ministry's management at regular meetings, and if Mr Hanousek talked about being a part of KRIT, yes, other ministries also have strategic communication departments. It's krit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u116	Thank you. The Member is still interested in an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u117	Short reaction. I'm asking for some self-esteem because I have these famous Babiš posters on my phone: "I'm going to defend the Communists until they tear up the body. Vote for SPOLU." I mean, you're the first to apply this tactic, and more widely. As for the next one, I would like to quote one sentence to you: "Media does not pay attention to the subject yet, which gives space to actively shape and shape it. It cannot be expected that they would push him mass, but it cannot be ruled out that he will be abused by newspapers and television owned or close by the ANO movement and also by the disinformation scene." You really don't think it's over the line, that it's over the line? It is from KRIT material, which is called Increase of illegal migration through the Czech Republic - communication recommendations. So you're basically using this department against the opposition, and I really think that's unfortunate. I can only do a short smile - this is please the KRIT logo. [[It shows a dark logo. In the circle there is a stylized predatory bird with a beak on the right and its wings spread out. In the upper semicircle there is an inscription: Crisis information team. In the lower semicircle there is a sign: Don't worry and don't fall.]] So I'm just wondering, who invented it, what did it cost, and if it's the new national bird?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u118	Your time is up, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u119	I am pleased that the colleague has had time to say the question at the end, and this time the Rules of Procedure are not violated. But I would take advantage of that, and I would probably have completed some of the answers to the questions raised in the first part, if you will, my colleague, through Mr President, to answer as many matters as possible from you as possible. From the Office of the Government, the fight against misinformation is controlled, he is a government agent, and from that action plan, which has not yet been approved and it is the material for the negotiations, it follows that the department of strategic communication, and I think no one can deny that at this point, should have individual ministries. Currently the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has similar departments that engage in strategic communication. Nothing else is KRIT. Sometimes there are some fantasies in the disinfoscene that it's all one floor of the Ministry of the Interior, some unit equipped with, perhaps, firearms. It's not that, it's five people. Their original professions - they are educated in sociology, they are marketers, they are former journalists, they are people who have expertise in communication skills. As for the Slovak case, for example, we do not even enjoy the right in the law to have the Ministry of the Interior be the one to decide and, of course, reviewably, about shutting down any websites. In Slovakia it is similar to the NBÚ - Council for Media Services. It's been working there for a long time, and that law only works in case of a national security threat. I didn't make a sign, I really don't know who did it. But it says, "Don't be afraid and don't fall." Well, I guess the bird has something to do with flying and flying.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u120	Thank you. I would like to ask Mrs Věra Adámková, who will interpel Mrs Langšádlová on science support in the Czech Republic. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u121	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, gentlemen of the ministers. Allow me one interpelation, which I consider very important, because I have tried for it several times, but I have never been able to make it with the Minister because I have not been drawn in time, so I am taking advantage of it today. I myself am a great enemy of the growing state administration, so, of course, the emergence of new ministries - I expect that we will also get a certain summary after a year of their contribution. One of these is, therefore, the Ministry of Science and Research, which is now led by Master Langšádlová. Madam Secretary, my questions will be quite simple. To some extent we can also welcome the fact that there would be a roof over science and research, because, of course, each resort has its own questions, its own financial needs, and it would certainly also be possible to understand positively that there will be some umbrella component, which I would understand. I just don't see any profits there yet, but maybe it's because we just don't have information and that you don't usually get to talk, that's also possible. So I have a few questions. First of all, what are the trends that your ministry now sees in science that it strikes? How does the cooperation between the ministries look? How is this a financial cover? What's the connection here to industry, health care, humanities into practice? And how will you evaluate the success of our science? We know that it is not possible to evaluate only some of the publications in some fields. Here are good fields of theoretical, harder fields of practical, worst fields of humanities. However, I assume the Ministry is clear after a year. And then I would also like to know, in that case, how do you intervene in any way and what key is the distribution of funds into science and research in our Republic? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u122	I thank the Member and I ask the Minister for answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u123	Hello. Thank you so much for the floor and thank you for the questions asked. I'm sure I'd start by not having a ministry. I guess that was just a misconception. It is not the Ministry, I am the President of the Council of the Government for Research, Development and Innovation. At this point, perhaps one of the most pressing questions is the budget, so I would like to start with this question. I have answers for the others, of course, but maybe we'll continue this dialogue sometime next time. As far as the funds are concerned, we all know that the fiscal situation is very tight, and we have been based on the draft budget for 2022 and for 2023 from the medium-term perspective, which has been proposed by your government, and we have increased it. As regards the budget for 2022, it was an increase of CZK 700 million, which was allocated mainly to institutional support for universities and the Academy of Sciences. Of course, I see that this situation is very tense for 2023, especially with regard to energy price inflation, but that is why we have again increased by 850 million compared to your proposed medium term perspective. We have focused on the most pressing areas, and this is to strengthen the DKRVO for universities by 450 million, increase the DKRVO for the Academy of Sciences by 200 million and finance the Tokamak project by 200 million, together 850. However, when we look at what we have already done, it is crucial, and it was really how I spoke with the representatives of the Academy of Sciences and universities, and it is also for them to ceiling energy prices. And from the data that we have at this point, the additional costs for science and research, which are due precisely to the energy price ceiling, are about 2.5 billion at this point in the state budget. As regards the preparation of the budget, we want to strengthen the impact of inflation more significantly and to strengthen the financing of science and research with two or three accents, respectively. One of those accents is, and there it actually follows up on the memorandum that your government was preparing, and that is strengthening institutional support. You know, Professor, research organisations have institutional and dedicated support. The purpose support and its drawing heavily burden the whole system. The request needs to be written ten times more often in the success rate, so I understand the need to strengthen institutional support. I will endeavour to do so in the next budget to give greater stability through the DKRVO for research organisations. However, as far as the memorandum still signed under your government is concerned, it also has other parts, and it has to do with the overall situation. One of the very important points of the memorandum is the question of transfer. Compared to other countries such as Germany, Belgium, Israel, we have very little transfer, that is, little appreciation of the results of our scientists' science, whether in terms of directly selling licences, setting up spinoffs, but also issues of transfer to the public administration, so that the results and background from our scientists are an important factor in the decision-making of public policies. This has not succeeded even in previous governments. For the time being, I think we need to strengthen this, too, so that this is a significant factor. So what's gonna be important to me? It will strengthen institutional support. I'll try to follow up on the memorandum. It will be a matter of transfer, strengthening transfer and strengthening excellence. I'm sure there would be a number of points, but I think that's important. But as far as funding is concerned, as I said, there are countries where, indeed, their own transfer revenues are significant revenues from research organisations. However, in addition, and we have talked about the state budget, we can talk about operational programmes, about the National Recovery Plan, especially in components relating to science, research 5.1, 5.2. [[17.10 hours]] But where we have a very weak side, and not only science and research, that is the drawing of community resources, because we all know that this programming period de facto will end as we know it. And it applies to other areas, not just science, research. And there I think that science and research have great potential, especially in drawing - in the case of science, research - Horizon. And I have a comparison here. You know, in the first pillar of Horizon, we have the ERC grant, that's exactly the direction we should support. And I just have a little comparison between the Czech Republic and Austria.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u124	Madam Secretary, it's been a while, I've left it for a while. No matter how much we measure, I always leave a few more seconds, but... You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u125	Thank you for the floor. Thank you for the explanation. Well, it's not entirely clear what the benefit of the organization you run is, whatever its name is. And then I really want to hear the finances, too, because so far, funding the output of science is not entirely motivating, as we all know. And some of our assessment factors, such as the impact factor, where the Hirsch index is evaluated, or many foreign institutions no longer accept the Hirschův index, because of course it has big problems in how to navigate it. So I'll be glad when you can finish what you had in there. And I suppose that's not my last question, of course, because I'm not entirely satisfied. Otherwise, I thank you for commending the previous government for preparing some of the foundation stones that you could then expand, which is actually a commendation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u126	Thank you, and Madam Secretary can finish his explanation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u127	Thank you for the floor. I'll just fill in Horizon for a little while. There I think that - and we are really working on this, and we are strengthening the issue significantly so that there is greater participation in Horizon's programmes, especially the ERC, and I also suggested that money go to ERM.cz in the medium term. which are actually those who succeed, but there is not enough European money. I'm sure it's for a longer discussion. But you mentioned the questions of evaluation. You know, as part of the evaluation, the whole methodology is under me, under the Council of the Government, but we can influence module M1, M2. And there I would very much like in that M1 module where the selected results are evaluated by the volume of DKRVO, as you know, to have greater emphasis on applied research. But there really is a need to strengthen the question of evaluators. And as far as the M2 methodology is concerned, we will now continue to communicate with our evaluation committee, because exactly as you said, the situation is changing significantly from the point of view of publication. And I would very much like the participation in prestigious grants, ERC grants or other prestigious grants to be evaluated within the M1 module. At the moment, the evaluation committee is processing a list of prestigious grants, which, in addition to publishing activities, is at this moment what the M2 module is based on in individual quartiles, so that participation in the ERC grants is really evaluated. It is also after consultation with the prestigious workplace and it is one of the ways to support excellence, because that is what I think is the way to go. So once again: strengthening institutional funding, strengthening excellence and strengthening transfer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u128	Thank you and I will ask another of the duly registered, and this is Mr Richard Brabec, who will interpel the Minister Marian Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u129	Thank you for the floor. I mean, I haven't even gotten it yet, but it's like I got it. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, this time instead of some political questions, I would say one thing which is purely practical. I dare to remind the memoirs that perhaps I can say - quite uncompromisingly - I have made a significant contribution to better protection of national parks. When I was in the role of the Minister of the Environment, then the opposition, especially the ODS, but not only the ODS, she said that she would like a bigger opening of national parks, and so it is a little absurd today that I am now here as a supporter of one specific action, which, unfortunately, the Ministry of the Environment has blocked by its decision. Forgive me for saying that, even though it is, of course, the decision of the clerks. But it is quite a beautiful territory - the Luzen Valley, border crossing with the Bavaria Blue Column, which I long prepared for opening, then also with colleagues from the administration. We have taken a number of steps for this, I think, and that is why I was very surprised that a decision had been made a few weeks ago from the Ministry of Environment from the Department of Public Administration that it simply cannot be done. And I just want to ask you if you consider this decision definitive, if you see any way to appeal to it, because it has a certain amount of precedent in it. Well, then I'll make it clear on a follow-up question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u130	I thank Mr Brabco and, please, Mr Vice-President of the Government, Marian Jurečka, for the response. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u131	Thank you for the interpellation. Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I am based on the information that this interpelation will be today, so I requested information from the Ministry of Environment on how it was progressed, what was the intention, as was formally then or at the end and decided. Yes, the Ministry of Environment in České Budějovice about the intention of the national park, which tried to create thanks to a form of compensatory measures, i.e. the extension of another protected area for nesting a noose grouse to ensure protection here. I have to say that I perceive very strong arguments that are based on the fact that the site here is in a way specific to the protection at the time of nesting, the excavation of the young, and it is not quite easy to say that if we define an additional area, that we will automatically be able to gradually direct ourselves from the site where the relatively intense movement of persons begins, or not intensely, but the movement of persons begins there, if we open this border crossing point, that we can ensure that this population, which is on the territory of the National Park, does not decrease, there will not be interference at the time of nesting and exorcising and watering chickens, to its limitation. At this point, I see this decision as very highly technical and, in fact, I do not see, from the point of view of administrative procedure, the power to re-evaluate the decision on the basis of a request for compensatory measures, because this decision is not political, this decision is, in particular, professional, based on legal procedures. As Minister, I can possibly have some personal opinion about this, but it is simply not a political decision to enter into these matters. So if there were to be any change in the future, it would only have to come from the fact that there would be another, significantly different proposal that would say how the population would be protected in the national park territory. I do not want to presume this procedure if, in agreement with the national park, such a national park tries to re-enter and design any other protection measures that would have a better chance of making a positive decision. So at this point, I can't say clearly here: Yes, there will be a change in the future or there will be no change. I'm giving a fair answer to how I got to know the procedure today, how those measures were proposed, what were the arguments that rejected it. So I'm gonna contact the director as Secretary. He's going to talk about whether they can still be significantly redefined, expanded, modified, if there's even a chance for a new assessment in the future that would have a chance of success. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u132	Thank you, and the Member is interested in asking an additional question. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u133	Thank you. I'm just going to make this brief for the Minister. First of all, I think I can calm down with the grouse protection. It should only be opened from 15 July to 15 November, which, by the way, is the time when the Němec are open. Because paradoxically, we're in a situation where the Bavarian side is actually open to the Bavarian border and we're closed all year round. They're just open at that time, let's say, when the grouse isn't disturbing it, because it's not nesting at that time, or it's just not disturbing it in that critical winter or early spring season. [[17.20 hours]] But more importantly, here's the problem with the judicate. Because if we admit that it is not possible to compensate for any territory by other peaceful territories, by extension, then the Ministry can really get very, very easily into the situation that nothing will spread in any national park. That's why I think it would be good to judicate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u134	Yes, thank you. The Minister will still respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u135	Thank you. Of course, I also see the level of precedent, but here I will just note - and as I said, I will also get to know the detail of the defined location, the roughly more than 3,000 hectares, which should be the other substitute territory, the compensatory territory, even in terms of how the territory looks, how it is suitable for this population and so on, these are other aspects that must also be taken into account, but I will definitely get to know these possible further steps in detail from the point of view of the precedent. Thank you for the suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u136	Thank you and another duly applied for is Mr Robert králíček, who will interpel Mr Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Health Válek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u137	Mr President, Minister, I am addressing you with an interview called Digital Vaccine Card, based on an article published in the media that you are about to create for about 50 million digital vaccination cards from the Dot and Reader apps. That is why I wanted to ask you at what stage of reflection or at what stage of implementation it is, whether it was communicated within the digital transformation as well as with Minister Bartoš, who is currently preparing the so-called eDokužovka, and this concept would certainly be useful, or whether any Ministry will do digital documents itself? I would like to ask because there is already a pilot solution to such documents or such applications, whether any state-owned enterprises will be involved, because, for example, the State pricing printer already has a prototype in its possession? How will this be financed, who will be the publisher of this digital card and who will manage it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u138	Thank you and I will ask the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Health for a response. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u139	Thank you very much, Mr President. Five minutes isn't enough, but I'll try. The first thing to say is that Europe has been planning - it has been planning for many years - and my predecessors have supported it - something called a European electronic card, a health card. He's got to be unified, and we've been talking here about the HL7, DASTA standards and so on. We have a software that's a tečka, owns it. The software allows you to certify various documents and the state guarantees the authenticity of those documents when I say it very simply. The period has already been established in my predecessor, and the software is being managed and financed from the state budget, which means the state owns it, the program that we have installed, the 6 million users, on our mobile phones, and the competition, and this year, I think in the first half, can compete here with the development or changes of NAKIT. We have found from the European Union's money to cybernetize the health that was there, the opportunity to use some of the money to programme other options, other functionality in the period program. It means it's not about a new program, but it's an extension of functionality, with the tečka having to comply with all the rules - and we're calling it an electronic health card now, because it's already The period is not, behind what we do not do, it is stupid - so to program other utilities, which, let's say, will simplify the life of citizens of the Czech Republic. And the first thing we'd like to do is vaccination, some other vaccination next to the covid vaccination, so that it's vaccination against, for example, childhood diseases, tetanus vaccination, vaccinations for those who go abroad, so that it's all electronically, and like we could be shown vaccination for covid, so that we can still prove ourselves for other vaccinations. I, of course, discussed this with the National Office for Personal Data Protection. That's why we have to, I've said it here in written interviews, we have the Registry Act, but we can do some of it without the law, and that's the programming of these things, but the Dot is still the program, and we're just going to program various other functions. With a proper selection procedure, we always pick the cheapest person to sign up for, and the selection procedures are doing NAKIT for us, just like they did for my predecessors. There's no reason to change anything. And he owns the program, because, of course, we're with Minister Bartoš and the experts - and I took advantage of the fact that I was the deputy for IT - the program must have standards. [[with a smile]] This means they must communicate through HL7, they must be there if there is text, DASTA or some other standard and so on. That means, let's imagine that what the Ministry of the Interior is planning is the basic component in which there will be various utilities that citizens can use. One utility will be an electronic medical license, and the electronic medical license will have different and different functions. I can imagine that, finally, it could be something like an electronic personal health card. The huge advantage of the Dots is that they can communicate with medical software in medical facilities and that they were uploaded to the Dot from medical facilities, testing centers, various other information, and now it's a shame not to use it for the general benefit and not to expand it. This means it seems pointless to me to build some new European health card program, but our Dot, an electronic health card, will be the European health card in the Czech Republic. The Ministry of Health will, of course, issue the individual utilities, which must also guarantee that the data that are there are correct, certified and so on. And my dream, which I would like to make final - it's a dream, but I hope it can be realized either by me or by my successors - would, for example, be that you come up with a recorded electronic health card, i.e. Dot, to practice, upload an electronic request for a CT scan, go to the hospital or send it electronically, then load it with QR codes, and in this way you can transfer medical documentation. That's what tečka should know, it has all the potential. Deputy Director Bláha, who is the Deputy Director of IT, is now Chief Director, who is in full charge of this issue here. If any of the Members are interested in getting involved, I will be only happy and I will certainly be glad if you communicate with Deputy Secretary Bláha. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u140	Thank you and I ask the honourable Member if he is interested? He's not interested in the follow-up question. So we can move on to the next interviewer, and this is Mr Hubert Lang, who will interpel Mr Vice Prime Minister Marian Jurečka, on the case for the appointment of the Minister of the Environment. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u141	Thank you, Mr President. I don't see the Minister here, though he was just here. I would like to touch on the question, although I am not a specialist in the Ministry of Environment, which is now a bit resonated in public space, and this is the appointment and non-naming of Mr Hladík, Vice-President of KDU-ČSL and Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Environment. We all know that the Ministry, which is not completely insignificant and has large resources, has been managed by the two-minister for more than two months today. And suddenly there was a situation where the nominee was appointed, and the President of this nominee, which is Mr. Hladík, did not name him. Mr. Jurečka insists on his nominee and it has been done in an elegant way that he has been made the first deputy, that is, de facto the ministry is driving, de iure is not driving it and is waiting to see how it goes with the potential president. I want to ask Minister Jurečka, why? And that is the question: Is KDU-ČSL really so staffed empty that it insists on the nominee, even in the position of a witness today, but not entirely witness, because Mr. Hladík wasn't quite telling the truth, because we know today that the police are still saving the case, and that person who is a suspect can also be accused? Is Mr. Jurečka risking another affair or case of this five-caliber? If the situation had really changed and we found out that Mr. Hladík would move on based on the findings that I draw from the public media, there are some questionable purchases of family houses, questionable investments and so on. Why does Mr. Jurečka insist on Mr. Hladík and whether KDU-ČSL really is so staffed that she has no other candidate, pure, for this position? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u142	Thank you for keeping time, and Vice Prime Minister Jurečka wants to respond. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u143	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. I confess that to a certain extent the interpellation surprised me from the Member for the ANO movement. I would have understood this much more if I had been interpelling for, say, an MP for the SPD, because talking about personnel futility and the fact that I am now temporarily here for more than two months a minister who is also responsible for the second resort, which sometimes happens in the Party Chairs, but it seems so strange to me from the mouth of an ANO member when there was a situation where the current Vice-President, who sits behind me at the umpiro, has been a minister of two ministries for more than two and a half years - the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Industry and Trade and I have never noticed any interpellation from members of the ANO movement, who would have spoken and asked if it was not some waste of the ANO movement or what it meant, and whether the Ministry of Transport is a less important ministry and the like that. I don't want to be ironic here, but it seems a little strange, at least a little strange. However, the situation itself. It is common in the past that the party leaders, coalition parties, when there is a specific situation, so for some time, yes, usually in the order of weeks, are also responsible for some other resort that needs to be dealt with in their strategy, which they have under the coalition agreement. That's the situation now. In the case of the President's procedure and, say, renowned constitutional lawyers agree that it was contrary to the Constitution, the President's step when he said that he would not appoint Petr Hladík, and I now, in the next period, rely on Petr Hladík to be fully involved in the management of the resort, which has happened. He's not the first deputy, he's Deputy Minister - the law doesn't know the first, second, third deputy today - and I, as the minister, gave him the scope of the agenda that he can carry out for me, just like we do as ministers do when we're on vacation for, say, a week abroad, so we're empowering some of the Deputys to be responsible at the time of the Minister's absence for the Ministry's leadership. It's nothing unusual. So this happened this week on Monday, and I also base myself on the assumption that all three relevant candidates who have higher preferences in terms of presidential polls have said that all three have repeatedly said in media speeches that they would accept the Prime Minister's proposal for appointment. The last days were given this question also in relation to Petr Hladík, so all three here have said that they would name Petr Hladík. As for the question in Brno, the situation is that we have three months since the police had published the steps, and Petr Hladík was invited to give an explanation. As a witness, he was invited to the Sandroom case, in which he is not in any way a person who would be asked, say, to add some evidence and so forth. As for the purchase of their family house, the Hladíkův's husbands, the house has been bought through a real estate agency at a perfectly normal price, so please do not pull these things here, which really are clearly documented, and it has no connection to any advantage and conflict of interest. This was also legally documented. So Petr Hladík is a person who has committed nothing illegal, nothing unfair, I consider him to be a very high-quality and professional candidate for the Minister of the Environment, and I believe that he will definitely become the Minister during March. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u144	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u145	Thank you. Of course, I will not dispute, if Petr Hladík is clean, crystal clear, let him become minister. It's okay. I am also not saying that the President's current approach is completely comfortable, and even as you said correctly, all the presidential candidates, including Mr Babiš, said that he would appoint Mr Hladík if, of course, he were clean. I don't know how he would have acted if he had continued to suspect something. And the fact that you're saying that everything's all right, I'm, of course, coming out - I don't have any access to the file, I'm just a member of the Security Committee, and I'm interested in it from the point of view of security and possible corruption, because you're the government that said that it would do things better, happier and purely - and I have here from public sources that a candidate for the Environment Minister lobbied for the interests of a particular businessman, from whom the family then accidentally bought the house. The businessman happened to have built a road there, which was supposedly up to 2 million overpriced, and so on. So I come from public sources, and that's why I asked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u146	And the question, please, is there any more?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u147	The question is how will the Minister react if, therefore, the police turn Mr. Hladík over, which may happen, into the role of suspect or accused.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u148	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u149	I also have to say clearly, when it was mentioned repeatedly, the husband Hladíkův bought the house from the real estate agency or through the real estate agency on the basis of a public offer. After six years, the city council decided to buy the communication, which was crucial for the transport of children by their parents to kindergarten. It was based on an expert's opinion at a price that is common. It wasn't about lobbying, because Petr Hladík was the deputy responsible for family policy and education, it was right in his gesture. Who we went through community policy, we simply know that these are some basic elementary steps that are simply being done at the level of the city or the municipality, that the municipality is trying to secure key communication, or to agree with investors who are building some housing construction, so that, if necessary, the communication is transferred to the city's administration and to the property above all. So these were the steps that were implemented, which were absolutely logical. And I'm saying again, there's nothing in there that gives any suspicion for any advantage and all that, so I have to completely reject it. And on that question: Petr Hladík, as I said here, it has been more than three months or practically three months since the police had been taking action on this issue in relation to the sale of flats, and I say, the planned sale of flats in Brno, which did not happen, and Petr Hladík was not even charged or charged. So I think it's obvious here that what he's saying clearly, transparently, publicly, patiently answers all the press' questions, that there are simply no assumptions that Petr Gazdík has acted illegally or unfairly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u150	Thank you, and another of the applicants is Mr Lubomír Wenzl, who is interested in intersecting Mr Vice-President Vlastimil Válek with regard to dealing with a critical situation - drugs. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u151	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, the Czech Republic and its citizens are facing a long-term shortage of certain medicines. It certainly does not solve the problem and solve a statement that could not have been meant or seriously, when - I am paraphrasing freely - you advised citizens to call a hundred pharmacies and that they would definitely come across a number of companies where the required product would be available. However, the problem in the care of citizens is also solved by doctors in the context of the crisis at this time or for a longer period of time, for example, in antibiotics. What do you advise them? Do you have advice for them, Minister? What we're going through shows that the problem is deeper but more serious. What else am I asking you, Minister? Does the Ministry you led seek and try to find solutions to prevent or minimise the impact on citizens in a situation where medicinal products are outdated? Or is the Ministry of Health still in the process of monitoring the supply of medicines in Europe and discussing extraordinary imports? Some distributors' public statements also show that there has been no significant shift. Is this situation discussed at government level? Wouldn't one of the solutions, for example, be that the State should keep some of these groups of medicines in the stores of the Treasury and, if necessary, be used? I ask you, Minister, please, Minister, to address this situation, for which I thank you on behalf of the citizens and the professional medical public.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u152	Thank you and I will ask the Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek for Response. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u153	Thank you, Mr President. honourable Members, by your means, honourable Member Wenzl, I will not comment on the introduction, that is not dignified to me or to you, and that is not true, so I think it is unnecessary to dissect it. Now let's talk about the specific stuff. Of course, it is nonsense to do only analysis and not solve the situation, which would certainly not improve the situation. And the fact is -- and that's reality, and that's beautifully verified, beautifully found -- before Christmas Day, we managed to import 340,000 packages of Nurofen. 340 packs of Nurofen are the amount that, in normal years, when we have viral disease here, is enough for a quarter year, even half a year, and another tens of thousands, if not 100,000, will be delivered in January. [[000]] Same way we're dealing with penicillin antibiotics. It's not like all penicillin antibiotics are missing, but there's always one missing from that category. And we have not only managed to stabilize the situation in part, but from many countries we have taken advantage of the fact that we have a law approved by this Honored House and the Senate and then signed by the President, who has given us from 1. Last year's 12th allowed the delivery of medicines to extraordinary imports. We were preparing for the situation, which is why we put the law in the Chamber of Deputies, and that is what we have now done. We brought not only penicillin antibiotics, but amoxicillin. We imported it... a relatively large quantity, between January 15th and February 20th, there will gradually be more deliveries in total strength up to a quarter of a million packages and, of course, in different grams, in different concentrations. We import other antibiotics, we talk about azithromycin, now in early January, in the middle of January there will be another eight packs of targeted penicillin antibiotics, by the end of the week 37,000 packs of commonly registered medicines from the European Union, which we have asked for and bought. [[1000]] Of course, we deal with this problem on a regular basis in the government, and I will carry a few medications for the next government, where I will want special approval. We'll keep going, we're already set for the beginning of February azithromycin in the number of 100,000 packages, another delivery from another distributor. We are dealing not only with manufacturers, but also with distributors, and I will know the exact numbers and exact quantities on Friday, so everything will be heard at a press conference. Of course, I will also coordinate the distribution of antibiotics in some way, which is why we have created a group that also includes representatives or the president of the pharmacy, because there is a huge need for cooperation with pharmacists. We need to thank the pharmacist here because they're under incredible pressure and stress, we all know that, but they're completely innocent. Finally, by mid-January, there will be another 86,000 packages of Nurofen, but I've already said that. It must be said that the situation is a problem throughout Europe. It must be said that antibiotics are missing throughout Europe, and I will not lie. Here we have to say that even if I can guarantee that our patients' lives will never be threatened, because the drugs would be missing, we'll have to be much more flexible in prescribing antibiotics. We're gonna have to break a little bit of the paradigm, and we're gonna have to always have the antibiotics from the penicillin series that are available. But they'll be available. That is why we are dealing with practical doctors, with relevant associations, and that is why we need to provide the most accurate online information - again, it is the task of the group I created before this year, at the end of last year, which must provide this information in a much clearer form and in a far more accessible form than SÚKLU did. It is not possible for doctors to find out in a complicated way on the SÚKL website, what is where it is, and they did not fully know which pharmacy it is in. Here we will need - and I am fully aware - very close cooperation with professional companies, with the pharmacy chamber, with others involved, including distributors. I'm sure the situation is going well. I certainly don't plan on taking a triumphant picture of myself, as some of my predecessors - and not just ministers - did at the various boxes I brought here, and I certainly don't plan on going to my friends to buy them medicine. I'm really gonna work on having the drugs here, and they're here, and we need to thank Deputy Dvořáček's team... and his colleagues. [[Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u154	Thank you. Is there any further interest in the follow-up question? Yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u155	Thank you, Minister, for your reply, but I would like to return to my first contribution - to try to use the Ministry of State's material reserves, because I believe, even if there were some things, there would be an expiration, no one will blame the government for this, because it is just some package of something that would serve in case of need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u156	The Minister still has an interest in responding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u157	I'm sorry, and thank you for asking. Mr President, by your means, to the honourable Member. By being both paramedics, I think we're gonna realize that rock of injury. Material reserves can't distribute the drugs, which means there's a major problem. Therefore, in the draft law that will come, I hope, in the first quarter of the Chamber of Deputies or in the second quarter, we want these stocks of drugs to be held by distributors in individual categories - and perhaps now they will be completed in the foreseeable time of analysis of all those categories. That means, I want distributors to have supplies for all medicines that have cyclical deficiencies. I'd like at least three months, but I'm willing to debate two months, and we'll see what the Chamber of Deputies has to say about that. The second thing I want in situations that are similar to this, we can do what some other states do, and with some of you I have discussed this across the political spectrum so that we can prevent buying and then trading on the Internet. Not because I mind business, but because it's unethical, immoral, and especially extremely risky. If the drugs are not stored properly, there may be major damage to the patients. Therefore, I would like to be able in the law to have the possibility, if a free-selling drug falls out, so that we can regulate the free-selling drug, for example, that it will be issued only to the needy and only the amount of packaging that is really necessary to avoid buying, because unfortunately this happened at the end of last year, and that is one of the consequences that we have today. However, there is no point crying over spilled milk, these are the legislative changes that are prepared, and the steps that we are doing now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u158	Thank you and I will ask another of the duly enrolled, which is Mr Igor Hendrych, who will interpel the duly excused Minister Blažek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u159	Thank you, thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, honourable members of the government... and now I'm looking around, okay, I see the Minister, he's still here, okay, I'll wait for a written reply from Minister Blažek. [[President: The Minister is here.]] My interpelation is aimed at information on the results of the work group's work, which may have been set up on the basis of a coalition to deal with reducing the number of people in prison in the Czech Republic. I've already talked about this here once this week. I acknowledge this activity because we are, like the Czech Republic, quite badly in this regard. We are, I believe, behind Lithuania in the European Union, a second state with the highest number of people in prison. There are perhaps only countries of the former Soviet Union and Turkey in the whole of Europe ahead of us. There's something to be done about this here, because it's very deep in my opinion. I've registered it from the media, it's been confirmed to me here in the galleys by some colleagues that this group actually works or started to work, so I'm really interested in the results of her activities, or her program content. I would not ask if this group were to associate with the authorities that operate within the Chamber of Deputies, such as the subcommittee on prisonhood, or the subcommittee on the inclusion of people after the execution of the sentence. That hasn't happened yet, so I'm asking you, how does this group work, what's the program, what's the results? That's all for me at the moment. Thank you for your attention and for the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u160	Thank you. As I have already said, Minister Blažek is duly excused, so I will ask Mr Janulík to interpel Mr Vice Prime Minister Válek about the lack of medicine.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u161	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear handful present, Minister, I'm not going to extend it to you about the medications. Actually, I would have the same question as everyone who asked about the drugs today, so I think it's pointless to extend it. But just a note about that. Of course, the consequences or the result that has now emerged are the result of a long-lasting, long-lasting state in Europe in general. But it's not exactly Europe, because I didn't agree with your claim that it is also in the surrounding states. It wasn't, because I have a crow flies about 1,100 meters on the Austrian border, and last Thursday, I went to the Austrian pharmacy, which I'm closest to, basically just outside the border, and I found that it doesn't solve the problem, at all. I asked the magistrate what they had, I asked if they had a problem with any blackouts, what do we call it - marginally. So my question is, how is that possible? How is it that I did not notice anything like this in Austria, and if it would not be good in this case to learn from them? Maybe they don't have the electronic recipe that we have, we beat them to it, they're totally bad at it. But here in this case, I think it would be a good idea to learn from them somehow, because obviously that system works there in some way. I put it here when they have a phrase in advertising that's been there for decades: "Talk to your doctor or pharmacist about side effects" - that's just for everyone. That's what I recommended that we take over, and that's just gonna solve it for decades. So the question is, how is it that this has not happened in the other states, and if it would not be good to learn from them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u162	Thank you. The Minister will respond. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u163	Thank you, Mr President. By your means, Mr Janulík is and is wrong. I'll try to explain, although five minutes isn't a long time, but I will. So the first thing is the regulator. As we have the State Office of Nuclear Safety, and it actually regulates anything about radiation - if any emergency is related to radiation, everyone turns to the Director, to the President of Drábová, who comments - we also have a regulator on drugs, and this is the State Institute for Drug Control. He fulfills the role of regulator, but let's say that his duties are not defined in such a clear way that - and we all know that from the health committee when the discussions were going on - he provides information to doctors actively to investigate the amount of drugs in pharmacies on the Czech market. He's de facto filling the situation with information from manufacturers about how much they've produced and delivered, and that's it. But if the drugs are, they're not at the market where they're... As is the SUJB regulator, if he did this, so of course there can be a number of problems, and this can also happen in the case of SÚKL. I don't want to look for a culprit right now, though I might say my opinion, but it is necessary to clearly define the duties of the SÚKL. That office has a lot more employees than the entire Department of Health, over 500 of them, and the Ministry has less than 500 of them. The second problem is that the situation was really in all countries. I have personally spoken to several ministers - Austrian, Finnish, French, German - but we have also consulted other authorities in these countries, and the situation has been in all countries, but it has spread gradually in those countries. Why? Now I'll explain. You know as well as I do, through Mr President, that any company does not produce those medicines for all states at once, but it always produces one lot per country. At the time of the problems, for example, for Austria, the lot was already produced and has not yet been produced for the Czech Republic. If there has been an API failure or any market problems, this situation has occurred. The second problem is that the production plans are made for individual markets based on estimates that are 12 to 18 months ago, because we have to say that the problem is not central medicine, oncological preparations, expensive preparations, but affects free-market drugs, which is absolutely absurd, because if I use a stupid example of it on the market - but I use it - it discovers a lack of Milka chocolate, what happens? Right away, all the manufacturers are gonna start making that chocolate and it's gonna be an excess. But it didn't happen here, because even if it's a free-selling preparation, it can be sold here, there's no problem with the price, it determines the market, so manufacturers produce the preparation for about a year and a half in advance, and they just can't catch up on production in any way. The third problem that was, and that was the problem. We ordered a terrible amount of these drugs in 2020 and 2021. The reasons were different, but basically when you think that antibiotics have an expiration period of two years, there was no supply here, because the consumption was some, and we ordered a small amount of the drugs from the logic of things, because respiratory diseases fell, we focused on covid. That means the situation is the same in all countries now. There are countries that are dramatically worse off than we are. A typical example is Germany, which has a central purchase, centrally buys these drugs from one distributor, and so when the one fell out, they don't have them. In some cases Slovakia is better off, in many cases worse, so Slovak citizens come here to shop. But if the situation is addressed only in one country and it is not addressed at a European level - which we immediately raised in the framework of our Presidency, I have now written a letter, it is now fourteen days, the Swedish Minister and so I have turned to the European institutions - if we only deal with it in one country, let us say that there will be enough medicine in the Czech Republic and not in Slovakia. Well, what happens? Slovak citizens will come here and buy drugs either or fake them with Slovak regulations, because this is possible in Europe, it is de facto nothing to do with it. This means that we must provide short-term supplies for Czech citizens, and we are doing this, to adjust legislation in the medium term so that we have supplies with distributors, so that the situation does not recur in the future, to get pharmaceutical production into Europe in the long term, so that we are self-sufficient and will not get into trouble again. And the Czech Republic must be a pioneer in this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-013-137.u164	Thank you, for a second, exactly. Is Mr Janulík interested in an additional question? [[I don't.]] Not anymore. If not, then I will conclude the discussion of today's day, because according to the Rules of Procedure, the last interview can be submitted at the latest at 17.55 hours and at this time we have 17.57 hours. I am of the opinion that we have closed the oral questioning for today's meeting. Thank you all for your attention and for your cooperation, and I remind you that we will meet tomorrow at 9 a.m. and we will continue this meeting. Goodbye.
