ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-004-015.u1	15. Government bill amending Act No. 269/1994 Coll., on the Criminal Register, as amended, and some other laws /house print 383/ - first reading On behalf of the government, Minister Michal Šalomoun will present the proposal. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-004-015.u2	Madam President, honourable Members, the main objective of the draft law, amending the Act on the Criminal Register and certain other laws, is to abolish the Criminal Register as a separate organizational component of the State and transfer its agenda to the Ministry of Justice. At the time of the adoption of the Criminal Register Act, the register of convictions for the extensive agenda was held by the Criminal Register with several territorial branches. In view of the electronisation of the entire agenda, this need has already been overcome and the Register of Penalty is probably the only institution whose main task is the management of records. This proposal, which is based on the requirements for rationalization of the state administration, has a positive budgetary impact as it will bring annual savings on the means of payment and operating costs of approximately CZK 1.9 million. It should be pointed out that there is only a change in the entity that is currently kept by the criminal record. The proposal does not alter the rules for the conduct of criminal records and offences and for the provision of exits from them. There is no change in the definition of cases where information may be requested from such records. Another major change is the adaptation of the process of recording data on convictions of Czech citizens by the courts of other Member States of the European Union or the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. These convictions will be newly reported automatically in an annex not only to the copy, but also to the extract from the criminal record of the Register, as shall information from the home state be reported in cases where the extract of the Criminal Register is requested by a citizen of another Member State of the European Union.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-004-015.u3	Thank you, Minister. I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, Mr Josef Cogan. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-004-015.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to follow up on the Minister who made this proposal. This is a rather non-conflict matter. Indeed, the Act on the Criminal Register will be amended by moving the execution of the agenda of the Criminal Register, which is not the organizational component of the state, directly to the Ministry of Justice, especially those considerations are precisely to rationalise the state administration. The substantive agenda of the Criminal Register will basically be maintained, and the amendment of the law is therefore an effort to make the registration process more effective and a positive economic and financial impact, as mentioned here, is also expected. The amendment also changes the process of recording the data of convicted Czech citizens by courts of other Member States and the United Kingdom, where current legislation applies precisely different approaches to citizens of the Czech Republic and citizens of other Member States of the European Union and the United Kingdom. The amendment should delete these differences as unfounded and unify access to all these persons, that is, that will be a new extract from the Criminal Register concerning a citizen of the Czech Republic, who would be convicted by the courts of other Member States of the European Union and the United Kingdom, containing these data automatically, as was said, here in the annex to the extract from the Criminal Register. It will also be possible to provide data contained in the Criminal Register in an anonymous and pseudo-anonymised form for research purposes only for specified entities and for defined purposes. I can sum up that the amendment therefore brings the desired change in this field of registration both practically and legally. So far, the Organizing Committee has proposed constitutional-legal as a guarantee committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-004-015.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. Please take the floor at the news desk. Do I open a general debate and ask if anyone is reporting to the general debate? Yes, Mr. Feranec. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-004-015.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Dear members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, only briefly to this law. It has already been said that there is actually a change, the central government will become a department, a department of the ministry, which I'm sure we don't have a problem with. [[17,00 hours]] I would just like to ask, I will use the Minister, because the next change is actually in the way of recording the conviction of Czech citizens in another Member State of the European Union or the United Kingdom that it will automatically be in a copy or in an annex to the extract. I'll just ask the Minister, will I use it to see if there can be a situation where a Czech citizen will be convicted in a state - that can happen - for a crime that may not be a crime in our country? I don't know if such a case could occur, I suppose so, and by automatically registering in the statement, it will not then meet the requirements for certain matters, for the pursuit of certain professions or activities in the Czech Republic, if the Minister could explain it, because if this were the case, then the question is whether - but of course it will be a question of debate at second reading and so on - if it would not be a bit of an effect that our citizen would be convicted of a crime somewhere that may not be a criminal offence in our country, it would actually be affected in the territory of the Czech Republic that it might prevent him from doing any profession. Only if the Minister can explain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-004-015.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the government, have a good afternoon. I see the Minister is reporting. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-004-015.u8	Thank you for that question. She's quite theoretical and it's probably gonna be quite an interesting discussion on some committee. However, the explanatory memorandum already states that this amendment will not allow a conviction to be denounced by the condemning state and so that the social rehabilitation of the convicted person is not threatened. It's an interesting question, but the details, except for the committees directly with the petitioner.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-004-015.u9	I thank you and ask if anyone else is still reporting to the general debate? I see no one in the room reporting, in which case I am ending the general debate. And I want to ask the Minister, the rapporteur, if you want to take the final floor? You want the final word? It's not like that. Now, then, we will consider the motion on the commandment to the committees for discussion, because there has not been a proposal on return or rejection. First of all, we will decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee - I will convene colleagues from the lobby - and the organizational committee has proposed ordering the proposed proposal to discuss the constitutional and legal committee as a guarantee committee. And I'm asking if anyone is proposing a commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I see no proposal, in which case I will vote. I will repeat once again what I am going to vote on, and this is who agrees that the proposal tabled should be ordered to discuss the constitutionally-legal committee as a guarantee committee. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 119, registered 145... 146 Members and Members, for proposal 104, against no one. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the constitutionally-legal committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. I ask, does anyone have a motion on the commandment to the next committee or committees? I see no proposal, and in that case, there is nothing to vote on. I'm done discussing this point, and thank you. I will read the apologies: from 17:00 to 18:00 for work reasons, Mr Marek Výborný apologies and from 16.35 Minister Vít Rakušan apologizes for work reasons. I'm opening another point in today's meeting, and that's
