ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-002-005.u1	5. Government bill amending Act No. 325/1999 Coll., on Asylum, as amended, Act No. 326/1999 Coll., on the residence of foreigners in the territory of the Czech Republic and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, and other related laws /house print 387/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted shall be made by the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of the Interior Vít Rakušan. Minister, please take the floor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-002-005.u2	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, fellow Members, a brief introduction to the material. Allow me to present the Government's proposal for an amendment to the Asylum Act, the Alien Residence Act and eight other legal norms. This proposal, and I would like to point out, follows up on the proposal of the previous Government of 2020, which has not been completed during the previous parliamentary term. We therefore continue and complete the work already under way in the last parliamentary term. Firstly, it is an amendment to the Asylum Act, for another law on the residence of foreigners, and it is, among other things, a necessary implementation of the law of the European Union, to which the Czech Republic has been repeatedly called upon by the European Commission. Firstly, it is the first major amendment to the Asylum Act since 2015. Its main objective is to make the current legislation more effective, in particular administrative procedures in matters of international protection and follow-up proceedings before administrative courts. The proposal also responds to problems arising in practice. For another, the draft amendment to the Act on the residence of foreigners contains changes resulting from the so-called Schengen evaluation, which the Czech Republic passed in 2019. The main impulse for its amendment is the need to modify the sub-parametrics of the Blue Card Institute, due to a change in the employment directive requiring high qualifications. Here's a short remark. In the case of specialized professions such as IT specialists, documented education may be replaced by documented and documented practice in the field. This means that a high IT specialist may not have a higher education in the field of higher education, yet he is obviously an expert in his field, which can prove this. It is, of course, guided by the interest of having such specialists in our labour market, who will actually and unambiguously help. Thirdly, I will certainly make the opposition, whether the SPD or the ANO movement, happy here, because I have been repeatedly called upon by coalition MPs on the Security Committee - together with the Ministry of Justice, we have prepared a proposal to tighten criminal sanctions for smuggling and to allow for more effective prosecution of perpetrators. Following this adjustment, there is a great deal of demand between law enforcement authorities in relation to the current migration wave. Our foreign partners are also interested in this adjustment. First of all, the main change is that these perpetrators would automatically be prosecuted or suspected of a criminal offence, for another one it is also a proposal to raise rates for this crime. Why I am talking about foreign partners - even under our Presidency, we have tried to achieve some unity in the approach in the various countries of the European Union so that there is no sort of illegitimate incentive for smuggling groups to use such states where they are threatened with lower sanctions than in other countries. It is therefore in the interests of the security of the Czech Republic that such tightening of sanctions should take place. We, with the Justice Department, have identified the first suitable legal medium to make such a change possible. Other regulations from the Ministry of Health gesture are also affected, in particular it is proposed to include underage children with a long-term stay in the public health insurance system. The stability of the public health insurance system will be ensured by the fact that parents will pay premiums for their children at the same rate as currently paid by persons without taxable income. According to information from the Ministry of Health, this change would contribute to the public health insurance system in higher tens of millions of crowns per year. [[18.00 hours]] I have deliberately set out the most basic points of this bill precisely so that it is not misinterpreted by anyone in the debate as a law that extends some possibilities for some sort of illegal migration or something like that. On the contrary, this law significantly strengthens against the worst perpetrators of crimes, which are smugglers, and this law defines new and better conditions for legal migration, which is required by all the economic chambers for granting blue cards, whose validity could increase from two to three years and mean greater stability for employers if they employ even highly qualified foreigners in the territory of the Czech Republic. And, as I mentioned once before, we also face the demand of our industry, our economic chambers, in qualifying assumptions. Thus, there is no authorisation in these legal regulations for any illegal person to enter the territory of the Czech Republic, on the contrary. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-002-005.u3	Thank you and please take the floor of the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Petr Letocha. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-002-005.u4	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I would like to refer to the Minister. The Government has submitted a bill amending Act No. 325/1999 Coll., on Asylum, Act No. 326/1999 Coll., on the residence of foreigners in the territory of the Czech Republic, and on the amendment of certain laws, and other related laws. This proposal was approved by the Government on 8 February 2023, the House was submitted the following day and distributed as House press number 387. The main purpose of the proposed adjustment is, in addition to the fulfilment of the commitments arising from European law, as the Minister has already indicated, to respond to the changes that have occurred in this area since the last major amendment. In the Czech Republic, the number of applicants for international protection has increased over the long term, which is the response of the proposed changes, which I will now briefly introduce to you. The proposed amendment to the Asylum Act aims to clarify some of the existing definitions in such a way as to avoid any further interpretational problems. In particular, it is a clarification of the definition of asylum seekers and persons enjoying supplementary protection. As a result, it will not be possible for one person to fall into different categories according to different administrations, thus facilitating communication in general within public authorities. Furthermore, there will be a clarification of the institutes that were gradually incorporated into the Asylum Act on the basis of the implementation of European regulations, which could also be interpreted by different institutions. This amendment will also make international protection procedures, including follow-up judicial review more effective, especially through the introduction of procedural deadlines which have not yet been clearly established. The last of the more significant amendments to the Asylum Act aims to adjust the conditions of applicants for international protection, restrictions or cancellation of part of the contributions for certain groups of such applicants and their replacement of the possibilities to work in such a way that they are motivated to take a more active approach. The proposed amendment to the Act on the residence of foreigners aims to adjust the conditions for granting so-called blue cards and work cards, which will make it easier for highly qualified persons to operate on the Czech labour market. Here I would like to draw attention to the fact that the deadline for the integration of this institute into the Czech legal system from European law will expire in mid-November this year. There will also be a modification of the Institute of the exit order, namely to tighten its regime so that it does not happen that a person who is required to travel outside the Czech Republic is basically just released from the detention facility and the state completely loses control over its further movement. Related changes are, for example, the amendment of the Criminal Code and the Public Health Insurance Act. Within the framework of criminal law, the conditions for committing offences in the field of smuggling are being adjusted, as the Minister has already mentioned, so that such criminal activity can be more effectively prosecuted. There will also be a tightening of the penalties for this crime. For example, who, in the course of illegal transfer of migrants, exposes a greater number of such persons to inhuman or degrading treatment, will be punished with two to eight years of imprisonment. As part of the proposed amendment to the Public Health Insurance Act, children who have been allowed a long-term stay in the Czech Republic will be transferred to the public health insurance system. So far, these children have had a special private health insurance scheme that was more expensive for their parents, and the health services that were covered by this insurance were not so wide. Thus parents will have to pay insurance, but it will be a lower amount than they had to pay for private insurance today, and the care that will be paid to their children will be wider. In addition, this premium will be paid to the public health insurance system, which, according to the Ministry of Health data, will reach it by CZK 50 to 100 million a year. In addition, this amount envisages the expenses that the public health insurance undertaking will have for these children. This is therefore a net profit which will have a public health insurance system at the expense of health insurance companies outside the public system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-002-005.u5	I thank the rapporteur and open the general debate in which Mr Koten is signed up. Before the Member arrives, I will add two apologies: Mrs Babišová Andrea apologises from 18 o'clock for work reasons and Mr Svoboda Pavel from 18 o'clock for work reasons. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-002-005.u6	Thank you. Madam President, Minister, dear government, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good evening and allow me to comment on this law. It is a very comprehensive law and there are really many changes compared to the previous version. This EU designation for the SPD usually means such an exclamation point and many directives are incorporated into our legal order. And as is customary, the devil can often be hidden in a tiny detail. So I read these changes on more than 320 pages of text and I am struck by the fact that a new term is proposed - instead of "Czech citizenship," this term is replaced by the term "European citizenship." I don't know that expression, I don't know what to imagine under this term, but hopefully the Minister will explain it to me in some way, if it is Němec, Francouz, Brit, Slovák or Ukrajinec. They're all geographically in Europe. But this term or definition can probably be used in the future - it may, may not - for example, for sending migrants from individual EU countries to or outside other EU countries, because, for example, the UK is no longer in the European Union now. Furthermore, the law refers to the EU directive, which I will quote. It is the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council EC No. 810/2009 Coll. of July 13, 2009. It is about the Community Code on Visas, it is a visa code and it is accompanied by "as amended'. That valid text was not there, i.e. in the original version, and I believe - or perhaps you will mislead me - that if the European Union issues any new updates to this directive, it will automatically apply in this law of ours. I see it as such a blank check, but if you do, correct me. The last important fragment is one quote, i.e. from the law, and I quote: "Point D. The main purpose of the employer's activity is to facilitate the entry of third-country nationals.' End of quote. How am I supposed to understand that? Is this support for the import of cheap labour from countries outside the European Union, from Africa, Bangladesh, Eritrea and so on or from other African states? For the protection of the Czech labour market, this means a kind of danger to the breach of social reconciliation and possibly deepening the economic problems of citizens of the Czech Republic. What I'm saying is an increase in the punishment of the smugglers. That's what I think is one of the good things that's there. There is one more thing that puzzles me that this law has been passed. So I don't know what the reason is, but, of course, that in itself raises some suspicion that this is a priority for a government coalition, and that priority is somewhat higher, and I don't know what the real reason for his pre-election is. For these reasons, which I have said here, I would suggest that we return this law to the petitioner for revision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-002-005.u7	Thank you. The Minister is calling for a word. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-002-005.u8	I will, of course, answer the question raised there in substance, but through Madam President, Mr Member, please do not raise any concerns, tensions and fears where it is absolutely unnecessary and pointless, just to create such emotions in society, just to assume here somewhere that the government is presenting something secretly, subtly, in order to allow some entry of Afričan into the territory of the Czech Republic. It's total nonsense, and I'm a little worried that you know you're talking nonsense. And then the question is, why are you putting them on public air here? Let me give you an answer as to why we have put this law before us. You answered yourself, through Madam Vice-President, because it tightens the penalties for smuggling and because we need to tighten the penalties for smuggling as quickly as possible. The migration wave will not wait for Members to come to this as a 28th proposal after all the obstructions that we have witnessed in recent days and months. We want this bill in the Senate as soon as possible signed by the President, precisely so that the smugglers will have such severe penalties in the Czech Republic as they have in Slovakia or Hungary. It's in the real interest of preventing another migration wave as a precaution. Here I think we are quite exceptionally in line with what you repeatedly present on the Security Committee. On the contrary, I thought we would find maximum support for you. In order to tighten up the penalties for smuggling, we need logically some legislative medium - I think we are Members at the same time - and this one is absolutely appropriate because it is thematically really all about it. And let's not scare people from third countries into allowing us to enter our territory, that's just terminus techicus. But those third countries, in the case of legal migration, I repeat, legal migration, are determined by us - in the long term. The last government did it, this government does it. We determine the number of people from individual countries within the specific exact quotas that we want in our territory within the framework of legal labour migration - not to make life difficult for Czech people, but to help in such professions and segments of industry, which simply cannot be without the labour force from abroad. Let us distinguish between our discussion - and you know it, you just know it and you don't deliberately distinguish it - between legal labour migration, which is organised precisely by the Czech state in the long term, regardless of what kind of government there is. It's a very good performance by the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and this just works. That's what this law applies to, and I repeat it again, you know it. As far as EU citizenship is concerned, this is a definition of primary European Union law, and I want to say, if you read the laws well, through Madam President, this is a tightening change. On the contrary, the disappearance of asylum is easier, not the emergence, but the demise of asylum, so here I assumed the idea of support from your party in some way as well. Next: ease of entry. I don't really know what you mean, because if you know what blue cards are, blue cards are a matter of highly qualified and highly income on the labour market of foreigners, such as IT experts, academics, doctors and so on. So now I don't know why you've got people from third countries involved. We are dealing with labour and legal migration and asylum under applicable asylum law. You're just making yourself nervous again. As you hear asylum, you get illegal migration involved. We're not talking about that at all. If so, about tightening the punishments for the smugglers. I am glad that you support this at least, and if you vote in favour of it, the punishments for the smugglers will be tightened quickly. I think it is in the interests of the security of citizens of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-002-005.u9	Thank you. Another one for the general debate is Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová. [[Mr Koten reporting.]] General or factual? In fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-002-005.u10	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, Minister, fellow Members, I would also like to speak on behalf of the ANO movement on the proposed asylum and residence law for foreigners. I would like to begin by saying that we have recently had negotiations directly at the Ministry of the Interior, where Mrs. Director of the Asylum and Migration Policy Department, Mrs. Novotná, was also present, and we have also talked about this law. And I am very glad that what we have asked the Minister to do many times on the Security Committee, and that is tightening the conditions for the smugglers, for the smuggling gangs. I would also like to stress that the number of illegal migrants compared to 2015, when we had around 3,000 illegal migrants here, and this number this year is over 20,000 illegal migrants, so it is very good that the Minister of the Interior managed to include this law at today's meeting, because if I am not mistaken, it was only 14 days ago that he was in the government and we can discuss it here immediately. And I think that the path that we asked for and which is the content of the law, and that is tightening up for the smugglers, when we learned clearly on the Security Committee that of course the huge number was found, so did Mr. Police President, 41 criminal offences, and those smugglers are both from the Czech Republic, Syria, Ukraine, Moldova, Georgia and, of course, from other countries, so it is very good that a tightening will take place as soon as possible. And I've also stressed that we've requested this from the Security Committee, and it's a good thing it's here at the moment. The YES movement will support it. And I'm sure we'll still have a discussion on the Security Committee or on some of the other things that are contained there. But I can see that the Minister of the Interior is presenting this precisely on the basis of the appeal he was on the Security Committee. We need to tighten up the punishments for the smugglers and for the smuggling gangs, it's very necessary. And we're really glad it's on the agenda today. So that's for the YES movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-002-005.u11	Thank you. Mr Koten is reporting with a factual point of view. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-002-005.u12	Thank you for the floor. Thank you, Home Secretary, for explaining some things to me. Of course, the punishments for smuggling, that's one of the problems we've been dealing with here for a long time, and it's safe to say that if this is where the law is going to deal with these things, then of course it's okay. The only thing I would point out about this: I still don't understand the terminus technique, the European citizenship. That's one of the things that keeps... I know that the European Union wants to have some sort of unification, and so it wants to have some sort of order in the citizenships so that it does not have to say that it is Němec or that it is Euroněmec-German or that it is Europolák or Euročech-Czech, so it introduces the concept of European citizenship. But as such, I do not know him from anything, nor do I know if I am a European citizen. I feel like Čech, so that is exactly what I need to explain, how it will somehow improve the issue for citizens living in different states, whether it is Hungary, Poland, the Czech Republic and the like, or Austria. So I'd have to ask the Minister to explain it to me a little bit. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-002-005.u13	Thank you for keeping time. Another with a factual note written is signed by Minister Rakušan. Minister, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-002-005.u14	Just a little while longer. I would like to thank Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová for her support for this proposal, and I am pleased that she has also summed up the debate from the Security Committee. However, I would like to say that not only the opposition, but also the coalition members of the Security Committee called for me to prepare as quickly as possible tightening up the penalties for smuggling, for which I thank the Minister Blažek for his cooperation, because, of course, there was a need for close cooperation between the Ministry of Justice in the intervention into criminal rates. This is not the Gesture of the Ministry of the Interior, but as I said, this is presented in our close cooperation. [[18.20 hours]] And for Mr Koten for a very short time. I think that the European Union personally, through Madam President, does not want you to feel one way or another, only simplifying the primary European legislation defines European citizenship as citizenship of any of the Member States of the European Union. It's just a simplistic terminus techicus, which, Mr Koten, certainly does not oblige you to say that you are Evropan anywhere. I understand that it would hurt you - not me personally, but it really is the terminus technicus.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-002-005.u15	Thank you for keeping the time and the last one, with a point of fact, is signed up by Mr Lang. Ambassador, your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-002-005.u16	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to say here for the YES movement, as my previous speaker said, our shadow secretary of the interior, despite the fact that this file is extensive, we have no problem with that, we will support it for the YES movement. And I would like to say that for years, the foreign police have actually asked to tighten up the punishments for smuggling, and if it accelerated the Ukraine-Russia war conflict, let's just say, well. And I would like to say, although I do not say this often, that at this point I would also like to commend the Ministry of the Interior and Minister Rakušan for preparing this press, which we have participated in across the political spectrum, and at certain moments that concern, for example, general security, it is obvious that we can also find a consensus on certain non-conflict matters. I'd like to thank you for that, and I think it's really the press that shouldn't be conflicting. I don't want to stretch it out, and I think we should let it go completely calmly until the next reading. So thank you for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-002-005.u17	I also thank you for keeping time. The rapporteur is logged in. Mr. Rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-002-005.u18	Thank you, too. I see that there is almost a match here for what the Minister said, and I also thank Mrs Vildumetzová Mračková for these words. Since the effectiveness of this law is proposed from 1. 7. I would like to propose a reduction in the time limits for committee discussions by 30 days to 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-002-005.u19	Thank you, and since no one else is reporting to the general debate, I am ending the general debate. I want to ask if there is an interest in the final words - the Minister, the rapporteur? [[They didn't show interest.]] Thank you. Given that he has not challenged the motion to refer back or reject the proposal, we will now consider the proposal on the commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion of the Security Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I don't see anyone. I noticed an interest in the check-out, so I checked you all out. Please sign up with your cards. Thank you, I have received a warning from Mr Koten that a proposal has been made for the drafting of the proposal, that is, for the drafting of the proposer, that is, first of all, we have to deal with this proposal here. I'm gonna have all my colleagues show up. But since I see that most of the colleagues are already in the hall, we will now be voting on the return of the proposed proposal to the applicant for completion. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 38, 145 Members and Members signed in for 17, versus 80. The motion was not accepted. And so now we come to the commandment of the guarantee committee. As I said before, the proposal was directed to the Security Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I don't see anyone, so we'll take the vote. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 39, 148 Members and Members registered, for 147, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Security Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to another committee or committees to discuss? I don't see anyone. In the general debate, a proposal was made to shorten or extend the time limit pursuant to Paragraph 91 (1) of the Treaty. 2 and 3. Let me ask you one more time - the shortening of the deadline has been proposed, Mr rapporteur... for 30 days. Thank you. So I'm opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 40, registered 150 Members and Members, for 132, against no one. The motion was accepted. I'm done discussing this point. I will add my apologies: Mr Sadovskýý Petr apologizes from 18.30 to 20.30 for business reasons and Mr Milan Wenzl from 18.30 for health reasons. I'm opening another point.
