ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 65th session of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. I inform you that in a few moments our meeting hall will be visited by the President of the Republic, Mr.Pavel. So I'm going to ask you to keep your voice down. [[It sounds fanfare from the opera Libuše. All present rise, President Peter Paul enters the hall. After taking the seat on the right of the President of the Chamber of Deputies, the national anthem was heard.]] Dear guests, allow me to welcome the President of the Republic, Mr Petr Pavel, among us, and give him my word. Please, Mr. President. [[The president stepped on top of the speaker's desk, then pushed him aside.]] There's no need to take advantage of that step. There's a little bit of growth for us here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-000-000.u2	Madam President, honourable Members, Prime Minister, Madam and Ministers, the milestone of the first hundred days in office is coming very quickly, and I am really glad that I can complete it by visiting the Chamber of Deputies. The House is at the heart of our political system. The majority of the Houses are grown by the government, and opposition is being formed on the House soil. There are major political debates and clashes between the political parties. I am a citizen's president, and I have been elected in direct elections, yet - or perhaps precisely because - I would like to say clearly that I consider political parties to be an essential basis for democratic competition. Without political parties, there is no representative democracy. However, political responsibility cannot be reduced only to the parties themselves. Some might think that individual Members are too hidden in the shadows of their parties, but that is not the case. Just as I and each of you are the representative of your constituents, you will be filing accounts for them in the next elections and defending your mandates before them, even if on the list of your party. However, we cannot overlook the fact that a huge number of voters, although they have cast their vote in the previous parliamentary elections, do not have their representatives in the Chamber of Deputies. I perceive their frustration because their voices have fallen, and today they feel that no one is representing them here in the House. Therefore, please think about them in your work as well. And then there are a number of those whose trust in a representative institution is so low, and the feeling that they can't do anything with their voice is so strong that they didn't even come to the election. You can also make all these citizens feel that they are finally represented if they feel that you are interested in how they live, what they are worried about, what they are dealing with, and how the laws you judge and decide on are coming into effect on them. The way you work throughout its wide range depends on how people will perceive democracy itself, how they will trust our democratic institutions and how solid the democratic system in which we live will be. It is certainly not up to you, it is the work and task of all of us who have entered into active politics and who are responsible for the future of this country. I realize that the House is the main political collaborator. The political struggles are, of course, more heated and tougher here than in the Senate, for example, and it is perfectly natural. As much as I understand these struggles, I, like a number of susceptible voters, am surprised at their fierceness, and sometimes, unfortunately, the paralysis of the entire House, which they lead to. I miss more mutual listening and tolerance between the government's majority and the opposition. Before the election, I have stressed that I want to communicate with both the government and the opposition. Of course, I communicate quite often with the Prime Minister and the ministers who are currently responsible for the administration of the country. As President of the Republic, however, I see with all due respect the role of the parliamentary opposition. It is an indispensable part of democratic institutions in our country. I understand the role of the opposition that it should always offer a credible alternative to the government and present its citizens with real solutions to the political problems that we face. At the same time, however, I consider it important that there should be an effort between the government and the opposition to find some long-term common priorities and points of contact on which it is possible and often necessary to agree. Good solutions can come from both the government and the opposition. I do not consider it good that key and long-term policies such as foreign policy orientation, rules of responsible management, energy concepts, a sustainable environment or pension security for today's and future seniors should be subject to changes in every government rotation. [[14.10 hours]] As President of the Republic, I would like to contribute to the search for such an elementary consensus. I consider this entirely natural and as my priority task, precisely because I am not linked to any party, either government or opposition, and my aim is to carry out the President's office sideways and for the benefit of the entire society. I want to be the president of all citizens, even those who did not vote for me and who, on the contrary, need to be the voters of some of your parties. I consider it a common task for all of us who have entered politics in this country to seek consensus where it makes sense and where the long-term interests of our country require it. I will dampen the conflicts within our society and hold a factual and open dialogue instead. The consensus of political parties on our country's key priorities will not be possible if there is a strongly divided society on these issues and if some politicians or aspirants continue to deliberately divide society into policies. I will be very happy to try to go in the same direction in these efforts to create a political and social consensus. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-000-000.u3	Thank you for your words, Mr. President. Freedom secures the balance of power. The relationship between the Chamber of Deputies and the President is therefore based primarily on the principle of mutual cooperation and the system of control mechanisms. Both institutions have their constitutional rights and powers and participate in each other's governance. I am therefore very pleased that you have visited the Chamber of Deputies today, and I also consider this to be a very important signal for the functioning of the state for the benefit of all citizens. Thank you again for your words, and now I'm saying goodbye. I'm handing the proceedings to the Vice-President and continuing our negotiations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-000-000.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, we will now continue our negotiations. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you all out and ask you to sign up with your ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who is asking for a replacement card. Vice-President Richterová votes with a replacement card 27, Mrs Oborná with a replacement card 23, Mr Havránek votes with a replacement card number 15. I declare that the following Members have asked to apologise for their failure to attend the meeting: Babišová Andrea all day - working reasons, Bašta Jaroslav all day - health reasons, Brabec Richard all day - health reasons, Burešš Jan all day - working reasons, Dražilová Lenka all day - working reasons, Dubskýý Tomáš all day - working reasons, Fialová Eva until 15.30 - health reasons, Havel Matěj Ondřej whole day - working reasons, Heller Šimon whole day - personal reasons, Jáč Ivan whole day - medical reasons, Janulík Miloslav whole day - working reasons, Juchelka Alešš whole day - family reasons, Kettner Zdeněk whole day - family reasons - family reasons, Kohoutek Tomáš whole day - foreign travel, Kovářová Věra from 17 to 19 hours - working reasons, Krutáková Jana whole day - personal reasons, Kubík Jan full meeting day - health reasons, Munzar Vojtěch full meeting day - foreign trip, Nováková Nina until 14.45 - working reasons, Potůčková Lucie from 14.45 - working reasons, Svoboda Bohuslav from 15 hours - working reasons, Smetana Karel whole meeting day - family reasons, Tureček Karel whole meeting day - medical reasons, Válková Helena whole meeting day - health reasons, Vondrák Ivo whole day - foreign trip, Zlínský Vladimír from 14 to 15.30 - working reasons, Ženíšek Marek from 18.30 - working reasons. From the members of the government apologize: Bartoš Ivan all day - foreign trip, Baxa Martin from 17.30 - working reasons, Bek Mikuláš whole meeting day - working reasons, Dvořák Martin from 15 hours - working reasons, Hladík Petr from 15 hours - working reasons, Kupka Martin until 17 hours - working reasons, Langšádlová Helena from 17.45 - working reasons, Lipavskýý Jan whole meeting day - foreign trip, Síkela Jozef whole meeting day - foreign trip, Válek Vlastimil whole meeting day due to foreign travel. I would now like to inform you about the proposals on which today's grémium has been agreed. We propose to include new points in the 65th meeting, namely the Proposal for changes in the composition of the bodies of the Chamber of Deputies, House document 2717, Determination of the remuneration of members of the Board of Auditors of the Czech Technical Agency for the year 2022 and House printing 442, amendment of the Act on Health Services, first reading. These three new points are proposed to be firmly included on Thursday, 15 June following the discussion of paragraph 136, which are the answers of the members of the government to written interpelations, no later than 11 o'clock. Furthermore, we propose to include point 127 of the approved programme, the Parliament's Press 411, a summary report on the Ombudsman's activities for 2022, as the fourth item on Thursday, 15 June. That's all on my side. An overview of the remaining points has been sent to you by e-mail. I now have several applications with priority rights to change the approved 65th session. Mr Marek Výborný will be the first to speak, and then President Alena Schillerová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor. Calm down, please! Colleagues, colleagues, I'd like you to keep your voice down. If you have any important conversations, please move them into the lobby. Madam President is withdrawing his application. I now ask the President of the Excellent to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-000-000.u5	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Government, colleagues, following negotiations with the Presidents of all the Members' Clubs of this Chamber of Deputies, and on the basis of the discussion of the Gremium, I would like to make a proposal for an amendment to the agenda. These are those parts where there has been no consensus within the framework of the Gremia and which are asked to be voted separately. The proposal concerns the agenda of the items under discussion today, or in the following days, when the 65th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies will continue. The proposal is as follows, in this order: as the first point today, after the President's speech, I propose that we discuss the law from the second reading block, namely the Government's bill amending Act No. 262/2006 Coll., Labour Code, House Press 423. I ask, Madam Vice-President, first of all, that this item be put to the agenda and then, if the House so decides, that this item be placed first today, that is, the second, after the President of the Republic, at today's meeting. Furthermore, as the second point after this first point, if loaded, I propose that we discuss paragraph 12 in the agenda of this meeting, House Press 378, the Government's proposal to amend the Constitution of the Czech Republic. I also propose that, as the third point, the fourth point of today's negotiations be discussed in the first reading of the item in the contract block. Once again, I ask that a vote be put first on this item on the agenda if the House has acted that this item is included, so I ask that it be placed in that order, i.e. as a fourth item. It is a government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is presented to express its agreement to ratify the Agreement between the Czech Republic and the Organization for Cooperation in the area of arms exchange and mutual protection of classified information, House press 441. Next, with the vote first on the inclusion on the agenda of the meeting and then on the inclusion on the programme as loaded on me, the House's press 443, the Government's bill amending Act No. 582/1991 Coll., on the organisation and implementation of social security, as amended by other later regulations and other laws, Parliament's press once more 443. So once again, I ask that it be decided first to include on the programme and then on the programme, i.e. after that one item from the block of the Treaty - first reading. Subsequently, please place the House's decision points from the News block. Here I would like to propose that these points, which I will now load, be voted by one vote, unless the proposal here is the opposite, so that we speed up the vote, and those points would be in the following order: paragraph 119, House press 126, Annual Report on the Management of Czech Television for 2020; also point 121, Annual Report on the Management of Czech Radio for 2021, House press 269; then point 122, Annual Report on the Management of Czech Television in 2021, House press 277; then point 123, Annual Report on the Activities and Management of the Czech Press Office in 2021, House press 279; then point 124, Report on petitions adopted by the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Parliament over the period from 1. 1. 2022 to 30. 6. 2022, House printing 293; then paragraph 125, Report on the long-term sustainability of public finances of September 2022, House printing 308; then paragraph 126, Report on petitions adopted by the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Parliament for the second half of 2022, House printing 375; then paragraph 130, Annual Report on the results of the Czech National Bank's management for 2022, House printing 414; and paragraph 131, Annual Report on the activities of the Supreme Audit Office for 2022, House printing 421. I ask that these points be numbered as they were read by me, from the amendment to the Labour Code to this point 131. This order, please, applies both for today's meeting and for the days to come, really for Thursday, June 15, when the order after the written interviews has already been read here, there are four points, i.e. where we would not discuss those points today, so we would, apparently, continue on Thursday after the four firmly from the Grémia of the reading points, if this is the way the House will of course be approved. Thank you for your attention and support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-000-000.u6	Yes, thank you. I'm just gonna ask Prime Minister Excellent to... Excuse me, one moment. [[Mr Okamura is speaking to the President.]] I'd just like to ask Prime Minister Excellent to clarify all those points as it was. Madam President has... Okay, well, then we'll continue to proceed... Wait a minute. Please, you may have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-000-000.u7	Thank you, it will be very short, Madam Vice-President. I am going on behalf of two clubs in the Chamber of Deputies - the club of the movement YES and the club of the SPD - to put the veto on the classification of the House press 423, the government bill amending Act 262/2006 Coll., the Labour Code, as amended, and some other laws. The main reason is that, after today's debate at the club, I say that the Health Committee has asked the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to draw up solutions - and the Ministry of Health - a fatal impact on health in introducing this proposed amendment. This concerns labour agreements and performance agreements. [[Work?]] It has not been explained, no solution has been presented, so we think it still takes some time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-000-000.u8	Yes, I have noted your veto on behalf of two MPs, which is the Parliament's 423 press, which is the Labour Code. And now I have another enlisted to change the agenda of the meeting, and that is President Okamura. Mr. Chairman, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-000-000.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the SPD, I would like to propose two special points on today's agenda for the Chamber of Deputies. Firstly, I would like to propose a point called the Purple Government wants to turn the Czech Republic into an immigrant country and agree to a commitment to compulsory solidarity with countries with high numbers of illegal immigrants. I know it's supposed to be an emergency meeting, but I think it can't be delayed, because I have to say that the European Union, as we know, is now ordering us, with the support and full approval of the Fialův Government, to receive redistributed immigrants...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-000-000.u10	I am very sorry to interrupt you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, please move your conversations, somewhat loud, into the lobby. Thank you. We'll wait a little while longer before the right side calms down. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-000-000.u11	Well, there's supposed to be an opposition emergency meeting here, but it just can't take the delay from our point of view, because the Fialův government has agreed with the European Union here - about us, without us - that the European Union will be ordering us to receive redistributed immigrants from African and Muslim countries here, or to pay half a million crowns for every non-accepted migrant, that is simply an unacceptable matter for us. Minister of the Interior Vít Rakušan of the STAN movement also voted on behalf of the Fialův Government... [[There's still noise in the room.]] Can I just ask for some peace of mind, Madam Vice-President?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-000-000.u12	Yes, of course. Colleagues, co-workers, I don't want to name them, and I'm gonna ask you to keep your voice down. Ambassador, please. I also ask the others to keep it down so that the President can continue. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-000-000.u13	Thank you. I have quite a sound voice, but there has been a lot of disinterest in the members of the government coalition on this subject that I am talking about. So the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan of the STAN movement, on behalf of the Fialův Government, voted at the meeting of the Interior Ministers of the Member States of the European Union last week on 8 June for the EU's immigration distribution system. The proposal was supported by the Fialův Government, unlike the Polish and Hungarian Minister, and the Fialův Government has thus betrayed all our allies from the so-called Visegrad Four. Four other countries - Slovakia, Bulgaria, Lithuania and Malta - abstained in the vote. Minister of the Interior and Chairman of the STAN Vít Rakušan movement did so without any prior discussion of this matter in the House or with the opposition and with his vote fundamentally damaged the national interests of the Czech Republic. It can be called without exaggeration and national treason, and the Fialův Government can be called a collaborating government. In principle, it is compulsory to redistribute illegal immigrants between Member States of the European Union, mainly Muslims who seek asylum in a particular Member State, and if another Member State refuses to accept them, it will pay half a million CZK, 22 000 euros, for each immigrant, under the so-called compulsory solidarity. We are of the opinion, we in the SPD, that solidarity cannot be mandatory, but only and exclusively voluntary. Otherwise, it is a forced dictation and a loss of sovereignty. The mandatory reception of illegal immigrants will irreversibly damage our country's security, civilization, economic and otherwise. The SPD movement therefore supports the convening of an opposition emergency meeting of the House, which will be on this issue tomorrow. At the same time, we are also proposing this as an extraordinary point today, because the subject is really extremely serious. At the same time, we call for the restoration of the protection of our national borders and for the long term, we propose the adoption of a referendum law, including a referendum on the withdrawal from the EU, which, however, both the five-calice government and the ANO movement have long refused to vote here. And now it is necessary to add what the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan of the STAN movement is saying - because the Czech Republic, or the Purple Government, has already accepted 300,000 migrants from Ukraine, so he says we will not have to pay or receive any more. First of all, the Polák accepted more refugees from Ukraine, and yet they voted against it, so the arguments of Vít Rakušan are completely ridiculous. Does this place make us stupid, from all over the Czech Republic? So he's out of his mind next to the fir. The second thing is that he actually admitted exactly what I'm saying here that the Fialův government wants to turn us into immigrants. That means because they've already taken 300,000, so we won't have to take or pay anyone for a while. It's basically what we're saying here. That means it's really a betrayal, and it's just absolutely incredible what the Fialův government here is voting on without us. Here I would also like to point out that Slovakia, Bulgaria, Lithuania, Malta have abstained. This is where I want to talk about Malta. Malta, which itself has problems with the migration wave, logically, did not support it itself, so it is necessary to look at it again from this point of view. This is where we see the treasonous vote of the Fialův Harmful Government, which is literally destroying the Czech Republic and, in fact, our entire country, both economically and socially as well as securely. This is just a problem, and we're saying again that we want to put it as the first special point on the SPD today. Of course, we fully support the announcement of a vote on mistrust by the government. In this sense, we also want to address the YES movement in order to declare distrust together, because I think the opposition is supposed to work together in this and pull together, because, of course, these proposals are completely unacceptable. So this is point one for us. Another point is point number 2, which I would like to propose as an extraordinary point at the House of Deputies meeting - that is also very topical - and it is a point called We call on the Purple Government to oppose the approval of the Istanbul Convention, which introduces gender totalitarianism and is a fundamental attack on society and family. Now I would like to justify this proposal. The government of Petr Fiala of the ODS should decide on this Wednesday and under pressure from the European Parliament whether it will send the so-called Istanbul Convention to ratify Parliament. The SPD movement fundamentally rejects the ratification of this dangerous and harmful international treaty, and you see that the ODS is the one who is positive about it. So the ODS here promotes gender totalitarianism and this neomarxist nonsense. It's ODS. We for the SPD say that we fundamentally reject the ratification of this dangerous and harmful international treaty. This document is also redundant because the Czech rule of law allows sufficient protection for women as well as prosecution and punishment of all the violent acts mentioned in the Convention. Of course, there is nothing to prevent this if we want to tighten up the penalties so that we can adopt a legislative amendment here at national level and, if necessary, tighten up the legislation. Moreover, the Convention requires signatory States to engage in an educational system in the spirit of a malignant ideology of genderism and positive discrimination. [[Strong noise in the hall.]] Can I have some more peace, please? I'm begging you one more time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-000-000.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you once more to calm down. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-000-000.u15	Thank you. Moreover, the Convention requires signatory States to intervene in the education system in the spirit of the malignant ideology of genderism and positive discrimination, as well as to organise and finance training and awareness campaigns to support it, which political non-profit organisations would conduct for public money, and to establish other state authorities and institutions. It is therefore also an attack on Christian social values and a traditional family. This would be a far-reaching and binding super-state legal regulation bringing the risk of financial and other sanctions to the Czech Republic by international courts, which, moreover, grants extensive powers to the supranational supervisory authorities, the so-called GREVIO Group, whose representatives would not be subject to Czech jurisdiction. The Istanbul Convention would also mean a breakthrough in the Czech legal system, for example, in the form of pressure to weaken the tools of evidence and to limit legal confidentiality. This is why the Czech Bar Association rejects it. Here I would just say that the first person to withdraw from the so-called Istanbul Convention is Turkey. The SPD is calling on the Government of the Czech Republic to stop the ratification process of the Istanbul Convention and to withdraw the signature of the Czech Republic on this document. For us, I say, of course, if the Fialův government sends it here, we will do everything we can to keep the Istanbul Convention from going through. On the other hand, there are members of the government coalition, such as the ODS, who are promoting it, so this is obviously wrong. We do not agree with this and we are not ashamed that we are the only conservative party in the Czech Parliament, because we think that these neo-Marxist ideas are wrong, and we do not need anyone from abroad to dictate it to us on the basis of a multinational treaty. I hope we can adequately treat the rights of our citizens within the Czech Republic without anyone dictating it from abroad. So I'm gonna read it one more time. Item number 2 of today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies I would like to propose as an extraordinary point a point called We call on the Fiala Government to oppose the approval of the Istanbul Convention, which introduces gender totalitarianism and is a fundamental attack on society and family. I would add that, of course, we are all opposed to the abuse of women, that is clear, but again, there is no need for laws to dictate here from abroad. We are sufficiently treated in the Czech legal order. If anyone is unhappy, I will be the first to vote in favour of protecting the rights not only of women but also of men, children and others. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-000-000.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would only ask you, given the length of the name of that point, if we could clarify the full name. Thank you. The President of Babiš is now registered with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-000-000.u17	[[On arriving at the rhetorical site at Minister Cernochova off the microphone: Are you here alone? Don't worry, I'll be good.]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to be able to perform here. So far, I have the right, even though I've heard something's going on in the galleys. And I'm glad the President said he lacked more tolerance between government and opposition. Well, we'll see what's going on with the tolerance this week, or if it's the one hundred and eight cylinder. And then the President said that we should think about those who think they don't have a defense in Parliament. Well, Mr. President, we think of them. The YES movement is here for the millions of voters who voted for someone in the elections and don't have that representation. I'd like to go back to last week when I was talking for three and a half hours. I think I have said quite a bit of the point because I like numbers and names and deadlines and I love - and the President said that we should listen - that the Prime Minister probably listened to me, because the Prime Minister after I showed the clear graph, where the debt in 2013 to GDP was 2.5 percentage points higher than the debt in 2021, in response to my speech he did not repeat the lie that the Czech Republic had any financial problems. She's had a problem since this government started, because she can't even draw up a budget, and she doesn't even understand that there's any revenue here. But I guess the Prime Minister didn't just listen to the fact that he didn't talk about bankruptcy anymore, but here I saw the headline, because I made it clear here that I gave a guide on how to deal with the budget. And here's the headline of the pro-government journal N: "Premier Bek and Síkela were literally yelling. The violet was upset by the unprepared drawdown of Brussels billions." Well, I'm glad the Prime Minister listened to me, yes, they have 200 billion in 2014 to 2020. That's what Mr Nečas agreed, 640 billion, we negotiated 980, and they're drawing a ridiculous 50 out of it. So the Prime Minister heard it, too. Wonderful news! And then the Prime Minister stopped talking about inflation, that's another hundred times repeated lie, because it says that we gave people money and together we cut taxes on a super gross wage. Paradoxically, however, the ANO movement has always reduced taxes, 504 billion since 2014, while, at the same time, our government's savings have increased by 900 billion, it is, of course, nonsense, and we have pushed inflation to 5.4 percent in December 2021, when it was negative for November and December, negative inflation. Well, the Prime Minister drove it out at 19, so all the experts, the theorists, because on TVs today you see only theorists who have no concrete real-life experience, perhaps they have already understood that inflation, first, was created by external things, and secondly, the government has simply caused electricity prices from producers to fail. On 18 February 2022, I invited Minister Síkela to follow Slovakia, where the Minister of Industry Sulík agreed with electricity producers. The Slovák have the advantage that they have about 62 percent of the core, unlike us, what we only have 34 and that they will put a price on electricity of CZK 1,500 per megawatt. The government and all the five-calice politicians were joking and that it was nonsense, and then Sulík left, and imagine that it was true. Well, I'll read you one last piece of information. What's the date today? The 13th. Bratislava, Czech News Agency on 12 June, says: "The Slovak Government today approved a contract with the largest electricity producer in the country, the Slovak Power Plant, and its private shareholders for the supply of electricity to households in the country at lower than the current market price. Slovak power plants are to sell part of their production for approximately 61.2 euros" - that is 1,450 crowns, weighing. Dear fellow citizens, try to calculate how much money you'd save if you only paid 1,450. I have always claimed 1,500, 1 500 to buy back 100 percent from the producers, at ČEZ. That was the drug, that was the instructions to stop inflation - the way the Španěl did, like Macron did with EDF, that was it. Well, Slovák, fellow citizens, Slovák, where we still export electricity - last year ČEZ and others exported 300 percent more electricity to Austria, Germany, Poland, Slovakia - we have the most expensive electricity and they, Slovák, citizens, have 1 450 crowns per megawatt! Yes, the contract will be considered by the European Commission, because, of course, the European Commission decides everything. Yesterday, Mrs. Jourová told us she'd ban us from Twitter! What am I gonna do if I have 520,000 followers in there, right? [[With laughter.]] How will I communicate? What kind of nonsense is this? I'll go back to electricity. So the price of Slovak electricity with delivery for the following year today, according to the website of the Central European Energy Exchange, was EUR 141.3, CZK 3,360 per megawatt. The government and Prime Minister boasted terribly about the price of electricity, and where did they put it? On 5,000 crowns. How much are they paying these days? Last year it was a total hell, some paid 11,000, and today, as I asked, the new contracts are around 4,500. So the Slovák will pay three times less. Prime Minister, please, I know your government is mainly discussing and doing nothing, but try an action! I recommended it to you in February 2022. The Slovák have 1,500 crowns for two years and ours have what they have. Everyone's gonna do the math. So we overturned bankruptcy - a beautiful table, a hundred times repeated lie. Inflation, that's the solution - energy, yes, inflation does, now everyone's actually debating, the inflation, as it will be. This was a fatal mistake made by the government that it didn't stop at 1,500 crowns and buy out CEZ, because if someone has 70 percent and those 30 percent of the minoritars get a good offer, then it's a question of negotiation. So it turned out that when the government didn't do it, the biggest pest, former CNB Governor Mr Rusnok, increased the basic rate to 7 percent and the consequences are clear. Young families can forget about their own housing, and companies that don't have euro loans and stuff, but you know all that. So there's no bankruptcy, I'm glad the Prime Minister hasn't repeated it. The electricity is clear. Try to learn something from your neighbors. I know you hate the V four because of Babiš. I'm always fascinated to hear Viktor Orbán's blaming me at that meeting, saying, "You're Babiš's buddy!" Orbán said, "Yeah, I'll always be friends with him, even if he's not in politics, even if I'm not in politics. Well, the V four can't work. The Vé four, folks, June 29, 2018 after an all-nighter meeting at four o'clock in the morning, stopped the quotas. Yes, it's in my book, but I'm not talking about migration right now. And by the way, Vé four voted? Well, somebody's been talking about it. [[14.50 hours]] So that's it: inflation, electricity. And now that a thousand times repeated lie, and that's Green Deal. And that's why I'm suggesting that the meeting point is Green Deal. The Prime Minister commented on my speech, it's actually clear how he commented. When we made it clear how to deal with it, he started the Green Deal. Prime Minister Fiala's speech was confusing in many ways because Green Deal is very complex. And perhaps mostly about what he said about the European Union and the negotiations on the Green Deal from 2019 to 2021. The Prime Minister is twisting reality, and I'm going to try to explain to you why and how it really was. I think Prime Minister Fiala presented everything in a very inaccurate and misleading way - not because he didn't know how it was right or didn't understand things. This is not quite believable with regard to his original occupation and education. Unfortunately, I think that Prime Minister Fiala is making Czech citizens, citizens of the Czech Republic fools on purpose, because he has a huge problem finding a compromise on his position on the Green Deal not only within the existing coalition, but also within the ODS. So he tried to take advantage of the proven trick on which this government actually stands and what it wakes up and falls asleep with, and that we hate Babiš and he blames everything bad for what's happening to us. Unfortunately, it turns out that although it was enough to form a government - yes, they won with anti-babishism - and to find a majority in Parliament in 2021, it is not enough to manage our country successfully and effectively in the long term. It was also unfortunate that Prime Minister Fiala mixed Green Deal with ETS allowances. While these are closely related and part of the Fit for 55 legislation also concerns the amendment of the ETS system, but the ETS debate is much wider, has its own development and would have led, even if Green Deal did not exist at all. As far as Green Deal is concerned, negotiations on the general objective of achieving carbon neutrality in the European Union need to be strictly separated - that is being dealt with at the European Council, but there is no specific legislation in favour of it, so it is a lie that I would sign something. Nothing was approved, nothing was signed by the European Council. Do you know how it works in there? President Charles Michel reads something, some text, and then the Prime Minister, if he doesn't agree, will sign up. And it has to be there and it has to be fast, that's how it works. So the nonsense that I signed something is, of course, a lie. There has been no specific legislation and the various legislative proposals that achieve this objective. In other words, the presidents and prime ministers at the European Council will give the task of the European Commission - yes, we would like that, on the contrary sometimes, unfortunately - to present legislation which obliges the Member States to do what the European Council has agreed. The Member States' ministers will then discuss the Commission's proposal and what they will approve must be incorporated into national legislation. It is a fundamental principle that you all know, but after hearing the Prime Minister's speech, it seems important to me to repeat it. The deadline for the European Union to achieve carbon neutrality has been repeatedly addressed at the European Council, namely in December 2019, December 2020 and December 2021. I can't forgive myself for commenting here. I became Prime Minister on December 6, 2017. I asked President Zeman to appoint a government on December 13, 2017, so that first thing in the morning, December 14, 2017, was Friday, flew to Brussels. There I was looking forward to - Macron on the left, Magdalena was fighting for the Sharia center in Sweden, for the migrants, today someone is afraid to enter - and there is fighting for Czech interests. The Prime Minister left it to me, it was a difficult European Council on 16 December 2021. Yes, I fought for Czech interests that week, Monday in Budapest and two days in Brussels. For the first time at the European Council, the Prime Minister was probably in no hurry, not until February. So December 2021. All these negotiations were long and demanding, we certainly did not go to bed before midnight, mainly because we protested the Czech Republic and several other states and wanted the goals to be more realistic. Finally, we have at least pushed for the objective to be for the whole of the EU and not for the individual states. Yes, they came and said: All states cut emissions by 55 percent. And we said, "You're crazy." We had how much? 40. Denmark, where Mette's propeller is filming, Prime Minister, is 70. We all have different natural conditions. So, yes, that was the basis, and we fought for that, for a number of specific references to what is important to us to the Council's conclusion. The core, please, didn't want the word core in there. The former Prime Minister of Austria, sitting next to me, crying because I was blocking all night, insisted on the word core. Yes, can you imagine? No, you can't. It's normal for a normal person, but for a Španěl, the word core was hell, he didn't want it there. Yes, it seems abnormal, but that's how it is. Funds for countries for which achieving carbon neutrality is more expensive and more. All of this can be verified from the press releases and the conclusions of the European Council. The state that would disagree and completely block the negotiations, as the ODS continues to repeat pointlessly, would not have touched on the money from the Just Transition Fund, it was a political declaration - and the Just Transition is 40 billion, weighing, one of the largest shares - and probably not even on the Recovery and Resilience Facility. For the Czech Republic 170 billion only on grants. So to say that we're the only ones in Europe... Of course, we basically say let's cut emissions - I'll read you my speech today at the UN General Assembly in 2019 - but not at the cost of saving the entire planet and everyone else doing what they want. We only have 9 percent of global emissions, we have Europe. So somebody's blocking it? No way. No way! And in principle, we want to reduce, but not at the cost of destroying Europe, as it has evolved, that crazy Green Deal. By the way, the Polák, who were the last to try it - I fought back then, fought back, and even Morawiecki tried it, because he tried it mainly for political reasons, was before the presidential elections in Poland, and simply gave it up because he wouldn't get money for the budget, yes, weighing. And if anyone's talking about subsidies, then cancel them, we'll be in a different position. All of them. So, of course, the Commission, what does it do? The Commission is doing this by assigning you the money that she wants, and then doing everything she can to take them away from us, or blackmailing some states. Babišův's conflict of interest will be the main topic of this week, I'm sure, on Friday. So even the Polák didn't stand a chance, and they agreed to draw the money, and that's what they're doing, by the way. The Prime Minister may have found out about it now, so maybe our parents will start doing something to pump. By the way, we are in the drawing of one of the worst in Europe today, unless you know it, of course, Bakalův's journalists, who know everything best at the European Council, will not tell you that we are pumping badly. And European money is budget revenue, once again, and Polák are building, building infrastructure and so on. So we didn't approve of any Green Deal, we didn't sign. We have won that the Czech Republic has no specific commitment in percentage, and we have won huge money from the Modernisation Fund, where the Minister of the Environment says he would like to draw on the 50 billion, but he does not know how. And Stanjura says he has it, and he says he doesn't. Well, no comment. [[15.00 hours]] So even if the objectives at the European Council did not pass... Frans Timmermans, that's the lunatic who came up with quotas, that's the man who's ruining Europe. They're destroying Europe! So the Timmermans, which, by the way, The four of them out of being President of the European Commission - that would be hell - would still put forward their proposals. He would have presented them anyway, because Mr Timmermans is the Commissioner who doesn't give a damn about what the European Council will say, and these are the presidents and prime ministers. But on the other hand, there are better commissioners like Thierry Breton, who clearly says: When the internal combustion engines are over, 600,000 will be unemployed in the car industry in Europe. These proposals are voted in a qualified majority at the Council of the European Union for Climate or Energy, so we would have achieved nothing anyway, just getting substantially less money out of the budget. This would be devastating in the current situation where, in terms of economic indicators, except, perhaps, unemployment rates, compared to other Member States, we would be worse in virtually everything. And I still firmly believe and hope that this government has this potential for the European Union budget and the money that we have negotiated - yes, 980 billion, four nights, five days we haven't slept, four nights, five days - and here is the huge advantage of the unanimity of the European Council, because when you have the courage, everyone is angry with you and everyone is not sleeping four nights and five days and you are one of the last to block it, then you bring in 42 billion extra. So everyone who hates me - I've paid you a hundred times. My entire team we were there, we won the second largest money, 1.6 billion extra euros. You have 980 billion there, and how much do you draw? 50, ridiculous 50! And Mr. Bartoš, who I don't know what he's doing there - dealing with that line in Japan instead of dealing with the excess demand for IROP elementary schools, isn't enough places in primary schools, instead of Bartoš running to the Prime Minister and running to Stanjura - that's how it worked for us. Dostálová called React-EU, hospital - gave 11, overhang was eventually huge: 22. And we found the money, 22 billion React-EU to hospitals. So that's what this is about. Well, perhaps the Prime Minister, someone will tell him that it would be good for Bartoš, because he is completely incapable of drawing European money, if, of course, this government wants to help the municipalities and give money to the mayors. I read here last time: 145 comments, that's hell. We did it online, right away. Well, I hope Mr. Bartoš will deal with this as soon as he gets back from Japan. It's Japan that seems attractive. There was also the entire administration of the Magistrate, wasn't there? That's where they had the trip. Now everyone goes to Japan. What they're dealing with, I don't know - the line, of course. It's always someone who puts it as a theme. So back to the Green Deal. The legislative proposals put forward by Green Deal, i.e. achieving the goal of carbon neutrality in life, were the so-called Fit for 55 package, which was largely adopted under the Czech Presidency, Prime Minister. So stop lying about Babiš making plans. No, Babiš has arranged that you do not have a commitment of 50 percent, that you have 600 billion, and everything else goes to you, under your Presidency, under the leadership of Prime Minister Fiala's government. So I do not understand why Prime Minister Fiala says that achieving carbon neutrality was already transferred to the EU legal framework in June 2021. It's not true, Prime Minister. You're lying, Prime Minister. It's not true. And officials at the Office of the Government, unless you fired everyone - those who understood the European agenda - ask the Zajíček. Here was Mr. President, who married the best person the Czech Republic has - Zajíček, who could be Minister of Foreign Affairs and Quality, tomorrow - is his advisor. Yes, he was there. As a result, you have achieved and sold something within the Presidency - such as Schengen. Croatia waited eight years. And now Mr. Rakušan is showing it like it's... So ask the Zajíček, he'll tell you. I'm sure he's a serious man, that he'll confirm it. Yes, so it's not true, there was no such thing for us. The legislative proposals were submitted by the European Commission in July 2021, and I would point out that we had seen them for the first time not long before, because they had no agreement on them for a long time, even in the Commission. It is true that our government prepared for them the framework positions approved in October and November 2021, and, as usual, after discussions in the committees of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate - the Senate gave some proposals a yellow card, but it was not very valid. It is absolutely not true that these positions were largely supportive, it is not true. If anyone wants to contradict this, you can read parts of it, but the proposals are fourteen. Everyone has several parties and all Members had them at their disposal at the time of approval. The framework position is a detailed guide for negotiators in the Council to proceed in order to comply with the interests of the Czech Republic, it is not just a yes or a no. It comments on the details of the proposal, sometimes contains alternatives for negotiation, takes into account the positions of other Member States and other players. Prime Minister Fiala, like all of you, is well aware that almost every framework position begins with general praise, but at least in a legislative proposal not to force a negotiator to negotiate in a purely negative way. Yes, that's the Brussels know-how. And I look forward to the mandate Mr. Rakušan had when he negotiated the migration madness. So he negotiates in a group of 27 states with different starting positions and often their attitudes lead nowhere. However, in the parts that Prime Minister Fiala no longer quotes, he clearly sets limits for negotiations. Yes, of course the Prime Minister is manipulating it. What we do not agree with, what needs to be opposed to and in which direction we need to change the proposal in the negotiations were the positions for all the proposals from the Fit for 55 package. By the way, if the Prime Minister was so unhappy with them, as he says, I do not understand why he did not impose them on his team to be completely renegade, and he worked with the originals in the real discussion of the proposal that took place in 2022 - yes, 2022. So once again, there was nothing specific in the Green Deal for us, nothing. On the contrary, we have won the great position: there is no commitment and a bundle of money that you do not draw. At the time of the Czech Presidency in the Council, the Czech Government was very helpful in relation to Green Deal's proposals for life, working fiercely on compromises and allowing as many of them as possible to be approved. Yes, unfortunately, the greenest Presidency in history. When that lunatic Timmermans complimented you - I'd shoot myself if Timmermans ever praised me, because he's really human, I say a lunatic who wants to destroy Europe. The Commission, with obvious surprise, praised the procedure very much after the end of the Czech Presidency. Timmermans complimented you, Ursula praised you, how did you... Yes, Ursula kissed the ring when she became President of the European Commission, a green, crazy European Parliament, or she wouldn't have been president, would she? Ursula took the liberty of saying in March this year that the core is actually not a clean emission source. And nobody in V-4 explained it to her or responded, okay? [[15.10 hours]] The Commission was surprised, our Presidency was helpful, they did nothing for us, so I do not understand why the Prime Minister, when he criticizes me for his approval, which is completely nonsense, does not understand why he did not use the Presidency in the Council and behaved more discreetly and at least delayed those proposals, which is common practice, or if the Member State does not particularly wish to adopt certain standards. Yes, when they weren't vaccines and Angela didn't want to give us vaccines and we fought Kurz, the Portuguese Prime Minister shut us down, that was solidarity. Yes, that is a great position to have a Presidency. You're the head of Europe. All you have to do is understand, and you have to have the power to do it. The Czech Government's approach to Euro 7 was completely pointless, where first the Czech government, under the Presidency, the Petr Fiala government, helped negotiate a compromise, and after its end it began to define itself against it and to connect completely inappropriately with other topics. I don't get it, I don't get it. Even journalists who are normally rooting for this government have noticed, Mrs. Šafaříková and Houska, are from Bakala. They know everything, they're the greatest experts in everything, they're still digging into Babiš, and they haven't even left Babiš out with poor Berlusconi, who I've never even met in my life, and this nonsense. So imagine these Bakala two criticized the Fialův government. This is unbelievable! What's it got to be? And these guys they quoted, they wrote in Economie, Newsletter 16. 3. 2023: "The Transport Minister Martin Kupka first spoke out against the Euro 7 emission standard and at the same time for the car manufacturers to continue to sell cars with an internal combustion engine after 2035 if they are for synthetic fuels." [[ODS]] Do you understand that? You know that synthetic fuels don't exist, that there are only three laboratories in the world somewhere in Chile or I don't know where to use synthetic fuels. If we had synthetic fuel, it costs, like, two or three hundred. Normal fake! Normal fraud and, of course, the failure of this government. On 19 December 2021, Mr. Prime Minister, two days after becoming Prime Minister, I handed him our country's bows - prosperous, with low debt, with a high standard of living - promised not to allow it. I don't know. Hubáčková didn't speak English, I'm sorry, but she had the mandate, okay? So after Mr Kupka's meeting, he's called something to Strasbourg and he's talking about Eura 7 and he's not talking about synthetic fuels. Reason? In short, Minister Kupka played it wrong. The fact that he connected both matters made it possible that only eight countries came to meet him instead of twelve invited. The Francouz, the Fin, or the Španěl refused to come. So this is what anti-Babiš journalists have written here, and I quote: "Diplomats have been very busy in the coming months to fix the whole thing so that the government can be praised again. " The government gets it all worked out, and when it does, it always gets praised, doesn't it? The oil is going to drop, so we're going to tax and so on. So as far as ETS is concerned, these are emission allowances, this is madness normally, which has a fundamental effect on the price of electricity for coal producers. That's what I fought against. I wrote to all the Prime Ministers, I wrote to the President of the European Council, I wrote to the President of the European Commission in September 2021. I've got about six member countries on my side to get rid of it, the MIFID. How can the price of the allowance be the subject of stock exchange speculation, and if you saw that study with a prognosis that certainly cost a million euros or how much, they missed at all, right? And I'm sure you remember the debate before the election when the Prime Minister criticized me. So of course ETS should cancel because it has a negative effect, but of course there are interests of those who have a good energy mix, yes, because if they don't have emissions, they don't have to pay, they have revenue. Yes, it is true that ETS money also enters the budget, but, of course, within the Modernisation Fund, the government should use it and distribute it. So the ETS price has risen disproportionately throughout 2021, and I have repeatedly performed at the European Council, and I have dealt with Ursula von der Leyen to address this in order to avoid speculation on financial markets and to use the reserve available to the Commission. No, they were still taking those allowances out of the market to keep our companies... And remember one thing. The most industrialised country in Europe is Poland, we are the second most industrial in terms of the structure of industry itself and also of course based on brown coal. By the way, I forgot that I don't know if the Prime Minister was watching Mr. Morawiecký performance, as I would say politely - in short, all the agreements that were, Turów - and I greet everyone in Liberec - are gone. Normally, that Morawiecki cheated on him and said that Turów would move on. I understand they have an election, so how did he set it up? Yes, they didn't like me because I fought for Czech interests and for the interests of citizens in the Liberec Region, who are losing water and simply have a negative impact on the environment. So I took a turn off the emission allowances. I have dealt with this intensively at the European Council in October 2021 and on 16 December 2021. The day before we rolled up the red carpet and waited with the flowers for the minister - 12.30 on Strakovka - and the day before that I had to deal with it, until the last moment. Even the Health Risk Board was at 8:00 a.m. I'm not gonna tell you again that this government didn't have any covid, but it doesn't matter. That's really funny. So, on December 16, 2021, where the Prime Minister didn't want to be there, because it's just not easy there, and he wasn't really into it. Maybe he didn't want to spoil his next relationship with his counterparts. There I first saw, by the way, German Chancellor Scholz, who joined Austria and says that actually Čech are not entitled to the core. Unbelievable. I explained it to him, too. So it is really incredible that the Prime Minister and some MEPs, especially Mr Vondra, talked about it, and now he's given this conversation to Echo about how Timmermans cheated on them. He just cheated on them and wonders. So it would be good, Prime Minister, if you'd stop with the Green Deal untruths, really. I didn't agree to any. It was a political declaration, it was beneficial for the Czech Republic. You have a lot of money there, and if the Prime Minister is commended that his team has succeeded in negotiating conditions favourable to the Czech Republic for emission allowances, they have actually pushed for what it invented, proposed and started negotiating our government. And who's the head of the heat store? Some kind of Topol. We know who he is, such coincidences. So, yes, they had the advantage. To consolidate public finances, I can only add that it is very unfortunate that the government only links this problem to whether or not pensions will be validated and does not solve any major problems at all. For example, if the government were to focus more on economic growth than on a general investigation that makes absolutely no sense, it would only lead to stagnation and subsequent growth and so on. So I'm gonna go back to Green Deal's history, because Green Deal - and after, of course, what happened to the migration treachery - I thought Green Deal was gonna be the main topic for the European elections. I'm sure it will be, but there will be migration, of course. So what about Green Deal? Everyone here keeps repeating how it's an opportunity for better tomorrows and saving the planet. Or is it madness? And there was an article today that is supposed to disappear in the Netherlands at 10,000 farms, that cattle - because some crazy people say - cows have emissions, so gradually there won't be milk, there won't be meat, we'll eat bugs, this is what's going on here. And the question, where did it come from, this green rush, and what was it? [[15.20 hours]] I will start with the informal summit in Sibiu, the future of the EU under the Romanian Presidency in the Council in May 2019. I remember that well because there was Romania, it was so informal - a summit like here at the castle, when Macron took it here - and there was this hypocrisy that we were sitting there, we went out afterwards and there were people and welcomed us. And I say, ask Angela why you are not in Schengen - Romania - why you are waiting eight, nine years. That didn't go away. And that is where it began, that is, six months before Ursula von der Leyen became President of the Commission and set out as the first of its six political priorities for the next five years that Europe was to become the first climate-neutral continent. Angela Merkelová, with light irony at the time, urged us to look at the matter more realisticly. She asked where we would get the energy we needed in industrial regions, where there is often not enough sun or wind, and certainly no longer all day and night for continuous operations. Angela joked that carbon is one of the three elements that mostly consist of the organic world, and that carbon dioxide is produced by cows when they fart. We're not gonna stop eating stew for that, either, she said. Well, she was wrong about what it looked like. That was 2019, wasn't it, she said. It was, of course, the last time I heard Angela Merkel joking like that. Three years later, when she didn't want to have too much fun, even her fellow citizens, that they are often reliant on lunches in vegetarian school or racing dining rooms. And today it's about maybe even the cows, and I firmly hope that the Dutch farmers will succeed and that they will overwhelm it, because that would really be incredible. Times simply change. Many citizens in Western Europe, but also in Baltic really want at least a slightly cleaner planet, and so do I, of course. When, in September 2017, yes, I was already kicked out of the government, promising Jurečka miliarda to fight the crust, and then he gave nothing, of course this is something that bothered us, which we dealt with, and many citizens in Western Europe, but even in the Baltics he really wants at least a little cleaner planet, no matter what it takes. We are all aware of our share of responsibility for climate change. We know that global temperature is still rising, and it is impossible to pretend that nothing is happening. We see water dwindling from the landscape in the Czech Republic, drying our forests and disappearing other animal and plant species. But the question is, are we ready over the battalion to combat climate change to radically change our way of life and economy? Carbon-free Europe in 2050 and the commitment to reduce emissions in 2030 by 55 per cent compared to 1990 soon became the mantra of the European Commission supported by a large majority of Member States. Some knew that achieving this goal would be very difficult, but, on the other hand, how else to proceed in combat would bear climate change together. In October 2019, because of the agreement on the commitment to carbon neutrality in 2050, we first stayed up overnight on the European Council, and finally it was Poland, which remained completely isolated - and after a few months agreed, that is what I was talking about. Why? Well, why did they agree? Since it was known that the Commission, however, would put forward the crazy Timmermans, put forward proposals for legislation aimed at reducing emissions, and this legislation is voted majorityly in the Council. Yes, the five-wheelers, the pirát and STAN here have a new minister, who is Eurohujer, who would hand it all over to Brussels, so then we can abolish the government and Parliament, and let Brussels dictate everything to us, because it already dictates everything to us. Even the Twitter now. Well, of course, it's a fight. And the blocking minority has been lost by countries whose economies would be too ambitious for the Commission's objectives, very soon. Any blocking minority is almost impossible without Germany or France or at least Italy or Spain. And it was also clear that those who did not join the commitment will not touch on a huge part of the European budget intended for the green trance, so the Polák soon understood that their right to veto the European Council is essentially an illusion in this case, and they began to think about how to use it. The year was 2019. We have had two similar nights in Brussels, December 2019 and May 2021, just before the completion of legislation to achieve the agreed objectives in the European Union, which is called Fit for 55, i.e. ready for a reduction of 55 percent of emissions compared to 1990. I have always been realistic, and I have pushed the confirmation of our reality to the conclusion of the European Council every time, namely that for some states the efforts they make to achieve common goals will be incomparably higher, and that account must be taken of that, as well as the need to increase the energy from the core in the energy mix, the use of gas - yes, we fought for gas - after a transitional period after the closure of coal power plants, or the fact that a large part of the Czech forests were eaten by the crust thanks to Jurečka. Finally, I have also focused on the fact that the transformation of our economy and so far mostly fossil energy will be incredibly expensive, and I have made sure that support financial instruments such as the Fair Tranzie Fund are established for this purpose, and that the Modernization Fund is strengthened, which helps poorer countries with high energy intensity. Under these not very tempting names, almost 43 billion are hidden to support the so-called coal regions of Karlovy Vary, Ústecko and Moravia Silesia and about 150 billion crowns for the whole republic, so it would be good if the regions were finally using the government to draw on it. All of this is in the conclusions of these European Councils and shows that we have not succumbed to unrealistic ambitions that we would not have been able to meet without the help of others. If some countries want carbon neutrality at all costs, they must share the cost of all, because it is a common objective and therefore the cost must be common regardless of how easy or difficult it is to become carbon neutral. It is unacceptable for the transit to be the most expensive for the poorest countries. At the same time, it has been clear for several years that clearly reject and block Green Deal simply could not. And if anyone, specifically Mr Vondra, claims that he does, he does not fully understand how the negotiations and the process of adopting the European Union, the legislation, works or makes Czech citizens fools. But Mr. Vondra himself, in the interview, says how they ran into Timmermans and how it turned out catastrophically. Our government has invested a lot in the realistic concept of Green Deal, and it is highly irritating when the current representation lies and tries to make out only its own internal political success instead of continuing to work and promote what is good for the Czech Republic. In this context, I must mention the so-called taxonomy. This is a set of rules determining when an investment can be considered environmentally sustainable. For the most part, the Commission has a list of environmentally sustainable activities in its hands. These are the conditions under which some investments are financed as green. [[Maybe.]] Under these conditions, European Union financial institutions are expected to assess individual investment activities and, as a result, to offer better financial conditions for sustainable activities. At the end of 2021, the fight culminated in the Commission finally completing delegated taxonomy acts. [[15.30 hours]] It's not true, as the Prime Minister here said, that he was responsible for taxonomy. No, we worked it out and prepared it for this government. At the end of 2021, when I personally called on Ursula von der Leyen to finally do this - it took her nine months - the fight culminated in the commission finally completing delegated acts on taxonomy. The Commission has promised to complete the delegated act, but has delayed its publication until the end of 2021. There was even speculation that the responsible Commissioners under Timmermans deliberately waited for German Chancellor Merkel to end up in office, as it was widely known that the position of the new German government would be even more renegade to the core and gas. A big debate took place at the European Council in December - I was talking about it - 2021, but Germany represented Olaf Scholz. Some states, including the Czech Republic, represented in December - and I was there - insisted - and I spoke about it - to Commission President von der Leyen to complement the delegated act, she issued without delay, respectively, with the deadline by Christmas, but Ursula was very opposed to it, probably due to the quiet resistance of Scholz. Czech Prime Minister Babiš and other allies strongly advocated the inclusion of gas and core. Finally, the European Commission issued a proposal for an additional delegated act on taxonomy until 31 December 2021 and after a heated debate in which some independent members of the college threatened to bring the matter to an end at the Court of Justice, it was not approved until 2 February 2022. This was the result of pressure during 2021 and previous years. The core was identified as a transitional low emission source, the final date for putting new installations into service in 2045. The delegated act further proposed the obligation to build nuclear waste storage by 2050 at the latest, although the current construction plans in the Czech Republic refer to 2065. Natural gas has been designated as a transitory source. It proposed the need to demonstrate the ability to burn both partially and low-carbon gaseous fuels by 2026, by 2030, and the full transition to low-carbon gases by 2025. But back to Green Deal and the key legislation to implement it. In July 2021, we first saw what Fit for 55 meant. As a result, we can better imagine what each Evropan carbon neutrality will have to sacrifice and what we have learned in our Presidency, unfortunately, negative for everyone: those who have real estate, cars, we will pay for everything. The car will basically be a luxury if it turns out that way, and if we don't change this madness in the next European election. So what happens next, what we're going to see, and I don't understand is that after Russia did that aggression on Ukraine that changed everything, and if you realize that Angela Merkel's first major negative decision was that she wanted to win the election against the Greens in Hessen, and that's when she decided to shut down three nuclear power plants. In the same week Finland recently opened a new core and Germany closed. Brown coal power plants are drowning in profit, CDU's already talking about it's bullshit, and the zelený are still saying it's fine. It's like a madhouse, and this is gonna kill us, because we're gonna rely on the sun to shine every day - ask ČEPs how many solar power plants he has now. Yeah, now it looks like it's not the supertunnel the traditional parties made here and we lost 600 billion, but the original project was really nice if Topol didn't affect it through the tunnel, okay? And no one even remembers what kind of godfathers made billions on it and everything else, and so on, because the media won't do the monitoring to you, they won't. So it's clear that Green Deal is higher energy prices, that energy was the basis of the entire inflation, and what happens to cars, and I don't understand how the Prime Minister can forget that he promised he wouldn't let that happen. I don't understand if he either agreed to do it, or he was going to execute that Hubáčková right away, he should have fired her, she was supposedly crying at the European Council. It's in their program! Why doesn't everything they've got in there come true? And I guess their constituents are fine. So this Green Deal, it's waiting for us, and I'm going to come back here about how I talked about it at the UN General Assembly in New York on September 26, 2019, and I specifically spoke here: "Ladies and gentlemen, we all realize that the effects of climate change can affect our countries more than ever in the near future. The effects will not only be ecological, but also economic, social and, ultimately, political. There's a huge task ahead of us. The Czech Republic, like all EU countries, fully supports the Paris Agreement and we fulfil our obligations. We reduce greenhouse gas emissions, we have also made a consultative meeting of the Antarctic Treaty parties in Prague and adopted the Prague Declaration. The Declaration highlights scientific cooperation in order to understand how climate change works and how we can deal with it. The Czech Republic is also fully committed to working on a long-term strategy that would lead to carbon neutrality. The European Union as a whole is ready to substantially change its economy in order to achieve carbon neutrality, but the European Union cannot solve this problem alone, without the rest of the world. Europe cannot remain abandoned as the most ambitious actor in its fight to adapt to our economies approaching climate change. There is only one planet for all of us, and its protection must be a common work for all of us. All those who contribute most to environmental pollution leading to climate change must find political courage and participate in the solution. At the same time, we cannot and will not harm the best of our economies." But we're already doing that. The European Union has forgotten that it has only 9 per cent of emissions, only 9. As they promised to negotiate with China and other countries in Asia, a duty would be imposed on goods that have huge emissions, yes, that has been mentioned a hundred times. "Europe has a population of half a billion, and it cannot in itself be a solution in a world where more than 7.5 billion people live and soon there will be many more. The EU is an example, but our responsibility must be shared by all countries, the whole world, so it must say out loud and clearly that other nations must also take the necessary political measures." And that's not happening. "Main economic models' - when, in September 2019 - which evaluates the European Commission's plan to cut emissions by 80 per cent by 2050, estimate the average annual cost of at least $1.4 trillion. The cost of significant reductions in emissions is so high because we are all fully dependent on alternatives to fossil fuels such as solar and wind energy, which are generally not efficient enough." In this respect, of course, that was Greta Thunberg - the speech, it was hell, Trump wouldn't even give her a hand, and it was that the sun and wind then provide less than 1% of the world's energy and already require subsidies of $129 billion a year. Everyone was talking about the new technology, that something was found, and nothing was ever found, just bullshit. Synthetic fuels don't exist. What's he saying, what kind of cars for synthetic fuels? After we invested so many billions in reducing consumption and emissions of cars with internal combustion engines? Poor people in Skoda Auto! There's a whole German leadership, not ours, they probably don't tell you what's gonna happen anymore. I don't know what's gonna happen so they don't take it away from us. There's a lot of robots in there, but that's a different subject, so that's what it's all about... [[15.40 hours]] What if our government didn't see today that if it wasn't for coal in Germany, they had nothing to shine on, right? And we're on a roll, too. Why do we have any plans that are tougher than the neighborhood? Morawiecki, now that he's been in the mine and told the Prime Minister he's giving a shit about a deal with Turów, says he's gonna be mining there by 2044. Today, coal is above gold, above gold, and if it doesn't know... So our government will now ban our citizens from coal and the European Commission will ban gas. Well, let's go back to the caves. Good thing it's wood. So these crazy things that are happening here are absolutely incredible, if everyone doesn't realize and, of course, if the current five-calice in the European Parliament is just going to do Czech politics, criticize Babiš and wear the pancakes for a million moments, and that corrupt Hohlmeier is going to tell us all that crap, then here we should all connect, those who somehow believe it, but it's not about the TOP 09 or the Pirát, because pirát, it's their strategy to destroy, destroy everything, and now that shows our campaign, we were right. But maybe the ODS will get by the nose. So long as I don't talk, that's news to the Prime Minister, that's today, not yesterday, 12. 6, headline: "Poland wants to reverse the European Union's decision to stop internal combustion engines'. [[He's showing the material.]] That, Prime Minister, is what you screwed up with Hubáčková. I don't understand. "Poland wants to go to court against the decision to end new cars with internal combustion engines in the European Union. Minister for Climate" - imagine Anna Moskwa's name, double w fortunately - "on Monday she announced that the government would appeal to the Supreme Court of the European Union in the next few days. Poland does not agree with this part and other areas of the European Union climate protection programme Fit for 55. He hopes" - Anna says - "I hope another country joins, said Moscow." Here it's easy in, so I don't know how it is. At the end of March, in agreement with Germany, EU ministers agreed to a large-scale decommissioning of internal combustion engines since 2035. Poland, imagine, voted against the plans. So the Prime Minister, the best friend with Morawiecki - Turów without comment, at least gave him a ride to Kiev - Poland was against it again. How much does it make? Four cars with internal combustion engines here in this region? I don't know. Slovák also have 1.5, Maďar, so I'd say it's like 5 million cars. That's where the power was. Four, that's where we were arguing. And this is what the new government broke because Bartoš and Pekarová forbade the Fial to even have fun at the V-4. So Moskwa - this is the minister - hopes to join other countries. At the end of March, in agreement with Germany, the energy ministers agreed to the large-scale decommissioning of internal combustion engines since 2035. Madness. And just because there are some green parties here, and these lunatics just want to destroy everything after billions of euro have invested in reducing consumption, reducing emissions, AdBlue and other things. So the Warsaw government called them unrealistic and feared the future rise in vehicle prices. Italy, Bulgaria and Romania abstained. Well, okay. So our government probably doesn't know that if the emissions that it has passed under the Presidency are going to cost Fabie by 200,000. And who's gonna buy it? I don't know. Not to mention, today's electric Enyaq costs $1.6 million, and the Číňan bring it in for half, $700,000. So, what do you think's gonna happen? And the Chinese is a bad emission, 100%, because China has opened up a dozen coal power plants for the time we've been talking about saving the planet. The Polish Government was encouraged by the transport spokesman ÖVP - Österreichische Volkspartei, these are the people's - in the European Parliament Barbara Thalerová. "There are many unanswered questions about the climate neutrality of e-cars to be clarified," she said on the air. The basic design, namely the loss of electric cars from the law, such as without CO2, does not benefit the climate or consumers inside, or our economy. Well, imagine, there are people in Austria who feel the same way about it. According to the decision, since 2035 new cars are not allowed to release CO2. What about the cows? What about them? They're going to release... In 2030, the levels must be 55 per cent below the levels of 2021. The German government has argued that cars with internal combustion engines can continue to be registered - aha, that's fine, so for example Serbia, which is not in the EU, will make car companies or, for God's sake, move Škoda Auto, there they will produce, we will buy it there and we can at least drive it. That's as stupid as our government banned the sale of coal boilers, but our manufacturers can produce. So our manufacturer will make a boiler, take it to Poland, our citizen will buy it in Poland, and now our businessmen are that you already have an e-shop, so you already have an e-shop to the Biedronka, which is recommended by Mr. Prime Minister's advisor, you don't have to drive, you order it and some company will deliver it to you. Losing billions probably doesn't bother the government. So I took another turn, but it doesn't matter. So, the German government, it can be registered if they're operated exclusively on fuel... oh, without CO2, so-called e-fuel, excellent. The transport sector is responsible for almost a quarter of the EU's CO2 emissions. Well, it's interesting that naval ships and planes, they're not involved. No, it's - I don't know if lobbying or someone forgot or whatever it is. And most of the car companies want to focus on electric cars in the future. Well, if you know how electric cars work, especially in the winter, we're good for it. So Green Deal. I'm glad the Prime Minister didn't talk about it anymore in response to my speech. [[He's showing the material.]] Here I have Mr Vondra's interview - "The European Commission has set us up, ordinary people will not have cars," says MEP ODS, probably the leader of the candidate for the European Parliament. Normal people can't afford cars. Well, I don't know, that's what happened. They probably don't talk there. So that's Green Deal, the other stuff, I'm glad it looks like somebody's listening to us sometimes. [[He's showing the material.]] Here's the article of Morawiecký - "Poland Mine Will Not Shut Turów" And what does Prime Minister Morawiecki say? "We're not gonna shut down the mine. No court of Brussels will tell us what energy security is." That's good, right? So, okay. So we have given so many proposals to this government. Of course, this government is very lucky because it has the opportunity to promote the things that we have organized. There is no Minister of Culture of Baxa, it is a great pity because I am glad that the Imperial Spa will open on June 16th, and if I had not visited them some time ago and was not horrified that what it is, and we did not push it together with colleague Vildumetzová and Schillerová, then the fantastic monument would not be where it is. The fact that I wasn't invited doesn't bother me, we'll take pictures there, so it costs $830 million, cost 400, so after Karlštejn, that's our work, too, and Telč and Třešť and National Museum and State Opera and Uherské Hradiště, there was Mr Stanjura and the Prime Minister, there it looks promising. I don't know what they're waiting for, why they won't do it again, I've been working on that for a year, on the project. [[15.50 hours]] And please try to keep doing what we invented, too. National Gallery, there's some unfortunate woman, some principal, well, hell. I took Macron there, showed him the French collection, and there was a fantastic project at the National Gallery. And the new scene, why don't they build it? Why isn't he building it? So we are glad that at least this government and Minister Kupka - he doesn't have to do anything anymore, we left him 300 kilometers of bypass and highways, he doesn't invite us either. When we opened that section of Karlovy Vary, we invited him, but that's okay. I think the people in our country who watch it a little bit know who did what they did here. To make a brief mention of what was... You're being punished here today, but I'm not talking about defense. [[She's turning to Secretary Black.]] Madam Secretary here, who I don't know why you won 2 per cent for next year, which is why education has -29, could have won it from the budget in 2025, will receive 48 billion defenses. [[With laughter.]] The others are unlucky. Everything is minus. [[Secretary Blackova responds.]] Excuse me? No, I support it, but I want you to spend it all. But we thought if you delivered 2 percent in defense, that education wouldn't lose 29 billion and MMR would be 14 and everyone else would be unlucky, right? Excuse me? [[President Schiller responds.]] Right and so on. Please, about the migration, today it's just a tasting, I'll be back on Wednesday, but I'm not coming on Friday. [[He's laughing.]] [[Let's hear it for members of the YES.]] You can vote Lex Babiš II on Friday, but you can kill Babiš, but you can't just get rid of him. Wish you luck. Well, 145 pages is it. [[He's showing the materials.]] That's it. Please, I have devoted myself to this, believe me very much, since January 2016 and as the only prime minister I have been in Frontex in Warsaw - except for Polish - Frontex, they have satellites. That's where I saw the boats, waiting for a boat off the coast with Tunis, smugglers, cigarettes, then she went to Spain. Those smugglers are gonna make 6 billion euros for smuggling, but unfortunately, they're gonna make people. Those people who come to Europe don't come, they don't run from the war. They simply go for a better future, because those smugglers promise them, and they pay thousands of euros for it. What we have done to prevent illegal migration. I mean, why isn't this government fulfilling its agenda again? What's in the program? Do you know what you have in the government's programming statement, Madam Secretary? I will read it to you: "We will promote access to migration without mandatory quotas and prevent illegal migration at the point of origin and in the countries where migration routes lead." That's it. What did I do? I said we have to deal with Morocco. Then they let it through Algeciras to Spain. Algeria - Angela had a contact there, the tons. Libya - I was at a conference on Libya in Palermo. And, of course, Erdogan - President Erdogan. All of these - and actually us - were supposed to discuss keeping those people home and having a good time at home so they wouldn't flee to Europe. Europe is not inflatable. Like Syria, what a beautiful country we built there. If Marshallův's plan was for Syria, all of Europe would heal there, and those people could live at home, at home and happy, as they once were. So, Frontex. I was on the border with North Macedonia, an incredible experience. Yes, we had 50 police officers there, and from Schengen, thousands of illegal smugglers from Greece went to North Macedonia, which is not in Schengen, and ours helped there. In 2015, when Angela made a fatal mistake and said: Come, wir schaffen das. Viktor Orbán took the liberty of building a fence, 170 kilometers. Thank God for that, it was full of Budapešť, or we'd have it here. Here we go! Everyone criticized him, everyone welcomed him. And how it all changed. Sebastian Kurz, who also welcomed, won another election with anti-migration rhetoric. Two weeks ago, Prime Minister Mitsotakis won the Greek election, and you know what he had on the program? That they'd build a fence 200 kilometers on the border with Turkey. Let someone tell us how much these states, Greece, Spain, Italy, have received billions of euros from the European Commission? Huge amounts. This government has something on the agenda, it's in the SPOLU's agenda, it's in the SPOLU's... what do they have here? "We must effectively defend external borders." Agreed. And we have always said that no illegal migrant organized by a smuggler can enter European soil without consent, without invitation. Ellis Island is an island in New York, where all our ancestors migrated to America, and they took them or didn't take them. Everyone went through some kind of interview, a medical exam, everything. That's what I've always talked about, Ellis Island, Libya. But then France and Italy would have to agree that whoever's in charge in Libya, that's what I was at that conference. So here I am saying to the COO in the programme: "We also insist that each EU country be free to choose its own migration policy and access to asylum seekers." And what's that? So either the Rakušan acted on his own and he should be fired by the Prime Minister, he should be fired normally, because it's not for such a thing, such an important thing, actually he approved it himself. I don't know if it was, but we'll ask Mr. Rakušan if he has the mandate. I have here the framework position of the Czech Republic from 20 October 2020. [[He's showing the material.]] "Gestor: Ministry of the Interior. Agreed by Hamáček, Minister of the Interior. Case under discussion: Proposal for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the resolution of crisis situations and force majeure in the area of migration and asylum.' This is what we approved of in the government. I, too, have been approved by the government by the mandate of what I can say to Europe and no. After we killed the quotas in 2018, the European Commission, of course, sued us. Who was she suing? Hungary, I think, Slovakia and us, yes. Then it ended and he didn't give up, that lunatic Timmermans, and he went on, and this is his project. I rejected this project in 2019 and September 2020. I made it clear at the airport that we were against it, and Mr. Rakušan agreed. Mr. Rakušan says how convenient it is. So please, I don't know what the advantage is. I would be very interested, first of all, if Mr. Rakušan had the mandate, and most importantly, what I blamed this government for is that... and I don't know, maybe Mr. Rakušan said at the press conference that he had allegedly won CZK 1.3 billion on Ukrainian refugees, and that is solidarity. Not mandatory - we accepted because we are solidarity, and we did it like Polák. [[With laughter.]] Not this, compulsory solidarity it is. How is solidarity even mandatory? I don't understand. [[16.00 hours]] So I'm saying that... and we're going to ask Wednesday if Mr. had the mandate. [[Austrian]] And the five-wheeler knows how sensitive this is, how sensitive this is for us, how we fought for it, all night, we killed it at 4:00 a.m., okay? The work we have done to protect our country, because it is a security matter, and again I say that the citizens of the Czech Republic are to decide who will live in our country. Yes, that's it. We're solidarity, and what's this? Well, that's normal - yes, they're not quotas, but it's de facto an invitation to Europe. Angela, she said it hard, and this is a normal invitation because the migrants -- and everyone has a cell phone -- they read it. Oh, that's great, so Evropa has now said that it will accept - what it is - 35,000 or 30,000 each year, it has never been here, 30,000 repeatedly, and there is no ceiling. So if there's 500,000, 600,000, million, then what? It's just a minimum, okay? How will it work, how will they catch them? All this happened on the day that Syřan stabbed five people in France, the day that illegal refugees actually took over a violent ship, the day that Sweden - and Magdalena - when I asked her about the Sharia centers, the no-go zones, crime? After all, the Syřan who stabbed those people in France had asylum in Sweden. What was he looking for, what was he looking for? So now they've done it. Poland - Mr. Rakušan talks about exemption. No one's seen her. We'd like to see the exception, and what exception? As an exception, then, we have where it is written, and why at all? I'm asking why Petr Fiala, the Prime Minister, didn't bring the money in the Bureau? I read that Poland received 200 euros from a Ukrainian refugee. They have 1.6 million, which means 320 million euros, that's CZK 7.7 billion. Tell Mr. Rakušan to tell us how much he got. You should have demanded at least 40 billion! If we applied the 20,000 euros or 500,000 crowns they said to the 516,000 refugees we have here - Mr Okamura was talking about 300,000, no, it's 516,000 - do you know how much money that is? Now, of course, it's a fabulation, it's nonsense. If we say, "Now take them all, and if you don't want them, give us 500,000." Do you know how much money that is? I counted it ten times - 238 billion is, 238 billion! And Mr. Rakušan tells us, well, we don't have to take it. What do they give us for doing this? Yes, we were solidarity, we helped them. Make sure they work with us, have the kids go to school, and make sure it's all okay. But what did we get? We got nothing. The Pole got it, and I'm gonna ask why we didn't get it. Why didn't the Prime Minister go in under the Presidency - that's the easiest - and get the money? When I asked Prima, because they are still making excuses for the war in Ukraine, what impact it has on the budget - because it was clear in the case of covid, how much impact was on the budget, the fall in GDP and 370 billion for people, so it can be counted - so I was just asking, I read in the paper that Ukrainian refugees cost us 30 billion. So let them say it - it's nothing against the Ukrajinec - so that it can be taken into account in the opinion of the budget. We don't know how many guns we put in there either. So those fugitives now, that's a deal that doesn't really have any restrictions. Well, I haven't read the whole thing, but I hope Mr. Rakušan can explain it. That means if anything happens, those Ukrajinec leave, it's true for us. So compulsory solidarity. After all, the word itself is total nonsense, contrary to the SPOLU program, contrary to the government's programming statement. Mr. Rakušan isn't telling the truth, okay? Believe me, I've been doing this a long time, and they're laughing. Yes, if Orbán hadn't built the fence 170 kilometers... Our cops were there, 50 of them were detained by 7,000 refugees and smugglers. The best story was when our policeman tells me: Imagine we arrested a smuggler and he was my neighbor from the Czech Republic. Because the smugglers are waiting there with the cars, the plates of Austria, Germany, they're betting money. This is not acceptable for smugglers to decide who lives with us! If this doesn't change, I'm telling you that - Mr. Rakušan claims - I had an exit to Nova, that supposedly only refugees from Ukraine and the Soviet Union come to us. What's that? Have you forgotten how they guarded the Czech-Slovak border and how the Slovák complained and cursed? No? Heger was upset, and then he came in and dealt with it in kramářův's villa, imagine, an extremely important act, and the result was what? That this should be dealt with on the external border of Schengen. Well, hello, good morning. What I have been lecturing there for four years is that the Western Balkans and Serbia belong to Schengen and that we are to defend Europe at sea, respectable children. Do you know Asterix and Obelix? That's a beautiful fairy tale. Well, it's such a village. So we should have made Europe a village, and the border would have been at sea. When I was Minister of Finance, I came by boat to Dubrovnik and they weren't in Schengen yet, I had a diplomatic passport - that was no Schengen - so I waited two hours for them to let me go, okay? So Europe doesn't understand this crazy stuff, these activists did it. It's a fundamental betrayal. I hope - so I'll be back, I've turned again, because I'm not structured, but whatever. Slovák called an army, Čech introduced controls with Slovakia and Syřan came. But the Rakušan said they were different. One of my famous Němec, Kretschmer, Chancellor Saxony, wanted to introduce them, too, but we have good relationships there, so it didn't work out in the end. So it's not true, it's not true! I remember giving, I don't know what medium - it wasn't TikTok yet, do you have TikTok or Instagram? - when I stopped on the pump, I went to the bathroom and I couldn't wash my hands because those Syrian illegal migrants washed their feet in the sink! Do you remember that? [[Laughs in the hall.]] Just don't laugh. Rakušan, if this happens, let him pray and all of us with him so that something doesn't happen to us like in France. This is unacceptable, the YES movement is fundamentally opposed and we are protesting, it is an absolute incompetence. So I'm gonna save it for Wednesday, and I'm gonna be okay. I'm sure Mr. Rakušan will explain everything. It's abnormal, it's abnormal! We have solidarity, we have taken Ukrajinec, we haven't gotten anything, we haven't negotiated anything, and this agreement that we have an exception, and why, why? Let it show why the Polák disagreed with the exception of why the Slovák were against it, as it is, because it doesn't have logic, it doesn't take the head, okay? So it really is hell. On Wednesday, we expect the Home Secretary to actually tell us the truth, because the way he interprets it, he obviously doesn't understand it, he doesn't know what it is. Vondra understood. Timmermans cheated on you - well, if they cheated on him again. I don't know why they broke the V-4 in the first place. Who started the V four, remember? Václav Havel. Why did they break it? There was coordination, there we scored, there we stopped the illegal migration, there we fought for taxonomy, there we fought for money and everything. 65 million people in this region, huge power, and they smashed it up. So Poland against, the Slovák will stick around, and the Maďar said it clearly, I won't repeat it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-000-000.u18	I noted that the point is called Green Deal, and it's like the first point of today. Did I get that right? First point today. And please another enrollment, which is Mrs Jana Pastuchová, and Mrs Věra Adámková will be prepared, then Mrs Jana Hanzlíková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-000-000.u19	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. As promised, I do. Every meeting, every Tuesday, I allow myself to load the item into the program, House press 241. Today I'm not going to ask him to be on the program for first reading, because at first reading we already have him, there's already a nice debate going on, so I think it's a shame to extend it and stretch it out again. Today I just want to say that it's a year and ten days exactly. 3. 6. 2022, this press was placed by us submitr for discussion. Today there is also an event on Malostranské náměstí, so who was not, can still go, and I beg you not to prolong the first reading, let's move it forward and let's not make excuses for interrupting the first reading when only a few speakers are logged in. So, please, I'm not the first point right now, but the second point, because the first point was suggested by the President, through you, Babiš, so I'd like to do it today, if Mr Babiš's point is placed, then after him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-000-000.u20	Yes. Thank you. Two hundred and forty-one. Please give me the name of the point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-000-000.u21	It's a so-called marriage for everyone. It's a change in the Civil Code.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-000-000.u22	Thank you. I just wrote it down. Vice-President Olga Richterová came forward with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-000-000.u23	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, fellow Members, I would like to take this opportunity to respond to Mrs Jana Pastuchová, with the fact that there is a coalition agreement that this press, which now has the number of paragraph 71, is printing 241, the Civil Code, should be discussed by the end of June. There's a preliminary agreement for the term 29. 6. But what is a technical circumstance, that term is the date of the new meeting, or I cannot now propose this firm inclusion, because it will only be the meeting that will take place in the last week of June. That is why I am here to make it clear that I, as a co-president and many of my colleagues, who support this proposal, want it to be discussed, we have this agreement that it should be discussed by the end of June, and, at the same time, in order to actually discuss it, actually move it through the first reading, we would like to inform ourselves that this is some of our proposal for a procedure to run the negotiations on some of the points that we need to approve before. So much for suggesting how we should continue negotiations on so-called marriage for all, for which I personally wish we had it very much, and that is why I am happy for this clear deadline by the end of June.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-000-000.u24	Thank you, and Madam Vice-President, are you suggesting a point or not?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-000-000.u25	Yes, if it were possible to propose to a new meeting, I would suggest, but it's not possible, so I'm not suggesting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-000-000.u26	So, please, everyone, I've had you talk us into actually performing within, let it be correct, the draft changes to the agenda of the meeting. So the point is not proposed at this time, but we have two more registered here. I'll ask Mrs Adámková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-000-000.u27	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, please allow me to turn your attention, as traditionally, to the health-social boundaries and social issues. First, it is more or less all-embracing, because it touches everyone at one point, touches both children, adolescents, adults and seniors, and we have a lot of confusion here. We know very well that the government is trying to propose various bills that affect this, but unfortunately, the substance is not resolved. We still do not have defined health-social boundaries, we do not have a clear definition of what the health problem is, what the social problem is. If anyone knows hospital problems, you know that in many departments there are people who actually have nowhere to go after the acute part and they need social services, but there is really a problem in the waiting period, so they actually spend that time on the acute beds completely unnecessary and then wait only to solve their social welfare. So I would like us to think again about this problem so that we don't throw it off the table. There is never the will to discuss this fundamental premise of further development, of all other proposals. I understand that gentlemen believe that it will never concern them, because they are immortal, young and beautiful, but I can assure you that this is not the case, because unfortunately... [[A silence.]] I don't really have a fund to shout four male voices, but thank you for not talking anymore, thank you. [[To the Members debating near the fairground.]] I must say that this issue touches almost every person at a certain stage, only the chosen individuals do not have these problems, but that is really few people. We simply do not have a health-social issue solved, it is not clearly formulated, it is not defined, it is not separated by how to cover health care in social institutions in detail. Of course, every institution tries to address this issue, but it is not. So, please, nicely, we have here proposals for some government laws that follow up on improving this situation, but we don't have a resolved substance, which means that we're going to have some sort of pasquil here again that can solve something, but not a whole, and I think what I'm saying repeatedly, that health, disease is not a political issue. If we're not healthy, we won't even fight here, that's what needs to be realized. Let's place this point, let's say the opinions that are on this health-social issue so that we can go on and we can precise the care of those people who need it! We don't have this figured out, we don't, and I repeatedly feel like there isn't even a will to do it anymore. You deal with the little things in these designs, but the little things, that's more or less the technique. But let's really separate the health-social boundaries so that we know clearly what is to be covered by health insurance, what is social. And then there's the other thing we need to figure out. These social services are sometimes so expensive that if you have seniors at home, as I suppose, a pensioner, you know very well that very often - I don't always say - if they need these services, then a family must be composed. The family's lucky to have it together, but we've got families here that just have nowhere to touch. But it concerns both social health care and children, it is not about seniors, please nicely, it concerns children, it concerns young people, so here I think we really have a great deal of debt to our citizens, and there is still a dislike to solve this problem. I say again, you put technology in there. At present, you know that there is a certain transposition of employment relations, and I would like to point out that in health and social services, a number of people are really in agreement, whether they are carrying out an activity or carrying out a job, and we are getting into a proportion of the needs in our market and the possibilities that would be possible. So, please, before we really deal with the techniques, the little things and the different transpositions, let's open this point and tell ourselves what the ideas are, how we'd pay for it and how we'd secure the service, because without exceptions, to work there for more hours, we just can't secure it. I can assure you that any person who needs that service will not take it home, you will not be able to take care of it. I therefore propose this either as the third point of the negotiations today or firmly at 17 o'clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-000-000.u28	Thank you, because I note as a third point, or 17 o'clock. And I will ask another enrollment, and this is Mrs Jana Hanzlíková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-000-000.u29	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for a new point entitled Care allowance is not enough to pay for the necessary care for people with disabilities. [[16.20 hours]] The care and assistance services increased after the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs raised the limits for maximum possible prices in the payment decree in January 2023. An hour can now cost up to 155 crowns, 20 crowns more than before. The care allowance was not increased by the resort. The Minister of Labour and Social Affairs has promised that from July 2023, an amendment to the Social Services Act will apply, which will introduce an automatic validation of the levy. As a result, the care allowance would always increase with pensions. However, the Ministry of Finance has opposed this proposal. At the same time, due to the low evaluation of individual degrees of care allowance and the increase in payment for services, disabled people cannot afford as much services as they really need to be able to live a normal life at least in part. Care allowance is the only dose that allows dependants to buy the help they need. Assistance shall be implemented either through professional providers or provided by a person close to or by a family member. As far as family members are concerned, up to 70 percent of people use this. Families who care are basically just living out of a care allowance and have been facing major financial problems for a long time. The National Council of Persons with Disabilities and all other organisations dedicated to their services to people with disabilities are also very critical of the decision not to approve the valorisation of the care allowance. Given how much financial problems these families have to deal with, I consider it so important that I propose that we discuss this as a new point, and I would ask for the inclusion of this day as a fourth point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-000-000.u30	Thank you. Since we have exhausted all applications for a change to the approved programme - I am watching, no one is claiming priority rights - at this time I will engage and we will take a vote. It will be a little more difficult, so I would especially ask President Excellent, who suggested a number of points if he could also check it. There's an interest in checking you out, so I've checked you all out at this point. I'm gonna ask you to sign in, we're gonna vote. First, we will vote on proposals from the Gremium, and I will no longer read them. My previous speaker, who was in charge of the meeting here, read them all. At this point, I am opening the vote on proposals from the Gremium. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 347, entered 158, for was 154, against no one. Result: accepted. We will therefore now vote on the various proposals for amendments. The first one, I'm just saying, is the one that's not going to vote anymore, he's been arrested, it's been $42.03, the labor code. We can move on to the next one. The promoter was President Výborný. This is the House press 378, a government proposal to amend the constitution. By falling out the first one, this point would become the first point. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 348, registered 163, for was 162, against no one. Accepted. It was also a proposal from the President of the Excellent, including paragraph 441, an agreement in the field of arms, as a fixed second point. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 349, registered 165, for was 149, against no one. Result: accepted. The next item is again the item proposed by Mr President Výborný. This is a draft law on the organisation and implementation of social security. First, we will vote on whether we will allow this point to be included. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 350, registered 165, for was 165, against no one. Result: accepted. And now we can vote on this point - as the third item today. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 351, registered 165, for 165, against no one. Accepted. It will be again a point by the President of the Excellent, House press 126, the annual report by Czech Television. Initiating vote on whether or not to include this item. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 352, 166 registered, 151 was in favour, against no one. Accepted. And now we're going to vote if we're going to place it as a fixed point after point number three, the previous one. And that's true... [[Meeting with a staff member of the organizational department.]] We don't have to vote on this anymore. We are going to the next point and this is a point from the President of the Excellent, House print 269, Czech Radio, results of the management. We'll vote on whether he'll be included. [[Objection from the diaper. Member Benda off the microphone: Today as the fourth, just the order. Member Excellent off the microphone.]] So now it's just the order. So all of these points. This is the Czech Radio and whether the classification will apply as a fourth. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 353, 166 logged in, 147 is in, against no one. Result: accepted. Another point tabled again by President Excellent, House Press 308, is the report on the long-term sustainability of public finances, the fifth point at this time. We are opening the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 354, 166 entered, for 150, against no one. Result: accepted. Mr. Chairman Benda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-000-000.u31	Mr President, I feel that you have missed about three points on the vote. Last we voted on the annual report on Czech Radio's management, perhaps still Czech TV, point 122, and then there was 123, CTK; 124, petition, and then only the sustainability of public finances.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-000-000.u32	You're right, I'm sorry. I've got a line off the chart here, so I went after the next box. But I'll let it vote now. Thank you. Yes. So at this point, we're going to vote in Parliament's press 277 and this is the Czech Television, the annual report, and we're going to vote in turn number 6, because we already have the fifth, so we have the sixth. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 355, 166 registered, 149 was in favour, against no one. Accepted. The next item is 279, CTK, activity and management, and this would be point 7. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 356, 166 logged in, 150 pros, versus no one. Accepted. And the next item is the House Press 293, the report on petitions, so as point 8 today. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting 357, registered 166, for was 148, against no one. Result: accepted. And now the House press 375, the petition report 2022 as the ninth point. [[Reactions in the O.R.]] I just had the eighth written, Mr. Chairman. [[Discussion in the hall.]] Because we just said eight, so it should be nine now, if I count correctly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-000-000.u33	Mr Vice-President, yes, but the ninth point is point 125, the sustainability of public finances, the House's press 308.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-000-000.u34	I had that as a fifth, but when you say ninth... [[Fun in the hall.]] Okay, I got him. It's the ninth. That's why we're giving the tenth. So we are voting once again, House press 385, petition report, and as point 10. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 358, registered 166, 149 was in favour, against no one. Result: accepted. The House print 414 is the next item submitted, it is the annual report on the results of the Czech National Bank's management for the year 2022, 11th point. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 359, registered 166, for was 149, against no one. Result: accepted. The House print 421 is the next item and it is the Annual Report on the activities of the SAO as point 12. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 360, registered 166, for was 149, against no one. Result: accepted. So these were all the points put forward by the President Výborný. Thank you. And then there is the point put forward by President Okamura. It is a new point of the Purple Government wants to turn the Czech Republic into a country of migrants and has agreed to a commitment to compulsory solidarity with countries with high numbers of illegal migrants. First, we're going to vote on whether or not we're going to place this point. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 361, registered 166, for was 74, against was 85. Denied. Did I hear right that he was... he wasn't? No. The next item is the item tabled again by President Okamura, entitled We call on the Purple Government to oppose the approval of the Istanbul Convention, which introduces gender totalitarianism and is a fundamental attack on society and family. And we're going to vote because this is a new point, about the inclusion of this point. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 362, registered 166, for was 68, versus 54. Result: rejected. The next item is the item submitted by President Babiš. This is a new point called Green Deal. [[A request for a word.]] Yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-000-000.u35	Ladies and gentlemen, to vote in paragraph 361 - I voted against, I have a vote in favour at the junk. I'm not questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-000-000.u36	Yes, thank you. The vote shall not be questioned. And another one, yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-000-000.u37	I, too, voted against the vote on the screen record - the vote 361, 362 I voted against, I have a vote on the high. I'm not questioning you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-000-000.u38	Thank you and Mrs Malá.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-000-000.u39	Thank you for the floor. I, too, voted in favour of the 362 vote. I'm not questioning you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-000-000.u40	Thank you. All of them? There. Once again, the promoter of the next point was President Babiš, the name of the Green Deal, this is a new point, so we are voting on the inclusion of this point. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 363, registered 166, for was 75, against 87. Denied. The next item to be voted is from the petitioner and Mrs Pastuchová, this is the House press 241, the amendment of the Civil Code, the so-called marriage for everyone, as the second item today. Initiating vote. I ask, who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 364, registered 164, for 60, versus 29. Result: rejected. [[16.40 hours]] The next item is the item submitted by Mrs Adámková. It is a newly classified point Health and Social Issues. We're going to vote on whether or not we're going to place this point. Initiating vote, who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 365, registered 166, for was 74, against 44. Denied. The last point is the point by Mrs Hanzlíková, the petitioner. This is a new point Care allowance is not enough to pay the necessary care for the ZP, people with disabilities. We will vote on the inclusion of this point. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 366, registered 166, for was 75. Result: rejected. And now we're going to vote on a complete program... Not at the moment. That's why we ran out of points. So we can go to point 12, and that's
