ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening on the third day of the 66th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. To record our participation, I'm going to unsubscribe all of you, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your I.D. cards and, if necessary, tell me who's asking for a replacement card. I hereby declare that the following Members asked to apologise for their absence at today's meeting: Adamec Ivan from 12 o'clock - working grounds, Babiš Andrej for the whole day - working reasons, Bačíková Jana from 12.30 - working reasons, Balaštíková Margita for the whole day - working reasons, Bašta Jaroslav for the whole day - working reasons - health reasons, Bělohlávková Roman from 9.30 - working reasons, Bělor Roman from 12.30 - working reasons, Benešík Ondřej for the whole day - working reasons - working reasons, Blaha Stanislav for the whole day - working reasons, Brabec Richard for the whole day - medical reasons - medical reasons, Dvořák Jaroslav for the whole day - family reasons, Fischerová Romana for the whole day - working reasons - working reasons, Flek Josef for the whole day - working reasons - working days - working reasons, Foldyna Jaroslav for the whole day - working reasons, Golasowská Pavla... Colleagues, colleagues, please calm down! [[The O.R. got a little quiet for a while.]] Oh, thank you. Golasowský Pavla all day - health reasons, Hájek Jiří from 16:00 - working reasons, Hájek Martin whole day - working reasons, Hanzlíková Jana all day - foreign trip, Heller Šimon - personal reasons - whole meeting day, Hrnčíř Jan... [[Silence due to noise in the hall]] hrnčíř Jan all day - health reasons. I still have one message, Mr králíček votes with a replacement card number 27. Janulík Miloslav all day - working reasons, Kašník Pavel all day - working reasons... [[Silence because of the noise in the O.R.]] Kettner Zdeněk from 12 o'clock - working reasons, Klíma Pavel all day - working reasons, Kohoutek Tomáš all day - foreign travel, Koten Radek all day - working reasons, Krutáková Jana all day - personal reasons, Letocha Petr all day - without reason, Levko Jarmila from 11.30 - working reasons, Major Martin all day - working reasons, Ožanová Zuzana from 11 o'clock - working reasons, Pastuchová Jana all day - family reasons. [[Call off the microphone.]] So once again Pastuchová Jana whole day - family reasons, Růžička Pavel whole day - health reasons, Ryba Drahoslav from 12 o'clock - working reasons, Skopeček Jan whole day - working reasons, Smetana Karel whole day - family reasons, Staněk Pavel whole day - working reasons, Teleky Róbert whole day - family reasons, Tureček Karel whole day - health reasons, Vondrák Ivo whole day - foreign trip and Zlínský Vladimír whole day - health reasons. The members of the government apologize: Bartoš Ivan all day - foreign trip, Baxa Martin until 10.50 - working reasons, Bek Mikuláš all day - working reasons, Blažek Pavel within 10 hours - working reasons, Černochová Jana all day - foreign trip, Dvořák Martin all day - foreign trip, Hladík Petr all day - working reasons - working reasons, Jurečka Marian whole day - working reasons, Lipavskýý Jan whole day - working reasons, Nekula Zdeněk whole meeting day - working reasons, Síkela Jozef whole meeting day - foreign trip, Stanjura Zbyněk whole meeting day - foreign trip, Šalomoun Michal up to 11 hours and from 11 to 12 hours - working reasons and Vlastimil Válek whole day - working reasons. Mr Janulík cancels his apology, and Mrs Bělohlávková also cancels her apology from 9 to 9.30. Mrs Balaštíková cancels her apology, and Mr Navrátil also cancels his apology. And there is another message, Mr Havránek votes with a replacement card 23. Yes, and now I have a request for President Schillerová's speech with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-000-000.u2	Thank you. Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I would beg you very briefly. I want to say something other than the subject of the matter that we are going to talk about. Ladies and gentlemen, I am going to perform very briefly, but I feel that I have a duty to do so. It concerns my excellent colleague, Professor Válková, who, after three and a half years, received an apology for an absolutely lying and ugly article that she was supposed to participate in the dissident bullying. I want it to say that the court has confirmed that it was a lie, and the portal has already released an apology. Whoever knows the professor knows from the beginning that this is absolute nonsense. I admire my colleague Válková, how she put up with all this, although I know from my own experience how difficult it is. Let such a decision be a memento for all journalists that they too must take care to write the truth. And at the same time, I would like to call on those of you who, at the time, were so rudely attacking the professor, that you would now publicly apologize to her. For example, I remember President Pekarová, President Michálek, but everyone will remember. I'm sure it's appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-16-ps2021-066-03-000-000.u3	Thank you. And now I'm opening the interrupted point, and that's point number.
