ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-006-023.u1	23. Government bill amending Act No. 374/2015 Coll., on recovery procedures and resolution of the crisis in the financial market, as amended /German press 435/ - first reading I see that, under the authority of the government, the press will be given by Minister Šalomoun, and I beg you, Minister, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-006-023.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is basically a short banking technique. The draft law implements European Union regulations governing prudential access to global systemically important institutions and methods of indirect subscription of instruments eligible to meet the minimum requirement for own funds and eligible liabilities. Since the regulation also amends the European Union directive on recovery procedures and resolution of the crisis of credit institutions, the so-called BRRD, it is also necessary to implement it into the Czech legal system. The amendment is of a technical nature which governs the calculation of the minimum capital requirement and eligible liabilities for global systemically important groups. The amendment will not have a direct impact on the Czech banking sector. However, I ask you to support the bill.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-006-023.u3	Thank you, Minister, and please take the floor of the rapporteur for the first reading, Mr Michal Kohajda. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-006-023.u4	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies Minister, gentlemen Ministers, fellow Members, honourable Members, I am presenting here with a news report to the House of Press 435, the Government's proposal for an amendment to the Act on Recovery Procedures. The Government has submitted a draft of this law to the House on 27 April 2023. It was sent to us as a print of 435/0 on the same day and I just want to point out that the deadline for implementing this regulation is by 15 November 2023. The draft law amends the law on recovery procedures and resolution of the crisis in the financial market. The subject matter of the regulation is, in particular, the regulation of paragraphs 1 to 3 in Section 132b of this Act. This draft law implements certain rules laid down in the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards prudential access to global, systemically important institutions with a resolution strategy in several entities and methods of indirect subscription of instruments eligible to meet the minimum capital requirement and eligible liabilities. The aim of this adjustment is to ensure the harmonisation of the resolution of banks' failures, savings and credit cooperatives and securities traders, where the calculation of the minimum requirement for capital and eligible liabilities, the so-called MREL, is distinguished, as well as the taking into account of persons in a group located outside the European Union who would be designated as subject to resolution if they were established in the European Union but were not. Only to clarify - the resolution group is always composed of one person subject to resolution and its subsidiaries, but they are not themselves subject to resolution. There may then be one or several persons subject to resolution throughout the banking group, depending on the selected group resolution strategy. Some of these persons can then have their seat outside the European Union, and such a situation should be addressed by the amended wording of the Act on Recovery Procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-006-023.u5	Thank you, rapporteur, and I am opening up a general debate in which I see one application with the priority right of the rapporteur. After that, Mr Jan Síla and Mr Jan Volný are signed in. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-006-023.u6	Thank you, Mr President. As the implementation deadline is in November of this year, I propose that the deadline be reduced to 24 days for committee discussions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-006-023.u7	Thank you, I have noted your proposal. Now, then, Mr Jan Síla, and Mr Jan Volný will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-006-023.u8	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government, allow me to also express the SPD's position on this draft. This is a bill designed to deal with the financial market crisis. The reason for the proposed adjustment is the obligation to implement certain rules introduced by the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 October 2022 amending the European Union Regulation on prudential access to global systemically important institutions with a resolution strategy in several entities, methods of indirect subscription of instruments eligible to meet the minimum capital requirement and eligible liabilities to the Czech legal order. [[12.50 hours]] The draft law amends Act No. 374/2015 Coll., on recovery procedures and resolution of the crisis in the financial market, as amended. The original Directive 2014/59/EU establishing a framework for the recovery and resolution of credit institutions and investment firms is a legal act of secondary EU law, which created the necessary framework for effective resolution of banks and other financial institutions in response to the financial crisis in 2007 and 2008. The main objective of this adjustment was to ensure the harmonisation of the resolution of banks and other financial institutions and securities traders and other defined persons and thus to meet the recommendations of the Financial Stability Council requiring the creation of instruments to ensure that the costs of the default of such institutions are not borne by taxpayers. The transposition of the directive into the Czech legal order took place by the adoption of Act No. 375/2015 Coll., the so-called Amendment Act, with effect from 1 January 2016. By Directive 2019 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2019 on the capacity of credit institutions and investment firms to absorb losses and the recapitalisation capacity, it unites the European legal framework for crisis management in the financial market with an international standard on the requirement of total capacity to absorb losses. The bill is presented mainly because of the need to implement the regulation of the European Union into the Czech rule of law. Under this Regulation, resolution authorities should also take into account in the calculation persons established outside the European Union who would be designated as subject to resolution if they were established in the European Union. The direct relation of the proposed law to no specific international treaty has been identified. The current bill is only implementation of the requirements and regulation of the European Union, with no immediate impact on the state budget, other public budgets, and no direct impact on the business environment of the Czech Republic. The legislation also does not foresee social impacts, including on socially vulnerable people with disabilities and national minorities, or on the environment. The laws in question contain numerous authorisations of public authorities bearing the potential risk of corrupt behaviour from the nature of the matter, both on the part of public authorities and regulated entities. However, the draft law does not extend the powers of the Czech National Bank as a competent authority to deal with these crises and the supervisory authority of the obliged entities in the Czech Republic. The competent authority in the matter is the Czech National Bank as a resolution authority. At the same time, this body is managing and does not facilitate any corruption, but does not actually worsen the possible detection of corruption. For these reasons, the SPD considers the proposed legal standard to be redundant and therefore has no reason to support it. I'm making a motion to dismiss. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-006-023.u9	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Now, Mr Jan Volný, duly registered, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-006-023.u10	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues, fellow Members, I will not repeat here what three of my previous speakers have already said, only to confirm that the reason for the proposed legislation is indeed an obligation to implement certain rules and laws imposed by the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union. For the moment, I propose to my colleagues that we release this press for second reading, and we wait for the debate on the Committee on Budgets. If there is no tendency to involve any other rules and amendments, we have no problem with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-006-023.u11	Thank you. Now, Mr Munzar, duly registered, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-006-023.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Hello again, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. I didn't really want to perform, but I was provoked by a colleague of the Síla, through you. I have a different opinion about this. I do not consider this directive redundant. It may seem to us here from the point of view of the Czech Republic that it is only a technical amendment and the topic of stability of financial institutions may not be the topic in the Czech Republic, because the banking sector is stable and strong here. On the other hand, this is a very strong issue in the European Union, because underestimating the stability of the banking and financial sector led to an economic crisis in 2008, which, even if we do not have the euro, has hit us very hard in the Czech Republic. Therefore, I cannot really consider this amendment redundant. Indeed, in the abbreviations contained in the explanatory memorandum, it is very, I would say, robustly hiding the question of the stability of financial institutions, capital adequacy, the proportion of risky assets, the ability to absorb any losses of these financial institutions and the requirement for eligible liabilities. Why is it so important? Because if a financial institution cannot absorb potential losses from risk capital, especially - and we have seen this on specific cases - then not only the financial institution itself is at risk, but unfortunately, if it is a real global player, the risk and costs are borne not only by the owners of the institution, but by the entire economy. There are losses, if any, when states then help to bail out - and we saw it in the financial crisis before those x years - banks precisely to ensure that the impacts on the economy are not even worse. In economics, the term "domino effect" is used. This means that the real loss or risk of one institution's loss, the decline of one global financial institution, can actually lead to an effect that will affect other financial institutions, especially in an environment where banks then borrow among themselves. Of course, the domino effect then deepens the problems further. Therefore, I cannot agree, I really cannot agree, that this amendment is redundant. This may seem to us, because the Czech National Bank very well monitors the stability of Czech institutions, Czech banks, in the Czech Republic. The capital adequacy of Czech banks or Czech branches is far greater than the value of 8 percent, under which it should not fall. Even Czech banks have, many of them have, foreign mothers and they can deal with this. So for us, although this may seem like a technical overdue amendment, this amendment is also very important to us in the Czech Republic. Therefore, my colleagues, I would ask you not to vote in favour of rejecting this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-006-023.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. For the record, I'm asking if anyone else is joining the debate? I do not see any further applications, and for this reason I am ending the general debate. Do I ask whether the Minister or the rapporteur are prepared to say the final word? [[No. No.]] It's not like that. We will therefore now put to the vote on the individual proposals as they have been read. Yes, I'm registering a request for your check-out, and I'm going to check you out, and I'm going to ask you to re-engage with your cards. During the debate, two proposals were made, one was rejected and then the deadline was reduced. [[13.00 hours]] First of all, I am going to put to the vote the motion to reject the proposal tabled by Mr Síla. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this motion for rejection? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? It is a vote with order number 138, 136 Members are registered, for proposal 11, against 114. This proposal was rejected. We will therefore continue to discuss this press. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion and first decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organisational Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I don't see a suggestion. In that case, I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees that the proposal submitted be ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 139, registered with 141 Members, for 138, against 1. The proposal has been approved. We have agreed that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee. I ask, do you have a motion on the commandment to the next committee or committees for discussion because the Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee? I don't see a suggestion. Thank you. We will therefore now vote on the last proposal, and that is the proposal to shorten the time limit for discussion. This proposal is that we shorten the deadline to 24 days. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of the proposal for a 24-day reduction period? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 140, 142 Members and Members registered, for proposal 129, against 11. I note that we have agreed to the proposal, and we have reduced the deadline for the hearing to 24 days. I thank you, end the discussion of this point and hand over the proceedings of the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-006-023.u14	I wish you all a good afternoon and allow me to start discussing paragraphs 71 and 83 in which the debate is to be merged. So I'm opening point number.
