ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-008-003.u1	3. Government bill on the abolition of obsoletal legislation /German press 347/ - second reading Under the authority of the Government, the draft bill will be presented by the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior Vít Rakušan. I beg you, Minister, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-008-003.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have already made more detailed comments on the proposal in the first reading. I will recapitulate only the most important taxes of the proposal. The aim of this bill is to abolish 6 667 obsoletních legislation, i.e. regulations that are extinguished and in practice not applicable. Another 3 616 legislation, which has already been abolished, but only in general, then the law states explicitly that the principle of legal certainty is in view of the principle of legal certainty. The Czech legal system will thus be cleared by 10 283 unnecessary legislation. [[12.00 hours]] The Ministry of the Interior has been dealing with the issue of the abolition of obsoletal legislation across government guarantees since 2019, including on the basis of the resolution of the Constitutional and Legal Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of 10 October 2018. The Ministry of the Interior has implemented a project in which the entire legal order of the Czech Republic has been analysed over the past hundred years, i.e. from the establishment of Czechoslovakia to the end of 2018. The results of the analysis of the rule of law were sent to all ministries and other administrative authorities for comments and were also consulted with the academic legal community. The adoption of the bill will clear and clarify the legal order of the Czech Republic, where only the legislation that is really relevant to the addressees of the law will be displayed in the future. We all know that legislative processes are to be digitized as well, and so, at the same time, in the collection and other elements of eLegislativa, of course, these legislation will no longer appear, where we can, of course, generate financial savings. Only to the data. In the previous proposal, which we inherited after the previous administration of the Ministry, we received 812 proposals of legal standards for annulment. Thus, after further analysis, another 5,800 were discovered, which were also proposed for cancellation. I've been giving some examples here the last time. These are things that, of course, have nothing to do in the current legal order - celibacy teachers and so on. Its abolition from 1919 and a number of other humorous examples would certainly be found there by all of us who discussed the facts in detail. Please note that this is more than 560 pages of text. Some legislative technical deficiencies have been identified at the Ministry of the Interior. These will be read in the framework of the amendment after consultation with the Ministry of the Interior by the rapporteur. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-008-003.u3	Thank you, Minister. I wish you a lovely noon, colleagues, colleagues. We took turns managing the meeting. I note that, at first reading, we ordered the proposal to discuss the constitutionally-legal committee as a committee of guarantee. The committee resolution was delivered as House Press 347/1, and I am asking that the rapporteur of the Constitutional Legal Committee, Mr Petr Gazdík, take the floor. But that's not Petr Gazdík, that's President Cogan, so I guess there's been a change in the rapporteur, isn't it? [[Yes.]] Since we are at second reading, we do not need to vote, and I will ask the President to inform us about the discussion of the proposal in the committees and to justify any amendments. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-008-003.u4	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to brief you on how the constitutionally-legal committee discussed this press. The Constitutional Legal Committee discussed this press at its 21st meeting on 12 April 2023 and agreed on a recommendation to the Chamber of Deputies to approve the proposal, at the same time commissioned the Chair of the Committee to present the resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament and authorised the Committee rapporteur to report at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on the results of the discussion of this draft law at the meeting of the Constitutional Legal Committee. I am only, as the Minister has announced, then, in the general debate, I will also put forward an amendment, which concerns, in particular, legislative technical adaptations, but there is actually one part, which is not entirely legislative technical regulation, which is why it is better to make it an amendment, so that you can get to know it in more detail. So that concludes my intelligence report at this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-008-003.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am now opening up a general debate to which Members have signed up - Mr Kohoutek, who I am asking to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-008-003.u6	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, fellow Members, allow me to comment on the Commission's proposal for a government bill on the abolition of obsolete legislation. The legal order of the Czech Republic contains a large number of legislation and international treaties, with a considerable part of these legislation being obsolete. The adjective obsoletní is a legal standard which, although still formally valid, has not been abolished in the prescribed manner, but is no longer used, thus does not cause legal effects. Thus, it practically has the same effect as if it had been abolished, since the obsessive legal standard can no longer bind anyone, cannot establish, change or distort individual rights and obligations. From the point of view of real practice, the existence of these regulations is completely redundant, but one of the main problems is the fact that it is often impossible to say exactly which legislation is still in force and which is not. For citizens, but also for public authorities, it can be very difficult in some cases to orientate themselves in legislation and to identify which of the legislation must be followed. Already in the previous parliamentary term, a Government Bill on the abolition of selected obsoletal legislation of 1 October 2019 was submitted, namely under the House press 608. The draft law was drawn up on the basis of a resolution of the Constitutional and Legal Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic of 10 October 2018 under number 84, in which, inter alia, the Constitutional and Legal Committee asks the Government of the Czech Republic to address the problems arising from the existence of obsolete legislation and propose options for its resolution. This House press, i.e. number 608, was approved at first reading in the last parliamentary term, but its discussion was closed at the end of the parliamentary term. The aim and main principle of the bill presented is to abolish obsolent legislation by means of a government bill. Following the Government's resolution of 17 June 2019 under number 438 and activities related to the construction of the eCollection and eLegislativa system, the Ministry of the Interior carried out a project called Analysis of the Law of the Czech Republic in order to identify obsolete legislation, co-financed by the European Social Fund through the Employment Operational Programme. This project was focused on the analysis of the entire legal order of the Czech Republic and its output is the identification of existing legislation, which was announced in the Czech Republic from 28 October 1918 to 31 December 2018 in official publication sheets, but are no longer used and does not produce legal effects. On the basis of the analysis, several thousand legislation has thus been identified, which is obsolent and should be abolished. It is therefore proposed that these legislation be repealed by the proposed draft law. It should be noted that legal relations based on the legislation contained in the draft law will remain unaffected after the repeal of this legislation. The principle of the prohibition of retroactivity of legislation is therefore applied. This means that, if a legal relationship has already been established by law, the later derogation of ex nunc legislation cannot therefore cause such a legal relationship to exist without a legal title, nor can it affect the validity of acts taken in accordance with this drugged legislation at the time of its validity, as this would be an unacceptable genuine retroactivity, which, of course, is prohibited in any legal order under democratic legal regimes. The proposal did not include legislation issued during the period of non-freedom as defined in Art. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2 of the constitutional decree of the President of the Republic No. 11/1945 of the Official Journal of the Czechoslovak Republic, on the restoration of legal order, published under No. 30/1945 Coll., and in conjunction with Government Regulation No. 31/1945 Coll., which sets the end of the non-freedom period for the field of legislation on the renewal of legal order, i.e. between 30 September 1938 and 4 May 1945. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2 of the constitutional decree of the President of the Republic No. 11/1945 of the Official Journal of the Czechoslovak Republic, therefore, there is no need to abolish legislation which is not part of this rule of law. Also, legislation was not exceptionally included in the draft law, which, although it might show characteristics of obsolete legislation, will not be proposed for annulment, taking into account their cultural and historical importance, such as reception standards, legislation introducing land reform, legislation regulating the former status of universities and the like. [[12.10 hours]] What should be mentioned in particular is not included in this bill also in the decrees of the President of the Republic, commonly known as the Benešův Decrees, including constitutional decrees and legislation is changing or implementing, due to possible political and international legal implications. Following consultations with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, government decrees, regulations and communications published by international treaties and other elements relevant to their implementation have also been excluded from the regulations proposed for annulment. The publication of international treaties and other essential facts for their implementation is based on a different principle than in the case of legislation. While older legislation is explicitly abolished by other legislation, there is no explicit abolition of acts originally declared by international agreements in the case of international agreements. Instead, new communications are issued - in parentheses or earlier decrees or government decrees - which have published facts on the basis of which, for example, the international treaty has ceased international legal validity. Disruption of decrees and communications by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs would probably create legal uncertainty about the data for which international treaties, which have already expired, have actually expired. It also follows from the case law of the Constitutional Court that the international legal validity and national effectiveness of international treaties which are part of the rule of law may not be the same. In conclusion, the existence of this legislation is completely redundant from the point of view of real practice, but one of the main problems is the fact that it is often impossible to say exactly which legislation is still in force and which is not. The proposed bill is in accordance with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic and the proposed measures are in accordance with the law of the European Union and the current case law of the judicial authorities of the European Union. The proposed measures are also in line with the international treaties to which the Czech Republic is bound, including international treaties on human rights and fundamental freedoms. We, of course, also discussed the question of the legislation concerning the Slovak Republic and the Federation on the constitutional law committee, when these amendments were included after a mutual discussion on the constitutional law committee, or I assume that they were included in the Cogan amendment, which I had the opportunity to study, of course. So I can say for our club that we will also support this amendment, which will be tabled or uploaded into the system by my colleague Cogan. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-008-003.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The next in the general debate will be presented by Mrs Vladimíra Lesenská. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-008-003.u8	Thank you. Mr President, ministers, colleagues, colleagues, and I, for the SPD, can say that the laws should indeed be available to citizens in the simplest and clear form possible. Our legal order contains laws which, although formally applicable, have not been abolished in the prescribed way throughout the whole period, but do not apply and do not cause legal effects. This press, that is to say, press 347, abolishes obsolate regulations accordingly, and the SPD supports both the colleague's amendment and the entire bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-008-003.u9	Thank you, Madame. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the general debate? Yes, the rapporteur. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-008-003.u10	Thank you. At this point, I am more of a Member than a rapporteur, because I would like to justify an amendment which is already being recorded in the system. This is Amendment 2648 and I would briefly justify it. In particular, this proposed amendment corrects the text's written errors or implements formal legislation on technical amendments to the proposal, but I still propose it as an amendment under some caution, where, in particular, paragraph 8 of this proposal is said to be impossible to sub-class just under legislative technical changes, but it already has, let's say, a structure, which is why an amendment is needed. Among other things, it is therefore also proposed to delete the provisions which, although proposed for annulment, have already been repealed by another legislation in the meantime since the submission of the proposal. This is more really about specifying the proposal. This is an amendment in cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior. It is also proposed that certain legislation issued by the Slovak authorities be deleted after the formation of the Federation in 1969. Although these are undoubtedly unusable in the environment of the Czech Republic and also in Slovakia were either abolished or overcome, there is no need to break regulations that are not part of the Czech legal order. Otherwise, I'd say I'm following up on my colleagues. What they have said here, I merely confirm and justify the amendment, which I will then sign up for in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-008-003.u11	Anyone else reporting for the general debate? I don't see anyone. I'm done with the general debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words? There's no interest in final words. I therefore launch a detailed debate and recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. Mr Cogan is reporting for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-008-003.u12	I hereby take the liberty of signing up for Amendment 2648, which is included in the system and which I have already justified in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-18-ps2021-065-03-008-003.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Anyone else reporting for a detailed debate on this press? It's not like that. I'm ending the debate in detail. I don't think there's any interest in final words again. This is how we dealt with this press, and I am ending the second reading of this proposal. Now let's continue with the point.
