ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-059-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 59th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Before we begin this 59th meeting, I would like to remind you that the circus 7 minutes after the end, or the interruption of this meeting at 16 o'clock, we would start the 60th meeting and at 17.30 61st meeting. [[A commotion in the hall.]] I'm sorry. I feel like it's supposed to be at 5:00. That's right, yes. So at 5:00 p.m., we'd start the 60th meeting and at 5:30 p.m., 61st meeting. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you all out and ask you to sign up with your identification cards. The replacement cards and their numbers are valid as stated at the 54th and 58th meetings. This meeting was convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 48 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Wednesday, March 1st of this year. We shall now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we appoint a Member of Barbora Urbanová and a Member of Ondřej kolář. Does anyone else have a suggestion? I don't see anyone reporting with another proposal. I'll reengage and call in colleagues from the lobby. I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Voting number 1, 151 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 148, against 1. The motion was accepted. I note that we have appointed a Member of the Chamber of Deputies, Barbora Urbanová and Ondřej Kolář, as verifiers of the 59th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Now I'll read the apologies. She apologizes to Markéta Pekarová Adamová from 15 o'clock for work reasons. We will now proceed to the establishment of the 59th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No amendment or addition of the agenda can be proposed, nor can the approved agenda be extended. Now I have applications with priority rights. First, President Jakob - withdraws his application, and now Vice-President Karel Havlíček will appear and prepare President Tomio Okamura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-059-01-000-000.u2	Madam Vice-President, honourable Member, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, Babišův's dearness - do you remember the marketing motto of the opposition then? It was September 2021 and I have to start because, according to Eurostat, inflation in the Czech Republic was 4 percent. Today, according to the same source, it's 19.1 percent. A few months later, in December 2021, I deliberately state the date on which we handed over the government, inflation was on the European Union average, today 90 percent higher - 90 percent higher than the European Union average. What are the reasons? There is no doubt that we need to be fair and say that this is also a global reason, whether because of the pandemic, then a large decline in trades, closed all establishments, then extreme demand growth, and that was the first stage, we can call it demand inflation. Undoubtedly one of the reasons was also the rise in commodity prices, especially energy, minerals, and this had already begun to tilt into so-called cost inflation, which was in the autumn of 2021, in simple terms, companies had extremely high inputs and they had to tilt into their prices. As a result, of course, prices of various materials, as well as services, feed, and so on have increased. The central banks also bear their share of responsibility, I deliberately say the central banks in plural because, even at the end of the pandemic, the world central banks held rates almost to zero, the vast majority of them actually had them at absolute zero, which was the reason for borrowing money from various speculators and the inflation spiral was spinning. These banks generally went from extreme to extreme because, on the one hand, they held rates to zero for too long, and they were undoubtedly one of the drivers of how inflation started to evolve, and later, some banks, including unfortunately, the Czech central bank, have already sat on the wild tiger and started bidding interest, however, at a time when it shifted from demand to cost inflation, unfortunately, it no longer had the effect. This was sometimes the turning point of 2021/2022. The labour market also has an impact on this, especially where it is inflexible, which was the Czech Republic. And it has to be said that inflation has been brutally underestimated by the government. It is not true that the government does not have a more fundamental effect on inflation. I'd take that part of the demand, it's not the cost. The government has a wide range of fiscal measures - from working with a budget to regulating prices, such as energy prices, or, for example, reducing VAT - to trying to push inflation down. And there was a big mistake, as a result of which the prices of various products, goods, services and, of course, also food went up. To be objective again, there were other reasons for food - weaker crops, those are external reasons, various speculations on markets, blocked ports in Ukraine, extortion of Russia - do you remember that? Wheat and so forth. In any case, however, the rise in energy prices was the main cause and we have warned about this throughout 2022. Our goal was to knock down energy prices, knock them down at least temporarily, if possible for everyone. We suggested different solutions. The best thing seemed to us was to go through producer prices, especially electricity producers, thus achieving this. Answer? Obscenity, reliance on a European solution. Do you remember when Minister Síkela kept pushing away the solution with the agreement at European level? The unwillingness to regulate precisely for manufacturers to end up making extremely complicated solutions, starting with an energy-saving tariff that did not have much success, until after a huge pressure ceiling, however, came extremely late and in relatively high amounts, which led to the fact that de facto today there is nothing to compensate, because market prices in the meantime went to a lower price. However, all of this was not, and it is important to say, an anti-inflationary character. If producer prices collided, it was anti-inflationary. Energy prices from 2021 to 2022: for the first half of 62 percent increase in electricity in the Czech Republic, while for other countries, the surrounding countries were up to 10 percent. And when we look at energy prices through purchasing power, so in February, let's be absolutely precise, the last one comes first, considering the worst electricity price and fourth one, considering the worst gas price. [[16.10 hours]] Adding to this the fact that we have extremely high VAT, even the highest of all surrounding countries - in our country it's 15 percent food, in Germany it's 7 %, in Austria, if I remember correctly, it's 10 %, in Slovakia it's also 10 % and Poland, there it was 5 percent, but they put it temporarily to zero - so high VAT. In addition, incredible environmental measures, climate measures, which support our government, have even been the flagship of the Presidency of the European Union, which has significantly reduced animal production over the last few months, for example. In addition, it is necessary to say the specific position of the trade chains in the Czech Republic, which I do not blame for this government, or the previous one, but this is due to the 1990s and the way in which they acquired the share of the multinational trade chain. They have total market control, local traders are missing to a greater extent, who would have a larger market share, there are missing Czech chains, such as Poland, and so on. Here, let's look for a mistake in the 1990s. The important thing is that the business chains, and we are already getting to the point, determine prices. And let us not be manipulated by the fact that these are the worthy multinational corporations that are with us because they support our economy and that they create a great market competitive environment here. They're here to make uncompromising money. In fact, they can't be blamed for that. But let's not let the fact that the culprits are the naughty growers, the farmers, the food farmers, and so on. Sometimes I really feel like we're out of our minds. After all, every country tries to support its producers, its farmers, its foodmakers. We sometimes do it the other way around, and it doesn't matter if he's a big food man and a farmer or a small food man. Anyone who employs here, who produces here, and who works here in this business deserves respect, and we should support them, and not try to create the appearance of society, that they are the ones who are making their pockets here, and protect the transnational chains that here, the truth, will make some money, but in any case, they will pull the money out to their parent destinations, and when they don't like it here, they'll get picked up and gone, while local farmers stay here in the vast majority, there's nothing else for them either. Well, it's just to get some facts together. What is the result? We are becoming one of the most expensive countries in the European Union with regard to food prices. As for the new trend in food tourism, it is no longer only Poland, which could be understood in part, it used to be in the past, but it is already in the last months even in Germany. Yes, we go to Germany, where the average wage is almost three times higher, despite fuel prices to buy food. Does that seem normal to us? We've been alerting this for a year. Arrogance, disdain, elitism. You may have noticed that the prices of the turntable were being checked, but there were no systemic measures. Yes, we've brought it to the attention of various marketing tools. We didn't even expect him to catch on. Of course, we took it with a certain exaggeration, but that's not important. We wanted to show the absurdity, the absurdity of the headlin you used on all the billboards - that was Babišův's expensiveness, although you knew very well that inflation was pan-European back then. You weren't ashamed to give these billboards, you weren't ashamed to win the election so that, if we showed dear Fialův's butt, which became a real hit, you suddenly started getting upset, you started putting it together with seasonality or non-seasonality. Yeah, we can compare it when it's a season when it's not a season, but what we wanted to show is extreme prices, among other vegetables, which we managed to do, to be honest. What is irrelevant is whether you put five eggs or eight eggs into it, the important thing is that we have vegetables here as peppers worth almost CZK 200 a kilo in the last few days, while in the same period in the United Kingdom, it is half the price. That's not normal, either. Yes, it is also due, of course, to the fact that it has to be imported here, and it is done in other countries, of course, because it was dry, but it is due, among other things, to the fact that export or import here into the Czech Republic in this case is extreme this year. Why? I will quote the executive of the company that is the owner - the operator of large domestic greenhouses: "The price of electricity increased five times in comparison to the beginning of 2021, and this is so high that we are no longer worth using the production lights and thus have production from December to February," said the managing director of the company. Among other things, growers also do not bet because of the high price of gas. And if we look at the typical product that will bother us in a few weeks, and these are eggs, because we probably register that before Easter they will cost almost 10 crowns, while two years ago they cost 2.50, we are now moving somewhere at the price of about 8 crowns, which is in itself crazy. There's no doubt the bird flu has its effect, whether we're being objective about this, but I want to show something else on it, I want to show the manufacturer, or in this case the farmer, and the chains. Interesting number: in September 2022 the price from farmers to traders, let's see, to business chains, was 23.59 crowns - average. They put their margin on it and sold it for 35.51 kroner, so the delta, the difference, the gross margin, in simple terms, 12 kroner. By the end of 2022, things were different. Farmers, due to high energy input prices - you will remember how they went up in September, in October - had to increase their energy, and it was no longer 23.50, but 32.90. But what is more important - I am still talking about 10 eggs - the chains have already sold them for 50.99 kroner, which means their gross margin was no longer 12 kroner, but it was already 18 kroner. And all I'm saying is that while the farmer goes 32.90, before that 23.50, the merchant now had a gross margin of 18 crowns on 10 eggs. It is a fact that energy costs have risen to him too, but they are incomparable to farmers, because what is essential is that 70 per cent of the price of eggs today makes the price of feed, and the price of feed depends on the price of fertilizer and the price of fertilizer depends on the price of energy, in this case gas. I just wanted to show one thing or more things about this. First of all, how cheap it is to use the headlins of the type, who is to blame, because notice that despite the criticism that we have of this government, and sometimes it is overwhelming, I admit, we never claimed that it is Fialův's price, because it is not. It is true that this government is to blame for not working with energy prices, and that its guilt - partial - because prices are rising, is undoubtedly. But in any case, we always need to be well aware when we show who is the culprit. It's not quite that simple, and in any case, it's the fact that transnational chains dictate prices here, and it's quite typical of these eggs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-059-01-000-000.u3	Thank you. President Okamura will now take the floor with priority, then President Radim Fiala SPD, and in the end, Vice-President Dostálová. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-059-01-000-000.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, this hasn't been done in the Czech Republic. Since food and energy prices are rising most in history, there is an extraordinary opposition meeting on the agenda to address food prices that the Purple Government is simply refusing to address. This is not, as you in the Fialův Government would say, some populist sentence that the Czech Republic hasn't experienced yet, but a headline from pro-government media. From December to January alone, prices have increased by another 6 percent. Food in the Czech Republic is much more expensive than the European average. For hundreds of thousands of our citizens, some basic foods are becoming disproportionately expensive. More and more citizens are forced to buy food in Poland or Germany, where they are significantly cheaper. According to European Union Statistical Office data Eurostat in our country increased food prices by 19,6 % year on year in January, while it was 15.5% on average throughout the EU. This is also due to the fact that the Czech Republic has one of the highest VAT rates for food in Europe - 15%. Compared to neighbouring countries, this difference is marked. In Austria, Germany and Slovakia, the VAT rate for food ranges from 5 to 10 per cent and Poland reduced VAT to zero for basic foods last year. The same has been proposed and demanded by the SPD in the long run, and the Fialův Government refuses to do so in order to reduce VAT to selected basic food to zero. [[16.20 hours]] Another SPD proposal that would introduce the obligation of retail chains to buy from domestic producers a percentage of food that can be produced in the Czech Republic would also help Czech consumers, farmers and food professionals. This proposal of ours in the last parliamentary term blocked the Senate, returned it to the House and was subsequently rejected by members of the parties to today's government coalition, as well as the ANO movement. The current situation has not yet been experienced by the independent Czech Republic. At the same time, inflation in Europe is even slowing for the third month in a row. The European Statistical Office Eurostat stated that inflation grew by more than 19 percent year on year due to January's jump and was one of the top three in the European Union countries. Let me just remind you that, for example, behind Hungarian inflation, there is enormous wage growth and rising purchasing power of the population, but, as we know in the Czech Republic, of course, it is not. Here, on the contrary, the purchasing power of both workers and pensioners is falling, and the government is working against the Maďar to make the real value of the income of citizens, young and old, as low as possible. By the Fialův Government, there was a process of targeted begging. The fact that the austerity tariff, which the government subsidized for domestic electricity from October to December, is due to the January leap is, however, only partially explained by the 6% year-on-year increase in prices. If the tariff did not exist, the Czech Statistical Office calculated that monthly inflation would increase by 3,4 percent in January. However, such a result is unique in Europe, and only Slovakia and Hungary are approaching it. In particular, electricity prices, which increased by 139 percent, also increased the price of other energy and food at a record-breaking price in January. I describe the situation in the Czech Republic. The price of heat increased more significantly as well as a number of regulated prices associated with the operation of the household, such as gutter and water. Now, according to statistics, prices should be on the ceiling and start to fall. In summer, inflation should be 10 per cent instead of the current 17.5 per cent. It's not free. A slight increase in unemployment, corporate bankruptcy, can be expected. Moreover, traders can market prices as long as customers are willing to pay them. In January, inflation slowed down exclusively in the West due to the decline in energy prices mainly in Italy, Belgium, Ireland, the Netherlands, Greece, Spain and Portugal. Price growth has accelerated slightly in France and Germany. But even faster was the price increase in the east of the continent; in the west, the decline in headline inflation is enough to reduce energy prices. The December data show that gas, electricity and fuel have increased by an average of 25 percent across Europe and that regions do not differ significantly in this respect. Global food shortages have also hit Europe, but food is more expensive in our country than in the West. The increase in food prices in Western Europe was roughly half as much against the east. The difference was even more striking for everything else, i.e. for all industrial goods and services, which only dramatically increased in Central and Eastern Europe, I mean the Czech Republic and east of us. With their one-third wages, our citizens will pay much more for electricity and gas than our Western and Southern neighbours pay for their triple wages. Our citizens will also pay a little more for petrol and also for basic food. Economists have begun to frighten the public with the word persistence that has not yet been used. With his help, they want to explain that inflation can surprise its stamina. Traders can raise prices as long as they think customers have enough money, or as long as they want to replace the loss from government regulations, or simply match prices to Western levels. Czech, humanly speaking - transnational chains have decided, as did banks in the time of the financial crisis, that the Eastern colonies will once again pay the West for the crisis that the West has caused. It must be said that this is not just about food prices. The economist Ilona Švihlíková speaks of neocolonialism and is right. We have obedient Brussels and American governors and we are acting like colonies. We are totally dependent on our foreign partners, whether they are Němec or Číňan. Let me repeat the fact that inflation in the West is sufficient to reduce energy prices. Yes, we have the most expensive energy in Europe and Czech electricity literally and to the letter, Czech electricity is cheaper in countries where we export it than in our country. Expensive energy means expensive bakeries, expensive cement plants, expensive steel, expensive transportation, everything, not just the rolls and bread. All European governments are therefore trying to reduce energy prices in some way, but the Czech government has introduced such a high ceiling, which, on the contrary, has been an impulse for energy suppliers to become more expensive regardless of the actual cost of the energy product. Of course, another cause of the so-called Purple's expensiveness is the declining self-sufficiency of the Czech Republic in food, but there is no doubt that Czech competition is lacking for multinational chains, because the increase in the price of the crown should make imports from abroad cheaper - and the world wonders, traders buy cheaper, but sell more expensive ones. At one time, margins or interest were considered to be higher than 8, 10 per cent for usury and such odds were punished. Today, businessmen are tearing us down by tens of percent, and it's the multinational chains, and the energy industry is thousands of percent in their price tags, and what does the Fialův government say? Nothing. Instead of nationalizing CEZ, as suggested by the SPD, she stepped out of the Leipzig Stock Exchange and tried to lower energy prices for companies and citizens, the Fialův government sits and looks and complains that Putin is responsible for everything. I may actually begin to believe that Putin is paying the Fiala and the European Commission to help destroy the European economy without a single shot, because, at present, we have the most expensive and at the same time less quality food than our Western masters, the Fialův Government and its commitment to orders from Brussels are responsible. The solution is simple again. [[is]] This government should leave and stop destroying our country, our companies and our citizens. Unfortunately, without the food or anything else, it won't be cheaper. And once again, I would like to call on the five-wheelers to approve the programme of this extraordinary opposition meeting, because we have already had an extraordinary point here to address expensive food for the government to help Czech citizens with expensive food, and I have been proposing this here regularly for over a year. For more than a year, I draw attention to the fact that in Poland, for example, food is cheaper than in our country. I point out that food prices are rising sharply and that citizens are getting into a difficult situation because of the Fialův government, the Fialův government's five-calice, but it's like playing the wall. You're not doing anything for it. Again, the Czech Republic has even the highest VAT from Central European countries. So, our citizens, including President Pavel, you supported... President Petr Pavel is still driving ostensibly to buy cheap food in Poland instead of dealing with expensive food in the Czech Republic and pushing your government. So I wanted to call on you and ask you to approve the agenda for this extraordinary meeting so that we can offer you the detailed solution proposed by the SPD movement, because the Purple Coalition clearly has no solution to expensive food, nor do you want to address it, and I would like to call on you to stop blocking this topic and to help the citizens of the Czech Republic here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-059-01-000-000.u5	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will read the apologies: Jan Jakob apologizes from 16.05 to 16.45 for work reasons. The President of Radim Fiala is now registered with priority rights and Vice-President Klára Kovářová will prepare herself. [[Steady-state]] I'm gonna... [[Laughs in the hall.]] I have no intention of performing, I think there is another candidate here, and this is Vice-President Klára Dostálová, and I am handing over the proceedings of the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-059-01-000-000.u6	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to contribute a little bit with my drop to food prices. The Czech Republic has never experienced such a sharp rise in prices in modern history as it did in January this year. This record-breaking price increase was mainly due to electricity prices, but also to food prices at the end. At the same time, prices in Europe are already stagnating or falling for the third month in a row. The increase in food prices in Western and Central Europe is a maximum half of the Czech Republic's prices. Over the past year, our food prices have increased by more than 20 percent, and this is only an average, for many basic foods such as milk, dairy products, oils, fats, sugar, fruit, vegetables and the like, growth is dramatic and exceeds significantly 50 percent. A separate chapter is currently, for example, fruit production. The government is not helping our fruit farmers to reflect unfair foreign competition, it is crushing our domestic Czech market. This is because they do not buy their production from foreign trade chains at a price that would feed Czech setters and fruit farmers, because they prefer cheaper subsidised fruits from abroad, such as Poland. ♪ They're gonna ♪ Polák also do not produce it at prices for which our seters produce it, but because they have export subsidies, they can afford to lower the price and offer it to chains. Štěpán Chára, Managing Director of Bohemia Apple, criticizes for the server Zdeněk Nekula, Minister of Agriculture News. I didn't see him here, by the way, and when he was here, I don't think he talked, he kept the beaver quiet. He criticizes this minister for not caring at all about the serious situation of domestic fruit farmers and even for refusing to communicate with them. For example, in order for domestic fruit farmers to be able to make a living, chains would have to pay them 25 CZK for one kilogram of apples, which roughly reflects their costs and a reasonable profit. The purchase price of apples, however, ranges from CZK 11 to 18 per kilogram. Now, just remember in your head for how much you buy them in those chains, sometimes it's up to $80 a kilo. Czech companies have completely lost their competitiveness here, the government ignores it and does not care about Czech fruit farmers at all, unlike the governments of neighbouring countries, which pay the difference between the purchase price and the cost price to fruit growers. Yeah, because they want to keep them, they want to keep the orchards, because agriculture is equal to the environment, and they're connected containers. The year 2022 was with 138 000 tons of apples for Czech setters a year of record crop. However, part of the production remained on trees due to high energy prices necessary for storage cooling, low wholesale prices and zero government aid. That's incredible. And again, the correctness and legitimacy of the key SPD proposal in this area - the introduction of a retail chain obligation to buy out a certain percentage of food that can be produced or grown in the Czech Republic, from domestic producers, which would also address the current critical situation of Czech fruit farmers, and not only them, because the production of Czech agriculture and Czech food professionals sold in supermarkets is slowly decreasing, one day they will not behave and grow anything at all, and we will import everything not from the European Union, but from third countries, they will be food and commodities, agricultural products of dubious quality, but their only advantage will be that they will be cheap and will cost little, which means that they will be touched by the chains. But back to food prices in general. There are only a few large-scale networks on our market, one hundred percent foreign-owned, and these stores do not have sufficient competition and can abuse this dominant position. It is also called significant market power. "I think the Antimonopoly Office should work more," says economist Štěpán Křeček. And the A.T.A. is working, and I agree with that. Other economists are even talking about the so-called Tactical Cartel of these chain trades acting in agreement. What does the Minister of Agriculture and Government do about it? Since I'm politely raised, I'll say nothing, even though it offers a much more spicy expression. And how do the surrounding states and European countries approach the problem of food escalation at all? In addition to having a much lower value added tax on food than the Czech Republic, where this tax is, on the contrary, the highest in Europe, whereas in all neighbouring countries it is significantly lower and in Poland or Croatia it is even zero for some basic foods, other important steps are being taken. We also see that many Čech, including our new president, go shopping in Poland. That's support! For example, French Finance Minister Bruno Le Maire agreed a few days ago with the country's leading supermarket chain on a mechanism to help consumers cope with the rise in food prices. They agreed to offer the lowest possible prices for a set of selected goods for a period of three months. And it's not a blowjob, for example, reported by a renowned agency called Reuters. The Minister said that the volume of these discounts would be hundreds of millions of euros, and in June government officials and chains would re-examine the situation. This is an approach worthy of strong and responsible governments acting in the interests of citizens. There isn't one right now. Carrefour subsequently stated that it would offer 200 items at low prices which would cost less than 2 euro between 15 March and 15 June. The Casino Competitive Chain announced that it would offer at a low price of 500 items that would cost less than 1 euro in the same period. And this, please, the annual inflation rate in France in February was 7.2 percent. Compare this with our data, where we have 20% inflation and food prices for some, as we have said, are higher than 50, perhaps even 70 percent. That the government's dealings with chain owners would be more than appropriate in the Czech Republic is also illustrated by a quote from President Jan Doležal's Agrarian Chamber: "Agriculturals do not determine food prices on counters of shops and have limited influence on prices for which they sell their products themselves. Therefore, we clearly reject the fact that Czech growers and breeders would make food more expensive for Czech customers, and that is something that needs to be clearly said here. In addition to the prices of primary agricultural producers, the costs and the premium of processors, transport costs, storage costs, and in particular the costs and additional costs of large shops are reflected therein.' End of quote. And, of course, in the short term, they are the most significant cause of rising prices for some foods, typically vegetables or bread, astronomical energy prices, and insufficient, too high government price ceilings. Despite all this, apparently the cardinal problem is what I was just talking about. And I'll give room to other speakers, so thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-059-01-000-000.u7	Thank you, too, Mr President. I will now ask Mrs Klára Dostálová with priority right and then Mr Michal Kučera will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-059-01-000-000.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that calling an emergency meeting today is really very important, and I will believe that it will be able to include and discuss it in a proper regular time, which means that the agenda for this meeting will be approved. As an YES club, we have put a lot of work into analyzing individual commodities, they are very interesting numbers, and it should certainly be discussed more in the general debate so that we can look at it. We need to respond to what is happening, because the Czech Republic is once again the top within the European Union, unfortunately the unflattering top, because within the 27 countries of the European Union, the Czech Republic is in the sixth place of the highest increase in food. Prices increased by 27 per cent between December 2021 and December 2022. The government underestimated the situation with inflation and the rise in food prices, did not act on time with regard to energy prices and did not take advantage of the possibility of slowing inflation at least by temporarily reducing VAT on food. It is probably a day two when we have all heard in the media that France is also taking these steps to, of course, make food cheaper for its citizens. [[16.40 hours]] Another important point is that the highest VAT on food in the Czech Republic. When food prices rise due to higher VAT, prices rise faster than in other countries. For example, Germany has 7 per cent VAT per food, Poland normally has 5 per cent, but VAT has been temporarily reduced to zero. It is evident that prices have increased slower in these countries than in the Czech Republic. The government of Petr Fiala could at least temporarily reduce VAT to basic foods, as we suggested. Countries whose governments were in time to address the problem of rising energy prices and at the same time applying lower VAT to food have seen lower food prices. In some cases, food prices are increased by trade-chain behaviour that exploit imbalances or market panics and increase margins. This is an example especially for sugar and eggs. So what is the current development in food prices in the Czech Republic? The Agrarian Chamber initiated the Schwarz and Rewe chains on the UOHS, unfair commercial practices that are prohibited by the Act on significant market power. The competition authority has declared that it will sectorally monitor the margins and profitability of all three Articles: a farmer-food trader on three commodities, and that will be in particular sugar, oil, butter, probably a fourth commodity, and that is poultrymeat. In all of this we perceive in the media space the screams of some, such as Mr Prouza, that the biggest profits are made by large farmers, or that in the Czech Republic there are so great prices for farmers and foodmakers, because they have the significant market power and influence the price. So let me really just have a few arguments over these messages. Farmers do not set a price, they sell at prices that are determined by the European exchange or declared prices on the main markets, and that is mostly Germany for us. This can be demonstrated by comparing sales prices within the European Union for many commodities, where we almost always belong to half of the European Union with a lower selling price. There's really enough groundwork for that. In 2022, farmers have a very good economic result for most commodities, where they are not, I repeat, dependent on trade chains, but on European prices, and this is because the costs they purchased before the price increase caused by the war in Ukraine and they sold the harvest at higher prices after that. But this will be reversed in 2023, when the costs were purchased at high prices, but commodity sales prices are falling significantly. There is another situation for commodities where prices for farmers run the chain of trade - fruits, vegetables, potatoes, pork and poultrymeat. Here the year 2022 was mostly loss-making and there is a further decrease in production. In addition to a few multinational companies of global food professionals, Czech food professionals do not have significant market power to influence price. The biggest ones have about 30% of the market in the Czech Republic, but business chains have the opportunity to buy from other countries within the European Union. By contrast, the largest chain of trade is concentrated on a few owners and provides more than 70 percent of the retail market. For example, the largest group Schwarz, where Lidl or Kaufland belongs, according to the published reports for 2021, had a turnover of CZK 136 billion and a profit of 9 billion, and their representative criticizes the profits of the entire agriculture, which is 20 billion, where there are 30,000 business entities. Numbers from the Czech Statistical Office, which presented the Ministry of Agriculture, but also other media, can be demonstrated by comparing the prices of farmers and processors and shops, as margins grew with traders and how disproportionately large it is. For example, for eggs sales from farmers in January 2022 for CZK 1.94, in December 2022 for CZK 3.29. Sales in stores - January 2022 CZK 2.94, i.e. a margin of CZK 1 and in December 2022 CZK 5.1, i.e. a margin of CZK 1.81. An example of a disproportionate margin is also for apples. The sales price from farmers, including crates, is CZK 12.20 per kilo and CZK 31.10 per kilo for the trade, while the growers would have sufficient CZK 4 higher price to continue, because this is how the trees are pulled out and the sets are cancelled. Comparison of profits for sales in three vertical articles is not correct, because according to economic rules, the most complex production, such as primary agricultural production, should be the largest in percentage terms, then slightly lower in processing and the lowest in trade. This also corresponds to the comparison of profit to capital and costs. It is therefore legitimate to ask why self-sufficiency in the Czech Republic is reduced in commodities that trade chains and do not follow the exchange price. There are two reasons. First, farmers in the Czech Republic take lower subsidies than the official ones from the European Union, then, of course, there are some national regional and tax advantages. There goes the sale of surpluses from other countries into our chains, where they sell most of the production in their own country at an affordable price, but the surplus, mostly with poorer quality, sells at a very low price. This unrealistic price is demanded by the chains of our farmers and foodmakers. This cannot be endured for long, the farmer stops production and passes on to simpler plant production, production with greater profitability or only to the maintenance of the landscape. So I would like to conclude - because I hope that we will actually open this debate and that we will be able to do a more detailed analysis - what the Government of the Czech Republic should do to really compare ourselves a little bit with the more advanced EU countries and not be in the unflattering sixth place. Firstly, it should appeal to trade chains in order to reduce margins to normal levels in the western countries of the EU. Secondly, it should strongly require compliance with the law on significant market power and the Price Act. Thirdly, it should reduce VAT on food to a level similar to that in other EU countries. Fourthly, reduce price ceilings to electricity and gas to levels that apply, for example, to our neighbors. The Ministry of Agriculture's policy should aim for maximum self-sufficiency in basic food, that is to move part of the support to motivate farmers to produce food, not only once a year to mulch grass. A typical example is the redistributive payment, the payment for the first hectares, which is the highest in the Czech Republic at 23 percent, with the average of the European Union being 13 percent. I think that's how we could argue here. I have the flour, milk, eggs, potatoes, sugar, poultry meat, pork, apples and so on. It's a pretty large file, and it would probably be worth analyzing the individual data. I will, of course, be done with this speech before the programme is approved, and I will hope that the programme will be approved and that we can continue this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-059-01-000-000.u9	Thank you, Madame. So now Vice-President of TOP 09 Michal Kučera with priority rights. I'm just saying that at around 16.50 hours, I should vote either on interruptions or on how we continue to do so. Anyway, your priority right, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-059-01-000-000.u10	Hello, thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, since I don't have a lot of time to perform, I would only react briefly to my previous speakers. Firstly, I would like to say that the agricultural committee will act on food prices at its next meeting. If you have any data, please come with them, we can discuss them. I don't think there's much point in talking like your chairman says in the House. So if you really want to solve this problem, you have a competent representative in the agricultural committee, and I say this with all due respect, let them come up with these data, with these proposals, and let's deal with it, unless the proposals are based on what I've heard here to this point: spend more public money, spend more public money, and spend more public money as a bonus, because we've already distributed the public money to social services, to education, to health insurance, to pensions. I don't think we can give out any more of what we really can, because if you count what you've already given out here in the last month, you've given out a few annual budgets for this country. [[16.50 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, as I said, the agricultural committee will deal with this subject and deal with it in all seriousness. There is a solution - yes, there are solutions, but the solutions are not simple. It's certainly not that the money just comes from public budgets. It was Mr. former Minister Havlíček who frightened us all here about how the Czech Republic would end, because there will be no fuel, no gas, no electricity, and if it is, it will be so expensive that all businesses would go bankrupt. It turned out that it wasn't actually true that fuel had been cheaper first, that there were actually enough of them and eventually returned to the original price. And now the same thing begins to happen with energy prices, she suddenly starts to drop electrical energy, starts to drop gas prices and gradually everything goes back to normal without, of course, listening to former Minister Havlíček - without pouring in the huge money he gave us at the time. I said there are a number of steps that must take place at the same time. I have already announced several times that I have dealt with the President of the Antimonopoly Office in this matter in order to take action, and he is actually conducting the investigation. It conducts investigations on several commodities in such a way as to determine whether there is abuse of the dominant position of sellers or companies that might abuse the very significant market power. We have also amended last year's law on significant market power - I thank my colleagues from the agricultural committee once again that we have managed to find a reasonable compromise, and this is precisely what I believe to be an effective amendment to approve and give the Antimonopoly Office a tool to actually act on this issue. But, of course, I must point out that the Antimonopoly Office itself can't do it, we just have to change our shopping behaviour - just do it in January or February isn't quite standard. And if anyone wants to do anything in January or February, they'll just pay more for it. It's seasonal food, it's growing in some period that is definitely not January or February, which I hope Ex-minister Havlíček knows. And of course, let's not forget that the public money you want to put in all the systems I've named here isn't going to save everything either. If businesses do not work with efficient production, if they do not optimize costs, they simply will not be able to compete. Do I have a little more time? I don't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-059-01-000-000.u11	I would need to put to the vote either on the suspension of the meeting or whether we will approve the programme.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-059-01-000-000.u12	Okay, thank you. I'm going to interrupt my interview at the moment. I would like to call once again on all those who are really interested in taking part in the resolution of high food prices, please take part in the agricultural committee, or address their colleagues, their representatives in the agricultural committee, and this is the platform where we can actually act on this matter on a business basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-059-01-000-000.u13	Thank you. Zagongujím, I'll call in colleagues and colleagues from the lobby. I don't see any prior rights applications. We will therefore now vote on the whole proposal for the 59th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. I hear an application for check-out. I'll check you out and ask you to sign up with your cards again. I will wait for the order, the number of Members and Members to settle. I am opening the vote on the whole proposal for the 59th meeting, as presented in writing. Who's in? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 2, 160 Members and Members registered, for 75, against 13. The motion was denied. The agenda of the meeting has not been approved, so I conclude the discussion of this point. And I, honourable Members, remind you that the 60th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies will begin in about seven minutes. Thank you.
