ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-005-004.u1	4. Government bill amending Act No. 61/1988 Coll., on Mining Activities, Explosives and the State Mining Administration, as amended /house print 297/ - second reading The Minister of Industry and Trade, Jozef Síkela, will state the draft bill submitted by the Government. Please, Minister, take the floor. You have your word. It's the House press...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-005-004.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, once again we are here to discuss the proposal for an amendment to the Act on Mining Activities, Explosives and the State Mining Administration, which was prepared by the Czech Mining Authority as the central body of the Czech State Administration for Explosives. In the Chamber of Deputies, the bill is presented by the Ministry of Industry and Trade in carrying out the coordinating function of this Ministry in relation to the Czech Mining Authority. The main objective of the bill is to improve the existing legislation, eliminate its shortcomings identified in practice, reduce the administrative burden on entrepreneurs and save the funds spent from the state budget on the operation of the State Mining Administration. To this end, it is proposed, firstly, to link the information systems of the institutions. The Customs Administration of the Czech Republic and the Czech Mining Authority and thus remove the obligation of entrepreneurs to report some identical data to both the Customs Administration and the Czech Mining Authority, second, to change the organizational arrangement of the State Mining Administration consisting of the abolition of the District Mining Office for the regions of Liberec and Vysočina, and to transfer its existing competence to the District Mining Office for the territories of the regions of Královéhradecký and Pardubický - this amendment will be subsequently introduced after adoption of the draft law into the Decree on the Headquarters of District Mining Offices, thirdly pre-empting the method of verifying the integrity and medical capacity of persons dealing with explosives, fourthly establishing an institute of the so-called silent consent of the authorities concerned and intelligence services in proceedings for the authorisation of export, import and transit of explosives, fifthly, the obligation of the competent Mining Authority to inform the Department of the Police of the Czech Republic, in whose territory of responsibility they are to carry out the destruction work, ensuring a flexible exchange of information between the Mining Authority and the Police of the Czech Republic. The material was only discussed in the Economic Committee, which was also set up as a guarantee committee. The Committee did not apply any amendments to the proposal and, in its resolution, recommended that it be discussed and approved as amended by the Government proposal. Of course, I am ready to discuss any amendments that will be read today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-005-004.u3	Thank you, Minister. Please take the floor at the news desk. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 297/1 and 2. I ask that the rapporteur of the Economic Committee, Mr Michael Rataj, take the floor, inform us of the committee's discussion of the proposal and justify any amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-005-004.u4	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear colleagues, honourable Members of the Government, allow me to introduce you to the resolution of the Committee on Economic Affairs No 131 of 16 March 2023 on the Government Bill amending Act No 13 of 16 March 2023. 61/1988 Coll., on Mining Activities, Explosives and the State Mining Administration, as amended. The resolution reads: "The Economic Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after hearing the opening words of the President of the Czech Mining Authority Martin Šternberk, the report by Mr Michael Rataj and after a general and detailed debate I. recommends that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic discuss and approve the Chamber's press 297, as amended by the Government Bill; II. empowers the Committee's rapporteur, in cooperation with the draftsman and legislative department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, to make legislative technical amendments which do not affect the substance of the proposed law; III. Instructs the Committee rapporteur to present a report at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on the results of the discussion of this draft law in the Economic Committee; IV. Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic." In a detailed debate, I would then like to propose that the guarantee committee no longer address the draft law, because no amendments or other proposals have been tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-005-004.u5	Thank you, too, rapporteur. Please take the floor at the news desk. I am opening a general debate to which Mr Marek Novák is registered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-005-004.u6	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will make a very brief comment on the amendment, where we have no amendment tabled. There are about five changes, when one of the eight district mining offices is proposed to be abolished, actually for the regions of Liberec and Vysočina based in Liberec. For us, it is definitely effective and on the other hand, it is also saving. It is also proposed to remove administrative barriers to the authorisation of exports of explosives. Again within the administration and process of major acceleration, so for us 100% yes. In the procedures for applications for export, import and transit authorisation, it is proposed to establish a silent consent institute. Here we also agree. In order to more effectively share information about issued permits between the Czech Mining Authority and the Customs authorities, it was proposed to change, automate the form through the relevant information systems, so further acceleration of the process, and of course also a cheaper one. Subsequently, it is proposed to remove barriers for effective information cooperation with the Czech Police on large-scale tearing works, which is also important in the safety of our citizens, and further modernizes the demonstration of conditions for the handling of explosives, especially the integrity of natural persons to check primarily through criminal records and similar records. Process acceleration again, process cheapening. Therefore, I can say that we will support the guarantee committee no longer have to deal with the law before the third reading, so the process of adopting this law has been accelerated. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-005-004.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I wonder if anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate? This is not the case, I am ending the general debate. I wonder if there's an interest in final words? The Minister is not interested, nor is the rapporteur. There was no proposal that we should vote on in the general debate, so I am ending the general debate. I am opening a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. D in detail, Mr Rataj is reporting. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-005-004.u8	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I'll take the liberty of making a motion. Since no amendments or other proposals have been tabled, it is unnecessary for the guarantee committee to adopt opinions on the amendments and therefore on the basis of § 94a para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, I propose that the guarantee committee no longer deal with the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-18-ps2021-063-03-005-004.u9	Yes, thank you. I wonder if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate? This is not the case, so I am ending the debate in detail. I wonder if there's an interest in final words? The Minister is not interested, nor is the rapporteur interested in the final word. We would therefore now proceed to the vote on Mr Rataj's proposal so that the guarantee committee does not deal with the bill. I'll rejoin and call my colleagues. Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 87, 163 Members and Members voted in favour of 110, versus 3. The proposal was adopted and we agreed that the guarantee committee would not deal with the bill. I conclude the second reading of this proposal, thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur and we conclude the discussion of paragraph 4. Now I'm opening point number
