ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-001-001.u1	1. The draft law amending Act No. 134/2016 Coll., on Public Procurement, as amended /German press 249/8/ - returned to the Senate The Senate returned the bill with amendments, and his resolution was delivered as House press 249/9. Information on the amendments has been distributed to you in your mail. Welcome here between us... Yes, Mr. Ambassador, to the vote? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-001-001.u2	I'm sorry, I've been applying for a while. I have a "for" vote in 108, and I've been stalling, just for the tape screen. I'm not questioning the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-001-001.u3	Yes, thank you, it will be recorded for the log, so you do not question the vote. I welcome Senator Josef Bazala here. That's right, okay? Other senators who are in variants are not present. I ask that the Vice-President of the Government for Digitisation and Minister for Regional Development Ivan Bartoš speak for the plaintiffs on the Senate resolution and the amendments tabled. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-001-001.u4	Madam President, honourable Members, Mr Senator, the proposal for an amendment to the Public Procurement Act, which was approved by the Chamber of Deputies on 23 March and subsequently forwarded to the Senate, was not approved by the Senate in a version forwarded from the Chamber of Deputies, but was returned to the Chamber of Deputies for further discussion as amended by the amendments adopted on 10 May to the Senate plenary. The proposal for amendment is a response to the reasoned opinion of the European Commission in the lack of transposition of certain rules...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-001-001.u5	Minister, I am very sorry to interrupt you... [[Minister Bartoš: Yes, it's a bit noisy here.]] Yes, I noticed that too. So, colleagues, colleagues, please move your calls to the foyer so that the minister can continue in a dignified environment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-001-001.u6	So I'm just gonna go back to the previous sentence. The amendment that is coming is a response to the reasoned opinion of the European Commission on the lack of transposition of certain rules laid down in the procurement directives, in particular with regard to the ongoing procedure for infringement, it is therefore necessary for the amendment to take effect as soon as possible. The amendment is generally considered necessary and the professional public in the field of public procurement is expected and supported. In view of the fact that the content of the amendment itself has already been thoroughly discussed by the Chamber of Deputies, we have even returned to the second reading from the third reading, which was subsequently repeated, I will focus in my introductory words on amendments which have been discussed and subsequently adopted by the Senate. Probably the first thing, and we discussed it in the discussion of the law in the House, but it did not sign into the House's material, is the proposed increase in the limits for small-scale public contracts, from the existing CZK 2 million without VAT for supplies of services and from CZK 6 million for construction works on new levels or new limits, i.e. 3 and 9 million. I have also had the opportunity to discuss this matter in the various groups, I have also been present in the Senate, and I also perceive the fact that, as a result of inflation and overall price increases, it is necessary to look at how these limits are set, but I think, and this is how I acted within the Senate, that it is not only necessary to take this step within the amendment. I have repeated the arguments and stressed in this amendment, I have repeated the arguments in the Senate plenary, when I should have chosen one of the arguments, for example, if we had raised these limits purely in this way, it is indeed within one of the highest limits for small-scale contracts, indeed at record level. But that's not the only argument. We talked about history, setting limits, as originally established, those limits, and I argued in this debate also by analysing from the previous year, which we regularly submit as the Ministry of Regional Development, and this is the total volume of investments that are made through small-scale contracts and subliminal contracts, where it is over 500 billion, and by increasing, without any increase in, for example, control or transparency, we would also go according to our calculations to about 700 billion crowns, which would either be invested in this way. I can assure you, and I have also dealt with coalition partners, but also with opposition representatives, that we are also dealing with this issue from, for example, the area of reservations that anti-corruption organisations have in this direction. Setting limits is a system issue. In my opinion, it should prevent, we already have some of the data in the last year's report, analysis, but also how the necessary data is published in individual locations of ammunition. [[16.00 hours]] I'm not going to drag this part out, I was saying in the debate that we want to open this issue. The law is likely to be amended during this parliamentary term due to the need for European implementation or changes. I would like to come up with a system procedure where we can work with increasing limits, as is also proposed, but we should also say B - really set rules that will contribute to transparency, but also simplify the process itself. I would like to address the question of limits with the following amendment, at the moment I would not consider them as part of the amendment for the reasons I mentioned. In the Senate, I acted consistently in this regard, I listened to the senators' views and I understand the attitude from the point of view of drawing resources or, respectively, the steps to be taken at the level of municipalities and regions. However, for me, the position on this amendment was not recommended. The other Senate proposed change concerns a conflict of interest, which was also open during the debate in the House, and which was also responded by the amendments made by colleague Jakub Michálek. The proposal was subsequently withdrawn because there was insufficient support in the House to discuss the law in this form. The Senate approved regulation, which is transferred to the Act on Public Procurement by the Act on Conflict of Interest, is based on the amendment by Jakub Michálek and subsequently regulates it. I would not go completely into the detail of the amendment, however, even in this matter we have a law that addresses conflicts of interest, where things such as registering real owners are defined, and from the logic of the matter, I think that at the moment when the contracting authority decides, it should have a clear, legally based guide on how it goes so that it can exclude suppliers to whom the application of conflicts of interest applies, possibly with a minimum administrative intensity. I supported this proposal in the Senate when, of course, I put several aspects on a scale. The first is the need to have this law discussed and approved for reasons of non-compliance with the European Commission's legislative obligations and reservations on inadequate implementation, which I think is an engine that drives legislation forward. In my opinion, a substantively correct amendment, which concerns the application of rules from conflict of interest to legislation, but also the leap of limits, a relatively significant leap of limits, which, as I mentioned, also has secondary implications. I would recommend for myself, and in this way, I am actually in that direction, to keep the House version at the moment, which in the end was the broad agreement with - as I have said - the subject, and it is not what I have promised so far, I have always added as a minister, even in legislative matters, it is not some idle promise, but to look at the limits in relation to the rules that accompany them, in the further amendment of the Public Procurement Act. The last changes are then from the Senate or there are four legislative technical modifications -- they are modifications that contain minor technical deficiencies. They may be considered appropriate if they are not corrected. However, this does not cause any major problems and will be eliminated by interpretation. The translation, I don't want to say - I think it's trivial. So much for me a brief word in the introduction. I am prepared to respond to any questions and comments, whether from anyone's diaper. Thank you for the opening statement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-001-001.u7	Thank you, Minister. Now I would ask Senator Josef Bazala to take the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-001-001.u8	Thank you. Hello. Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Members, colleagues from the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic have sent me to you in the Chamber of Deputies to justify the Senate's return to the bill on public procurement. The Senate discussed this bill at its 11th meeting on 10 May 2023 and, under resolution 166, agreed to return the bill to the Chamber of Deputies, as amended by the amendments adopted. The amendments are three. The first amendment concerns an increase in the limits for small-scale contracts. It has responded to the increase in the prices of construction works and services in recent years. The limit for small-scale public procurement was last amended by Act No. 341/2013 Sb., which amended the original Act on Public Procurement of 2006 and set a limit for small-scale public contracts with effect from 1 January 2014, for the supply of services to CZK 2 million without VAT and for construction works to CZK 6 million without VAT. These limits were stricter than European legislation. In the last more than nine years, prices have increased significantly, resulting in the effects of the law being much more strict and requiring contracting entities to issue a contract for a much larger proportion of the purchase of services and works. This carries a higher administrative burden and extends the implementation of public purchases, causing many problems for contracting entities. Taking into account high inflation and price growth, this amendment provides a simple and flexible solution to simplify government and local government without the transparency of public funds being affected. This amendment was tabled with great support from the Association of Regions, the Union of Towns and Municipalities and the Association of Local Authorities. 57 out of 75 Senators and Senators present have voted in favour of the amendment across the political spectrum, which is an example of his need. The second amendment addresses the issue of moving the obligation to exclude a tenderer who would be a public official, within the meaning of the Act on Conflict of Interest and the Act on Public Procurement, makes it impossible or significantly difficult to apply the prohibition under Section 4b of the Act on Conflict of Interest in Practice. At the same time, in the context of the proportionality of the proposed conflict of interest resolution, it limits the scope of the contracting authorities to which the current provisions of Section 4b of the Conflict Act affect. Given the position of a member of the government or of the head of another central administrative office and the extent of its executive power, the current rule will apply only to the public authorities, which are mainly financed by the Czech Republic, the Czech National Bank, the Czech National Bank, and other legal entities. It may exercise decisive influence or appoint or elect more than half of its statutory or supervisory authority members. The new proposed provision will not affect, in particular, local authorities and their contribution organisations, where the senior executive does not normally exercise its powers directly. 72 out of 75 Senators and Senators present voted in favour of this amendment with the support of the petitioner, the Ministry of Regional Development. The third amendment corrects legislative technical defects in the bill, terminology inaccuracies and references to the repealed legislation. The proposed changes were consulted with the Ministry of Regional Development. The Ministry of Regional Development has expressed a positive opinion on the proposal. 69 out of 74 Senators and Senators present voted in favour of this amendment with the support of the Ministry of Regional Development. I politely ask you, on behalf of the representatives of the Upper Chamber, to support the text referred to by the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-001-001.u9	Thank you, Senator. I am now asking whether, on the one hand, the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Mr Haas, wants to comment on the amendments tabled from the Senate? [[Yes.]] Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-001-001.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the floor. Of course, as rapporteur, I want to take advantage of the opportunity to sum up the situation in which we are, and in some way as rapporteur, to describe the options, the aspects of the decision before us. We passed the law at repeated third reading in the Chamber of Deputies on 24 March - and I stress this, it is important for that context - a cross-cutting political agreement between the coalition and the opposition in the Chamber of Deputies, when, until then, the course of the legislative process was not completely comfortable, so in my opinion, even considering that the amendment is very desirable both from the point of view of practice and from the point of view of correcting some errors in the implementation of the European rules in the Czech rule of law, in the system of public procurement, so undoubtedly the cross-cutting political agreement, which before repeated third reading 24. 3. it has fallen and allowed the approval of the bill by the Chamber of Deputies, so I want to emphasise this context. The Senate discussed the proposal on 10. 5. and returned it to the House with the proposed amendments. The resolution of the Senate, annexed to which amendments are adopted in the Senate, has been circulated to us by Members 11. 5. as House press 249/9. I will stress the two key amendments, like my previous speakers, from the perspective of me as rapporteur. An amendment to increase the limits for small-scale public procurement: I dare say, even if it is my estimate, of course private, that most Members in this hall, regardless of whether we are operating or not with contracting authorities, would very much welcome this amendment, if it were in itself, because it is undoubtedly aimed at reducing the bureaucratic burden on contracting entities, especially those smaller in our country. A very true argument for considering an increase in the limits for small-scale public contracts, which need not be awarded in the procurement procedure and for which only compliance with the basic principles on which the Act on Public Procurement is based is sufficient, was that the limits for small-scale public contracts did not change in any way during the period of application of the existing law. We all know inflation in this country, the increase in prices of individual public contracts or services, the supply of works that fall under the public procurement regime, we all probably know. So these are undoubtedly arguments, whether the reduction of bureaucratic burdens or the reflection of economic, especially inflation price developments in our country. These would be arguments in support of this amendment. The second amendment adopted by the Senate - now I really aim at the two territorial ones, I look away from it, let's say, legislatively technical - is an amendment that addresses the real problem of the Czech rule of law, the current contradiction between the law on public procurement and the law on conflict of interest. Who you are in the field of public procurement, you know that under the Public Procurement Act, see Section 48 para. In the present case, under the current wording of the law, a tenderer or tenderer may be excluded only for the reasons laid down by the Public Procurement Act. With this provision, Section 48 (2) (a) is replaced by the following: It does not correspond to the public procurement act. Unfortunately, such things happen in the legal order of the Czech Republic. Section 4b of the Conflict of Interest Act, which actually allows exclusion, in simple terms, of the parties to the procurement procedures led by a public official, a member of the government or central government bodies. This disproportion between the Public Procurement Act and the Conflict of Interest Act should have been resolved during the discussion of the draft law in the House of Ambition by Jakub Michálek, through Madam President. In the end, however, this amendment could not have been adopted by the Chamber of Deputies when considering the important balance bowl between the political passability of the law - even with this one we all have to work with - so on this mission the scales between the political passability of the law and, say, the correction of the gap here or here the conflict in the Czech legal order. I understand - and I say this very seriously - and I am not surprised, in fact, to my fellow senators from the second chamber of the Czech Parliament, that they wanted to correct this undoubtedly existing contradiction in the Czech legal order. I'm going to say, they've been very competent about the contradiction. The proposal - not only the rapporteur but also the lawyer will speak from me now - is legally flawless in my opinion. The proposal cannot be ruled out legally. However, as the House, in our decision-making today, when I say it, we can - and now I will say it in quotation marks and in human terms - either take the bill as a whole, as amended by all the amendments to the Senate, or stick to the House version. In fact, we are faced with the same dilemma, which we have dealt with here in the House in March of this year even at two third readings, that is, before the dilemma, whether to resort to factually and legally correct Senate amendments, or to prioritize the real way through the entire bill as a whole through the legislative process. I confess that for me, the passability of the bill is more important in a bowl of scales, especially for two reasons. The bill is far from being about these two things that are probably resonating in the debate today - most of us may have mentioned them in the media, at our press conferences - so the bill is much more complex. When I presented him as rapporteur after Vice-President Dostálová, when I took over the news, again through Madam President, I stressed two aspects. First, the law really corrects some of the shortcomings of European implementation in the Czech legal order, but it is actually a very good comprehensive amendment to the Public Procurement Act, as amendments should come in such a good legal term plus minus five years after the Act has become effective. This means, within five years, the reflection of practice as it should be, through the Ministry, through consultation with all stakeholders, which this amendment has indeed been prepared in cooperation with all stakeholders from the Ministry of Regional Development. This is how a comprehensive amendment of laws should take place. So I'm just pointing out that our decision-making today is really about whether we will allow the law as a whole to pass with the two important aspects that I have just mentioned. Correction of implementation of European regulations and correct and very numerous reflections, simplification for both contracting entities and candidates, elimination of some administrative and bureaucratic burdens, and so on and so on. The novel is really complex. So the question is whether we are going to move this law in the legislative process to its finality of the President of the Republic, or whether, and we are all living in political reality, we are going to put ourselves at risk - and I can legitimately understand the opposition's position, even though I disagree with it - we are going to put ourselves at risk that the bill might not pass because of, say, the opposition's political opposition. [[16.20 hours]] So that's our decision tonight. I wanted to sum it up for you as humanely as possible. I have a clear decision for myself, but I don't want to mention that here anymore, because I would probably have exceeded my role as law correspondent. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-001-001.u11	Thank you. I am now asking whether he wants to comment on the amendments tabled by the Senate also the rapporteur of the Defence Committee, Mr Josef Flek. Would the Member like to make a statement? He doesn't want to express himself. Thank you. Before I open the debate, I have two announcements: Mrs Golasowská cancels her apology from 15.35 and Mr Zlínský cancels his apology from 16.10. So I am now opening up a debate and asking if anyone is joining the debate? Member Jiří Carbol. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-001-001.u12	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, gentlemen, Ministers, Senator, allow me to follow up on the words of my fellow rapporteur, Mr Haas, who gave a very detailed presentation of the bill as it was returned from the Senate. I'd like to do the first part first. This means the Senate proposal contains, in this section, an increase in the limit of small-scale contracts to 3 million for supplies or services and 9 million for works. However, small-scale public contracts do not have the necessary control mechanism, there are no national rules. At present, almost half of the volume of all public contracts is awarded under these small contracts. In case of an increase in limits, one quarter of all public contracts will be transferred to small contracts, i.e. outside the regime of the law, and clearly most of all public contracts awarded in the Czech Republic would be entered into this regime. The increase in the limits for your vision means that of over 500 billion in small-scale contracts, we would now reach CZK 700 billion a year. An unconceptional increase without any analysis, the previous debate in the Chamber of Deputies, poses a significant risk of misuse of these public funds. According to the communication from the Ministry of Regional Development, as Minister Bartoš has said about this, the substantive intention of the amendment to the Public Procurement Act will be prepared by the end of the year, which will focus on this increase in the limit, the adjustment of the climate management and the setting of the national control mechanism. This subject needs to be dealt with comprehensively and without discussion in the Chamber of Deputies, two figures cannot be changed. Of course, we would like to support the second major change proposed by the Senate in the amendment proposal, which is to strengthen the enforcement of the rules on conflict of interest. Although I greatly appreciate the Senate, the work of the senators, my fellow Senator Bazala, given the fact that the amendment returned to the Senate must be voted on as a whole, we cannot actively support the Senate version as a KDU-ČSL club and, on the basis of all this information, we have decided to support the original House version, with the fact that we are ready to participate in the work on the preparation of a comprehensive amendment to the Public Procurement Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-001-001.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I wonder if anyone else is reporting for the debate? If no one reports, I am done with the debate. I'm asking for final words. Is there interest in final words? Is the senator interested in the final word? Yes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-001-001.u14	Madam President, my dear Members, I would like to say that we have been very honest in the Senate debate on these amendments. Of course, you know very well the composition of the Senate, which is composed primarily of mayors and mayors. We also discussed abuse of powers in quotation marks and so on and so on. We came from a letter from the Association of Regions, we based on the request of the Union of Towns and Municipalities, and we also based on the request of the Association of Local Authorities. They all support these Senate proposals, and I will regret it if this Senate proposal does not pass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-001-001.u15	Thank you, Senator. Do I question the final words of the Minister, the rapporteur? Not interested. We shall therefore proceed to the vote pursuant to Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. I will zagongovat and make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 134/2016 Coll., on Public Procurement, as amended, pursuant to the House Press 249/8, as approved by the Senate, pursuant to the House Press 249/9.' Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 116, 173 Members and Members signed in, for 22, against 61. The motion was denied. I note that we have not adopted the bill as approved by the Senate. We will therefore now vote again, in accordance with Article 97 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5 Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. The agreement of an absolute majority of all Members, namely 101 Members, is needed in order to adopt this resolution. I'll ask you to set the number of votes you need. We're set. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies approves the bill amending Act No. 134/2016 Coll., on Public Procurement, as amended, as amended, in which it was forwarded to the Senate, according to the House's Press 249/8.' Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 117, 175 Members and Members registered, for 162, against no one. The motion was accepted. I state that we have adopted the bill. I thank the Senator, the Minister and the rapporteur, and I conclude on this point. And now I'm opening point number
