ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-004-002.u1	2. Government bill amending Act No. 143/2001 Coll., on the Protection of Competition and on the Amendment of Certain Acts (Act on the Protection of Competition), as amended, and Act No. 273/1996 Coll., on the competence of the Office for the Protection of Competition, as amended /German press 283/ - Second reading Under the authority of the Government, Prime Minister Petr Fiala will state the bill, but I see that the Minister of Finance will represent him, and I will ask you, Minister, to take the floor and state the bill. Please, you have the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, especially in the right side of the hall, please keep it down. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-004-002.u2	Thank you for the floor. I'll raise my voice so that I can overcome the noise. On behalf of the Prime Minister, I will briefly present this amendment at second reading. The main reason for submission is the transposition of Directive 2019/1 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2018. We should have already been implemented by 4 February 2021, so the transposition period has passed deep in the last parliamentary term. When you look at the content of this amendment, the aim of the directive that we transpose is that national competition authorities, in our case, the competition authority, are able to take decisions independently so that they have sufficient resources, whether human, financial or technical, to have technical tools to stop the infringement and impose sanctions. I would like to thank the Economic Committee, which discussed this at its meeting on 17 March 2023 and recommended, first, the approval of some amendments, so today these are the amendments of the Economic Committee, and recommended to the Chamber of Deputies that this bill be approved at third reading, including the recommended amendments approved by the Economic Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-004-002.u3	Thank you, too, Minister. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 283/1 and 283/2. I am asking that the rapporteur of the Economic Committee, Mr Jan Bauer, take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the proposal in the committee and justify any amendments. In this case, too, there has been a change, Mr Adamec will be represented by the rapporteur. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-004-002.u4	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, Minister, Madam Secretary, Ministers, colleagues, colleagues, I will be very brief. The Economic Committee discussed the draft law at the 25th meeting on 16 March 2023, and let me introduce you to the resolution adopted by the Economic Committee: "The Economic Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, after Jan the introductory words of the President of the Office for the Protection Petr Bauer, recommends Mr. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic shall discuss and approve the press number 283 as amended by the approved amendments." Please, if you don't mind, I won't read the amendments, it's a long reading, I don't want to keep you here. They're well-known. They're in your files. It also empowers the Committee's rapporteur, in cooperation with the draftsman and legislative department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, to make legislative technical adjustments in the draft law which have an impact on the substance of the proposed law. He instructs the Committee rapporteur on my behalf to present a report at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on the results of this draft law in the Economic Committee and instructs me to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. If I have registered, no other amendments have been tabled, apart from the amendments tabled by the Economic Committee, and I would like to point out here that I have noticed some noise regarding the amendments and some possible others, which have been revised towards the rapporteur, Mr Jan Bauer. I would like to remind you that, after a telephone conversation, Mr Jan Bauer has confirmed to me today that no further or other amendments will be tabled. So thank you for your attention, on my part, that's all for now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-004-002.u5	Thank you. I am opening a general debate in which I am registering one application, and I will ask Mrs Zuzana Ožanová to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-004-002.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Dear ministers, colleagues, colleagues, I will not repeat what I read at the first reading I had prepared. I will now just briefly comment on the bill. As the translator's representative said, this is mainly about implementation. Part of the bill is also some incorporation of partial knowledge from application practice. I will only elaborate slightly on the amendments approved by the Economic Committee, so I will supplement the rapporteur with my speech. As the rapporteur has already said, on 16 March of this year, the Committee on Economic Affairs recommended that two amendments be adopted, which are largely unrelated to implementation. This is the proposal of Mr Jan Bauer and the second proposal of Members Eva Decroix and Marek Benda. First of all, Jan Bauer's amendment. The proposal specifies the references to the European Union's rules and specifies the circle of delinquent conduct punishable by a ban on performance. The proposed regulation also explicitly deals with the category of performance in the form of public passenger transport services, since the performance in question does not constitute the award of a public contract within the meaning of the Public Procurement Act. The proposed regulation also aims to ensure that the punishment in the form of a ban on performance effectively affects a wider set of transactions than are covered by public budgets, but contains an exception reflecting situations in which an important public interest is given in order not to apply the imposed performance ban. It seems very logical to extend the prohibition on the exercise of another paid function or any other gainful activity, except for the management of own property and the activities of scientific, pedagogical, literary, publicist and artistic, set now only for the President, newly also for the Vice-Presidents. The proposal is conducted by an effort to strengthen independence not only by the President but also by the Vice-Presidents of the Offices. Now, on Eva Decroix and Marek Benda's amendment. The list of excluded parts from the inspection of the file on the records of telecommunications operations, information on telecommunications operations and records taken during the monitoring of persons and the case shall be added. The new proposed regulation allows the Authority to use records for the purpose of taking evidence into account the most important anticompetitive practices, i.e. telecommunications traffic records, telecommunications traffic data and surveillance records of persons and objects already provided by the law enforcement authority. The original transitional provision shall be supplemented by a rule on the possibility of using the recorded records in such a way that, in proceedings initiated after the entry into force of this Act, the records which have been issued in criminal proceedings may be used only after the date of application of this Act. Ladies and gentlemen, I support not only the draft law tabled, but also the amendments approved by the Economic Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-004-002.u7	Thank you, too, Madame. I'm asking if anyone else is reporting to the general debate? I don't see anyone like that. I am ending the general debate. I ask, do the Minister or the rapporteur want to take the final floor? [[No. No.]] It's not like that. I am opening a detailed debate. In this case, too, I recall that the amendments and other proposals in the detailed debate must be justified. This is the Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-004-002.u8	Thank you for the floor. As the President of the Economic Committee has already said, no further amendments have been made. There is general agreement on those discussed and adopted by the Economic Committee, so allow me to comply with § 94a para. 4 suggested that the guarantee committee no longer deal with this bill after second reading, because it was already dealt with before the second reading and no new amendment was made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-04-ps2021-063-01-004-002.u9	Thank you, I will then vote on this proposal. I wonder if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate? I see no one, in which case I conclude a detailed debate. I want to ask the Minister if he wants to take the final floor? Minister, do you want the final word or the rapporteur? [[No. No.]] It's not like that, okay. I'm going to unsubscribe you all first, registering your application for check-out. I'm gonna ask you to sign up with your cards again. Since, during the course of the detailed debate, a proposal has been made pursuant to § 94a para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure, in order that the guarantee committee no longer addresses the draft law, I shall put it to a vote. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 30, registered 119 Members and Members, for proposal 119, against no one. This proposal has been approved. I'm ending second reading of this proposal. I'm opening another point, and that's it.
