ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-03-ps2021-063-08-006-015.u1	15. Government draft law on management related to deep-sea radioactive waste storage /house printing 367/ - first reading Under the Government's authority, the proposal will be made by the Minister of Industry and Trade Jozef Síkela. I will now ask him to take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-03-ps2021-063-08-006-015.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, let me briefly present the Government's proposal for a law on procedures relating to deep-sea radioactive waste storage. I would like to start by saying that both I and the government are aware of the high sensitivity of this issue, especially towards the municipalities concerned, their leadership, headed by the mayors and the public from potential locations. I consider it symbolic, too, that the mayor and independent movement has nominated me to this government with the task of trying to reconcile relations in this context. I know communications haven't always been ideal in the past. I dare say that many of my predecessors were wondering how to move forward and find a match on this subject. We can't change the past, some ditches are dug up, but we can learn from it. If the moats cannot be filled, I offered the municipalities concerned at the end of last year at least to build bridges with these moats. Therefore, the priority is not only to find the most safe solution for disposal of high-activity waste, that is to say deep storage in the most suitable location, but also to ensure that all concerned have the right to exercise their vote, that all relevant arguments are carefully considered and that conflicting interests and values are affected. That's the only way we can get through this joint task. The draft law was developed in the first phase by a working group consisting of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the Administration of radioactive waste storage sites, the State Office for Nuclear Safety and the Ministry of Environment. The Chamber of Deputies is presented by the draft law by the Ministry of Trade Industry, under whose jurisdiction the security of radioactive waste management activities, which it carries out through the established organisational component of the State of SURAO under the atomic law. The political and social consensus on the adoption of specific legislation is documented both by the plans for the legislative activities of previous governments and from our programming declaration by the Government, or is the subject of debates at the level of representatives of Parliament or the regions concerned. The objective of the draft law is to comply with § 108 para. 4 atomic law, which presumes the existence of a special law governing respect for the interests of municipalities and their citizens in certain processes related to the search for a site for the storage of radioactive waste in underground areas, as well as the authorisation of the operation of a deep storage site itself. This does not mean, however, that the procedures for the deployment of the deep storage do not come out of the laws already. The beginnings of the draft law are material projects from 2020 or an unapproved substantive intention from 2017, the Supreme Administrative Court judicature and existing legislation, which generally describes individual procedures for the selection of the final site, its territorial protection and the operation of the nuclear facility. The draft law then introduces special procedures, if you want derogations, in case of storage under the legislation on geological works, the upper law and the atomic law. Among the special procedures, it is worth mentioning the rules governing oral proceedings directly in the municipalities concerned after a pre-established period or the establishment of participation by the municipality concerned in the procedure for establishing the protected territory. The proposal also sets out the process of selecting the location of the repository, including the right of municipalities to express their position, which will become one of the basis for the government's deliberations. The fundamental strengthening of the legitimacy of the selection of the final and backup location of the repository by the government is the conditional consent of the two chambers of Parliament. Last but not least, I would point out a strengthening of transparency and information to the public concerned by setting up a working group by involving the two chambers of Parliament. The design is inspired by culturally and geographically close countries such as Germany and France. The continuing requirement of municipalities to have absolute veto rights on the selection of a site for deep storage in the form of Scandinavian countries is unrealistic in the conditions of the Czech Republic and no other construction, in addition to such public interest, has a high level of importance as the Supreme Administrative Court speaks of it. Apart from the interest of municipalities, the interests of citizens are respected by the involvement of municipalities in the spirit of representative democracy. Where this corresponds to the nature of the process, both the proposal and the direct involvement of citizens are possible. The very respect for the interest of municipalities and their citizens in the process of authorising the operation of storage is already in principle ensured through the EIA process or by new or prepared legislation, such as the new building law. The proposed proposal strengthens the transparency of the entire process of selecting a site for the location and construction of deep-water radioactive waste, as foreseen by Art. Council Directive 2011/70/Euratom of 19 July 2011 establishing a Community framework for the responsible and safe management of spent fuel and radioactive waste. [[Storage]] This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 10 The directive is already fully transposed into the Czech legal system, the bill is already fully beyond the scope of this article. Ladies and gentlemen, the last unanimous comment was made by the Parliamentary Audit Committee at the end of last year, inter alia in connection with the expressed support for the development of nuclear energy in the Czech Republic and in fulfilling the conditions of so-called taxonomy. [[11.10 hours]] The core is and will be one of the pillars of Czech energy, and ensuring the end of the fuel cycle is one of the prerequisites for the use of nuclear energy. Here it has to become an exceptional responsibility, or we should all have a responsible approach and support this process of preparation of the deep storage and safe provision of radioactive waste with regard to our future generations. I would like to ask you to support this material at today's meeting, as well as during further legislative discussions in the Committees of the Chamber of Deputies, as well as at second and third reading. It is our joint task and the responsibility of this government and the governments of the future. That is why I would like to ask the opposition for a substantive approach and offer cooperation, and it is precisely from my predecessor's proposal that we have come out and supplemented it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-03-ps2021-063-08-006-015.u3	Thank you very much, too, and I will now ask the rapporteur for the first reading, Mrs Michaela Opltová, to take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-03-ps2021-063-08-006-015.u4	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, may I also present to you the Government's draft law on management related to deep-sea radioactive waste storage. This is the House press 367. After the Minister's extensive word, allow me to say a few words. This Act regulates certain specific procedures for the preparation, construction and operation of deep-sea radioactive waste storage sites in the manner in which they are (?) the identification of respect for the interest of municipalities belonging to the contribution from the nuclear account under the Atomic Law, specific legislation on deep-sea storage and absolutely necessary, in particular due to the long-term nature of the deep-sea repository and the need for the involvement of the municipalities concerned and the public in related processes. [[Which one?]] [[Need?]] It is not the intention of the draft law to rephrase the provisions in question into a new legislation or to invent new procedures, but to adjust only the necessary derogations which, given the specificity of the storage authorisation, need to be adapted differently from the general rules. It is also important to ensure a sufficient level of involvement of municipalities and the adoption of a law can be expected to have positive effects related to strengthening public control as a result of the dissemination of the involvement of municipalities and the public in individual procedures aimed at the location of the deep storage, or the authorisation of its operation. The proposal defines the process in which nuclear waste storage management, the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the Ministry of Environment and the municipality must be managed. [[properly Manage radioactive waste storage sites]] The proposal further defines how municipalities can express their views on the repository. At the same time, it imposes on all entities how to inform the public. At the same time, the entire process is governed by the applicable upper law, the Act on interferences in the earth's crust and atomic law. It also follows European Union directives on public participation in draft laws that affect the environment. I would also like to report that we are preparing an amendment with coalition colleagues. This is an amendment to the law for the benefit of municipalities, which we will continue to load. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-03-ps2021-063-08-006-015.u5	Thank you very much. I am now opening a general debate to which the following Members are enrolled: as the first Mrs Iveta Štefanová, then Mrs Berenika Peštová will prepare herself with her contribution. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-03-ps2021-063-08-006-015.u6	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment here on the proposal tabled. In essence, this proposal is positive; we need a law on deep-sea storage of nuclear waste. If we want to lead the energy through the core, then, of course, we need to address the issue of nuclear waste management, and there are not many options left here. We have two options in the finals: it is further waste treatment or storage. The existing processing possibilities for us are currently unattainable, so dealing with waste disposal is the only option for us in the finals. What does this proposal bring us? In fact, it mainly deals with the involvement of municipalities in the whole process of management, selection of locations, construction, preparation of construction and so on. That is clearly necessary. It is absolutely unthinkable that the municipalities concerned would continue to be merely a viewer and not direct parties to the proceedings, i.e. active participants with the opportunity to comment and to be entitled to comment. I certainly welcome that intention. But here we need to think about the degree of involvement. In the proposal, the opinion of the municipality concerned is considered as one of the elements in the decision-making process, that is good. The question is, is it sufficient if the village concerned should not have the so-called veto right? I will not agree with the Minister here that this would not be possible in our terms, whether there should be a condition of necessary consent or at least a condition that any comments should be settled. I would certainly prefer the necessary consent, so that the active involvement of the municipality concerned in the proceedings is not merely formal, and in the finals it is virtually not only different from the observation. This will, of course, lead us to the question of how to obtain this consent. I also lack the question of compensation for municipalities. Not only must the municipalities compensate for all the costs and difficulties associated with the selection of the site, the survey, then with the actual implementation, but clearly there must be a bonus not only a financial, generous financial bonus, but also in the form of various advantages, respectively the municipality concerned must pay off the presence of a deep storage in the final, and not be harmful to it, and I think that this question is being addressed in insufficient terms. What I see as problematic there is the question of the need to discuss and agree with Parliament, where the time limit for discussion is a little tricky, and after that period, the matter is considered to be discussed. I would consider that unacceptable. Let us either talk about extending the deadline, or determine it to be sufficient, or determine the condition as unexcessible, that is, it must be discussed and it must be agreed by Parliament. I'd prefer that option here. So I welcome the intention of the law, but in this form I see it as insufficient, and there are parts that I think still need to be adjusted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-03-ps2021-063-08-006-015.u7	Thank you, Madame. Then Mrs Berenika Peštová will speak and Mr Richard Brabec will be prepared. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-03-ps2021-063-08-006-015.u8	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I will not repeat what the Minister has already said. In any event, I acknowledge that the proposed law envisages an increase in the intensity during the administrative procedure. You have well identified that the municipalities concerned in some proceedings have not yet had the opportunity to participate, and you are giving them the opportunity to do so, that is to say, they will be able to use procedural rights as proposals or remedies, which I say, I acknowledge, and I say, I will not repeat what you have already said, because I agree with that in essence. I've been at the Ministry for a long time, so I know what you must have been going through, because once you have six municipalities, finding a match is very complicated. But what puzzles me, or what I would like to ask you, and it concerns the nuclear repository, I have now registered in April. You had material on the government for government information, I didn't find any resolution on it, or whether the government approved or didn't approve it. It was information about the SÚRAO contract, and I'm sure you'll tell me something about it, because I think it's on the subject. This is a contract, performance, or a public contract aimed at participating in the test operation of the first deep-sea repository in the world in Finland. [[11.20 hours]] As far as I'm concerned, there should probably be three workshops going on, you should get down to the repository, and with some of that cone, you're gonna go down there to see what it looks like, and you're probably gonna simulate the storage of nuclear waste. But what struck me, and it really stopped - the price it would cost. The estimated value of the public contract is EUR 520 000 to EUR 675 000 without VAT, which is a brother of some 16 million. So this travel agency contract is 16 million. So I'm wondering, what's it gonna cost that 16 million? And that's just an assumed price, so the price can go up much higher, and it's still VAT-free. So I'd like to know if I've read correctly from the material that this should be the subject of the tour, how many of these participants are going because it's not, how long are you going to be there and if the price isn't overrated, if you don't have any radioactive waste in your pocket and you just put it there, okay? So I'd like to know, and I'm just curious, because I didn't find how the government stood up to it, whether this material was downloaded or not? Anyway, more information about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-03-ps2021-063-08-006-015.u9	Thank you. Mr Richard Brabec has also volunteered and will be prepared as the last member of Mr Michal Kučera. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-03-ps2021-063-08-006-015.u10	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear colleagues, esteemed members of the government, the Minister here has said that it is difficult to deal with the municipalities, or that he will try to make this proposal for the municipalities to be more satisfied and will try to bridge the ditches. I just wanted to ask the Minister whether he was in those municipalities, or whether he met those mayors or members, members of the councils, because I did it during my time - I don't know if I was in all those times nine, because it was the wider choice. But the truth is that at that time the SURAO really, it was about seven years ago, it did not communicate very well, and precisely as a result of the not very good long-term communication, it happened that the municipalities were bitter because they were probably promised something that was then not fulfilled. And I know it from other things, where, of course, it's crucial from the beginning to play so-called plain. It is not easy because, naturally, the municipalities are at a stage today - and according to my information, it is all the four municipalities in some narrower selection - where the municipal leaders are committed to referendums, of course, or I do not know if they have referendums in all cases, but when it is possible today as a topic, such as referendums to municipal elections, you will probably easily imagine how such a referendum will turn out, because of course everyone is afraid that their properties will lose value, everyone is afraid that it will have some negative effect, for example on water resources and so on and so on, even if we all know that a whole range of these fears are not completely rational or not all are rational, they are professionally justified. But the worst thing that can be done is that they only communicate bureaucratically with these municipalities, that is, something is getting into data boxes, something is being announced to them, and then of course, there's a simple notion that the state is not playing fair with them. And I'm gonna read an article that's from 28. 2. this year, but according to my information, the information is quite new, i.e. the last one is from April of this year, where all these municipalities met, or these people met and opposed, and I think they already knew the draft text of this special law, which we are starting to discuss here today, so I wonder if the minister sees any shift from the point of view of the municipalities and their opinion on the state administration, or how the state administration communicates with them. This does not, of course, apply only to the Ministry, it also applies to SÚRAO, it concerns others. Because when I read the articles, I don't have the feeling that the bridges were built or that the moats were buried, because there are still the same arguments that the report on SURAO's request to determine the research areas was put by the mayors in data boxes, that they were not being dealt with, that they wanted a text of a separate request, and that, in fact, beyond the very basic information that comes from the law, which is, of course, different degrees notifications, nobody talks to them much. I don't know if that's true, I'm, I'm saying again, he was in a number of these communities. I also know that the mayors, or rather often the associations that were formed there, had information that wasn't quite right, but it was necessary to explain it to them. And I also know from my own experience because I met with the councils and the citizens there, that it was often not pleasant, because of course these people sometimes don't even get to explain the rational arguments. And frankly, if I were to live in that village, and now the information was rushing at me, and I didn't have all of it, I wouldn't be completely thrilled that it would be in that particular community, because really the general view that if it was built around there somewhere, if it wasn't specifically a community that had experience with nuclear energy, such as, of course, a community near nuclear power plants, but I know that even the Temelín site wasn't exactly without problems, then people feel that life just ended there, that they would never sell the house or land, that no one would want to live there, which, of course, may not be true. But it's really important that these communications, so that these debates with these people, are repeated, so that the civil servants often go to the council, explain. And again, it doesn't always have to be a pleasant experience, because, of course, I experienced whistling in those meetings. Thus, eggs and other delicacies did not fly, nor did vegetables or fruit fly, but of course those people were not satisfied with all the answers. But that's just part of it. And that's definitely what the state has to do in the long run to reduce the kind of information noise that's been around it for a long time. So I'd like to know if this is really going on, the above-standard communication, not only what the law requires, the diction of the law, but also something more that I believe the municipal leadership, the people, of course, the residents of those communities, are fully entitled to and expect it. And I'm convinced that this state should clearly secure it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-03-ps2021-063-08-006-015.u11	Thank you, too. And before Mr Michal Kučera's last envoy comes to the counter, I shall make an apology: Mrs Lenka Knechtová apologizes from 11.30 pm for reasons of work. I shall therefore ask the Member. Mr Michal Kučera is the last member of the general debate so far. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-03-ps2021-063-08-006-015.u12	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I will just follow up on my previous speakers, and I will really thank the Ministry of Industry and Trade for raising this topic, for signing up to it, and for preparing a law or amendment that will be clearly in favour of the authorities that are affected by the possible construction of a deep nuclear repository. This is not the first time we've had this topic - and it's already been discussed here. We've been discussing this for over eight years, maybe even longer. The debate was not always entirely constructive, but I understand, of course, that the problems that were, in some way, had to be resolved over time. [[11.30 hours]] I mean, of course, the biggest mistake I see historically in the Nuclear Waste Storage Administration, SURAO, which actually didn't seem exactly happy in that territory at some time seven or eight years ago, that means that they actually discredited in the eyes of the public, in the eyes of the citizens of the regions at all the sense and use of the nuclear repository, and I also have to say that they brought uncertainty into the territory. That uncertainty consisted of many factors. I think that even by its activity and by the fact that the debate took place in six or seven different regions, when these regions suddenly became uncertain whether or not it would be a nuclear repository, whether or not it would be blocked by the development of the community or the entire region, whether their investments there, whether it was in the form of family houses, recreational buildings, or, of course, some other business in the form of pensions, and so on, whether they would not be threatened by the construction of nuclear storage, this activity took place in several, probably in six or seven regions at once, whether it was in Lubeneck, whether it was in the Highlands, whether it was in southern Bohemia, so that in that uncertainty was a whole number of regions and unfortunate communication from the Storage Administration, it only contributed to that. I will recall such debates, for example, somewhere in Lubeneck, they called meetings in the cultural house and explained how it would all be done, and in the meantime, geodetes and geological surveys were running somewhere in the fields and in the woods and they were doing preliminary drilling, so it certainly did not bring confidence to the whole process. So I'm glad that just today, an amendment to the law has appeared, which I think will bring about a certain shift in the whole area, and that it will give a greater role and a greater role to the self-government, so that they can talk to the whole process. I consider this essential, of course not only in the process of finding nuclear storage, but also in other debates regarding construction, whether line construction or others. [[for]] So if the municipalities or individual governments here can speak more strongly into this debate, it will be very beneficial. I believe the amendment itself will be prepared well. Of course, we will still have the opportunity to comment on the Economic Committee, if necessary, to catch up on some things that could be improved, and I hope that this will move us just to the point that the construction will start with the fact that the individual municipal or regional authorities will be identified with it, which I consider to be very fundamental. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-03-ps2021-063-08-006-015.u13	Thank you and Mr Josef Kott has signed up with the facts, the written applications have priority. I will then see how Mrs Peštová wants to sign up. Your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-03-ps2021-063-08-006-015.u14	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Minister, I, in response to the Chairman of the Agricultural Committee. We all realize that this may not have been a matter that was quite correct. On the other hand, it needs to be said that some of the government's MPs have made it a matter of election today. We are now pleased that the Minister has raised and raised the matter as it is that local governments will be able to do so and will be invited to discuss it as it was not before, but, of course, it is still about the fact that the territories have been reduced, only in the Highlands there are two, and colleagues who are from the Highlands will certainly see that the will, or the will to resolve it without the specific incentives that will come from the Ministry, will certainly not be dealt with there. I would very much like to see some of the mayors who are directly concerned about this in the Highlands to have the opportunity, within the framework of the amendments, to prepare a comfortable law in order to avoid any conflicts that might follow in the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-03-ps2021-063-08-006-015.u15	I also thank you for keeping the time de facto, and I assume that the Member is once again reporting in the general debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-03-ps2021-063-08-006-015.u16	So I wanted to ask the Minister if he would be so kind as to speak before he says the final word, because then we can't do it anymore. So if I could just ask and talk or answer what I asked you to do, so that I could possibly react to it, because then, when the final word is, I'm afraid I'm unlucky. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-03-ps2021-063-08-006-015.u17	Thank you, Madam, and I presume, Mr Kubíček, also in general.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-03-ps2021-063-08-006-015.u18	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much to the Minister for preparing this bill, which is one of the driving engines for us to build the radioactive waste storage from the global at all. However, I note that the past activities of SURAO were not taken very positively in the affected municipalities, and I know what I'm talking about because I live near Temelin, the area concerned is called Janoch, it's a short walk from us and it affects the intravilion of four municipalities - it's not quite easy. In any case, environmental activities quite aroused a certain activity, where - in reverse - they go to protest against this intention, but none of the SURAO were there, did not answer those matters. The decision to speak to the representatives of the municipalities as elected bodies is probably correct, because the general debate must now be conducted by the representatives of the municipalities with their citizens, and it will be a very difficult and very difficult and very long journey. On the other hand, given the storage sites located near nuclear power plants, it would be good for citizens to have access to these nuclear power plants as well. It's so peculiar, and I know that people don't know that, actually, every power plant has nuclear waste stored on its territory today in the halls where there are containers where the nuclear waste is, and that's like nobody cares, because they don't even know it, and placing nuclear waste underground is a whole other level of security. This is also the important thing that should be said there because the containers from the surface disappear underground. Another thing is, of course, some financial and, say, cultural compensation, because these municipalities are very concerned about the construction industry and the storage period. At the moment it will be geological work, but then they would like to know more or less some timetable as to how it touches the municipalities, how even during the construction period the municipality will be compensated. It is not just that there is a repository after that, because it is the beautiful thing that virtually no one will know about, because it will be landscaped, managed and in some way functional, and those citizens want to know if it will provide employment opportunities, if it provides other benefits that the municipality does not have. There would be a large number of cases, in any case I assume that representatives of the Ministry of Industry and Trade will also go to these locations and talk to the authorities. Then we must prepare for the journey of various environmental activities, which will somehow work with public opinion. The Ministry of Industry and Trade, the Ministry of the Environment, SURAO, all must prepare clear answers to questions that will arise. These questions will first appear in the public space, then they will specifically appear at meetings in those municipalities, and helping to explain self-government by those representatives must be clear, they must be well led. I'll just point out that SURAO is publishing a magazine that distributes in some cycles into the households of the municipalities concerned. Well, I don't want to evaluate it, but it doesn't say much to those citizens in the global, it's a rather technical text that's described there, there's some photos from storage, waste from other countries, but if I'm not an expert on this issue, I don't know about it, and I'm gonna be terribly worried about it, because it's all glowing, it's all gonna damage the citizens, the issues of increased health care, and so on, it's all gonna be. [[11.40 hours]] I'm just pointing out that, for example, in the municipalities affected by the construction of nuclear power plants, once a year, you're going to get iodine pills that should somehow save you in the event of a nuclear power plant explosion, without any more explanation, you're going to put them in the first aid kit, you're going to throw them out in a year, they're going to give you new ones, and you don't know what that's good for. Yes, we were part of the gate education, and we know that iodine is stored in the thyroid gland, the thyroid actually accumulates radioactive radiation, and that's to prevent it. However, I do not think that today's young people do not know at all that European legislation also raises some concerns about the core, see Germany. For them, nuclear waste is like you're storing weapons, ammunition and bombs, so it's just for people today, and it's gonna be a very long journey. Then I will return to the law, where I have no major reservations, however, regarding the approval of the building site by the House, where I am not entirely sure. I am saying quite frankly that this will have to be decided by the government, the government will have to make this decision, and I am not saying that it will be this government, or it will be the next government, because the construction period is very long, and Parliament will be in some sort of a state of mind, and I will then be curious to see how Members from the region will lobby it, because everyone will be asked to object in some way. I am a great supporter of the core, it is of great importance to the Czech Republic, otherwise it cannot be, and, of course, nuclear waste must be stored somewhere. I posted a page on my Facebook today, where there's a cube at the stadium about 37.5 meters in height, width and so on, and it's actually all burned-out nuclear waste since the generation of nuclear power plants, which is, and it's not very big if we look at it in some way. Maybe even what form of nuclear storage will be built, how it will be secured, how it will be stored there, some animation would probably do no harm, but I suppose that's what the Ministry of Industry and Trade will probably do. So, Minister, only if you tell me if SÚRAO will increase its activities, if he will attend various folk meetings and whether he will be ready to explain our future wisely. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-03-ps2021-063-08-006-015.u19	Thank you, and Mr Vít Kaňkovský is still on the table for the general debate. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-03-ps2021-063-08-006-015.u20	Good morning, Madam Vice-President, Minister, other members of the government, colleagues, just a few comments on the Government's draft law on procedures related to deep-sea storage. Maybe I'll pick up a little bit on what I said behind the microphone here, and I'm basically continuous in that opinion. In the last parliamentary term, I have intersected here the then Vice Prime Minister and Minister of Industry and Trade, Karel Havlíček's colleague, and this has to do with what the Minister said here at the beginning, and that is that this is a very, very sensitive issue, and I am aware of this as an MP and as a citizen as a doctor. On the one hand, we are a country that is actually dependent on nuclear energy, nuclear energy, and we want to keep it that way, we want to continue to develop nuclear energy, and this also has to do with our responsibility for dealing with the so-called - and here I stress the word "nuclear waste." It needs to be realized, and I also said here that spent or processed nuclear fuel is actually extracted from a physical point of view, if I say so, from some 4 percent. That means when we call it nuclear waste, it's basically not the right word. However, it is spent fuel that we have to store in some way, and we have to think about how we will do it in the future. At the moment, we are not alone in this, a number of countries are struggling with this, and it must be rightly said that only Finland has deep storage in Europe at the moment, and so far only in the test operation. Probably in 2025, Finland will start storing spent fuel correctly into the deep storage site. It must be said that we have other radioactive waste here, such as health care and some other facilities, which we also need to be able to deal with. So much for an introduction. When I intersected Minister Havlíček here at the time, I mentioned several aspects here. The first one, I said at the outset, did it really come to a time when we should put spent fuel under the ground, and if it should be an irreversible process? The opinions and the experts are changing a little bit here. However, the idea still prevails: Yes, let us put it under the ground. This means that at the moment we must take this as a position that wins for experts, at least in Central Europe. Then we're thinking about how to figure out where to put it. We may have been through a process of almost 15 years where, in some way, one step at a time in this, both the Minister and some colleagues have already said so. Unfortunately, towards the municipalities concerned and gradually their number is narrowing - the approach of state organisations to these municipalities is not good for the long term. But that's the past, and the Minister mentioned it here too, and there's nothing we can do about it now. I want to thank the MIT's current leadership for trying to change this situation, and even with this bill. I firmly believe that we can discuss this bill both professionally and politically very well within the legislative process, and as far as my position on it is concerned, I agree with a large part of this bill. What I appreciate - and I think it is very important to mention - is that public control of the process of finding the final site has increased significantly. I think that this intention or search for this repository will be discussed by both chambers of Parliament, so it is very good and I think that it is also acknowledged from a public point of view. [[♪ to ♪]] I think that there is still a need to extend the deadline for discussion in both chambers of Parliament, because the 60-day period, as we know how the House works, how the Senate works, is very, very short, here I would advocate an extension for 180 days. And then, of course, as set up at this moment in Parliament, there is a fiction of consent when the two chambers of Parliament would not have spoken within the time limit. I think it would be worth turning around, that this should be a fiction of disapproval, but that will certainly be discussed in committees and possibly at second reading. Then there is still a matter of disapproval of the municipalities with their involvement. Within the framework of the bill, the power of municipalities to enter the process has been greatly strengthened, however, the municipalities concerned - and today it is only four locations - are not yet fully identified, but this will certainly also be the subject of discussions both in committees and at second reading. So for me, I want to thank the Minister and the Government for coming here with this bill, because if we didn't have the law, I don't think we're able to get those municipalities into that system any better. I also thank you for the fact that at least a little better communication from state organisations has improved, although I am not quite sure about this with SURAO workers yet, but I firmly believe that this will also happen in the coming months. And I would like to ask the Minister, in the course of discussions on possible amendments, that he be as a person, as a competent minister and as a ministry, ready to cooperate with Members on possible amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-03-ps2021-063-08-006-015.u21	Thank you, and I'll just make sure - but you didn't make the motion to extend the deadline, just... the proposal wasn't made. Just to be perfectly clear.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-03-ps2021-063-08-006-015.u22	Maybe we didn't get along here. I have spoken of the deadline proposed in the Act for discussion by the two chambers of Parliament, which is proposed for 60 days, and in my opinion it will be necessary to extend this period within the framework of the amendment. [[11.50 hours]] I see 180 days in my own time because we know how a legislative process is normally conducted, and there is the fiction of consent, which means that if one or the other Chamber of Parliament had not discussed the selection of the final site within 60 days, it would have essentially given its consent. I say for myself that we should extend this deadline. For me and even after the discussion with the mayors and others concerned, I think that the deadline should be three times longer, that is, 180 days. It's not about the law now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-03-ps2021-063-08-006-015.u23	Great, thank you. So I'm going to ask if anyone else wants to speak in the general debate? Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-03-ps2021-063-08-006-015.u24	Thank you again, Madam President. Madame Members, dear young friends at the gallery, at the beginning of my speech I asked the opposition in particular for a substantive approach and offered cooperation. I also mentioned that we were based on our predecessor's proposal. I was brought to the attention, as they said, of the need to introduce what, according to the Legislative Council of the Government, is not acceptable in the proposed form. The right to suspension veto has been rejected. So on the other hand, I have come across the view that the proposal to leave the final site on both chambers of Parliament to be approved is not considered appropriate. But that's what we're here to actually end up with a law that's in favour of this country's interests. When it comes to Mrs Kohoutová's contribution, through Madam President, of course - sorry, I am sorry, Peštová, I am sorry - I would like to ask again for substance. [[She's talking to Mrs. Pest.]] I, Madam President, really beg you, Madam President, to call your business trips a tour of the Ministry's staff or subordinate organisations. You've used that word several times, and I'm going to try to answer your question about the material submitted to the government. This is the subject of a public contract. The petitioner must define the subject matter of the contract sufficiently and certainly and must state all relevant information on the basis of which the members of the government create a comprehensive picture, but I don't think I need to mention that to you. In the present case, it was a material which was given to the government for information. The subject matter of the contract is participation in the test operation of the first deep storage site in the world. This is a so-called trial run, an experimental run in Finland. These will be several workshops where the entire process of storing spent nuclear fuel will be simulated from its introduction into the hot chamber, handling in the hot chamber, transport in the deep repository until the storage and sealing in the storage well. Due to the presence of participants, the entire process will be carried out with fuel set traps. The test operation is the final stage of preparation for the operation of the Posiva Oy Deep Storage. Successful performance of the test plays a crucial role in future commissioning. As I said before, the services offered include an introductory web seminar. It's a transport workshop, underground work, manipulation in a hot chamber. The second workshop is the processes associated with the storage of containers in the well, its sealing and re-removal. The third workshop is then a lesson from the construction and operation of the deep storage and a set of documents for the test operation. The method of determining the estimated value of the submitter shall specify the procedure for determining the submitted value. In this context, I must state one thing, namely that the subject of a public contract is a test operation. This is a worldwide unique performance which SÚRAO cannot request from a supplier other than Posiva Solutions Oy, taking into account the nature of the performance when it is a test operation of the first deep storage in the world. There just isn't any other way. Nor can competition be threatened, since there is no competition, there is only one possible supplier. I still have to state that unlike SÚRAO, Posiva Solutions Oy is a private company that will operate the repository. That means the prices of the seminars are based on what we received from them. In order not to really feel that this is some kind of tour, we are considering, together with SURAO, offering - and after all, I am doing this on my business trips - to selected Members, or maybe in the past we have taken mayors from sites to similar events, to look at the nuclear repository in Finland, which Posiva Solutions Oy is running. So much for your question, Madame. We really don't do tours. As far as my meeting with the representatives of the municipalities is concerned, I met them before the law was passed. The feedback I received from them - and I can't believe it, nor do I want to - was that no minister had given them as much time and listened to their comments and demands as I had given them. Of course, SURAO will increase activities, organize workshops, information, local working groups, advisory panels of experts, so we will do everything we can to keep public information as high as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-03-ps2021-063-08-006-015.u25	Thank you. Since we are still in the general debate, it is still possible to speak in it. Mrs Peštová has applied, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-03-ps2021-063-08-006-015.u26	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Minister, you haven't answered my question. Thank you for reading me the report I read, too, that's the report on the execution of the contracting authority's intention. I've had a great time with you, too, because word for word, but you haven't answered my question. The fact that I said it was a travel agency was based on the fact that I asked you two questions - one is how many people are going, and the other, how long are you going to be there, because the 16 million you're actually asking for here, and you're doing a public contract, don't be mad at me, but 16 million is a lot to me. You're telling me that the three workshops you listed here, the special you're flying, will cost $16 million? I understand the company's probably gonna take something for it if it's a private company, but that's gonna cost $16 million? This is written here, the estimated value of the public contract is EUR 520 000 to EUR 675 000 without VAT depending on the number of candidates, so the price can be even higher! So this is what I've been wondering how long and how many people are going. If you think 16 million isn't enough, then I feel like a lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-03-ps2021-063-08-006-015.u27	Thank you. I still see the Minister's interest in speaking in the general debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-03-ps2021-063-08-006-015.u28	Once again, Madame. As I said before, it is a unique know-how that is not available anywhere in the world because it is the first nuclear repository in the world. The subject of these three weekly workshops is the creation of this know-how for the Czech Republic within the framework of the real manipulation and operation of the nuclear repository, which after its commissioning will no longer be possible because it will be in hot mode. That means the only window of opportunity we have for the workshops we have now. Then we won't get the know-how. [[12.00 hours]] And again, that's your style! Where did you get a special, please nicely? Who told you somebody was going somewhere special? Why are you trying to create the atmosphere here again? The price, please nicely, is determined by the supplier, the operator of the repository, who is currently the only bearer of the know-how in the world.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-03-ps2021-063-08-006-015.u29	Thank you and the contribution brought about a factual one. Mr Jan Volný with his two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-03-ps2021-063-08-006-015.u30	I'd have had enough for the minister. He's frowning at me, but I believe the road has a purpose. I believe that before we start investing in this place and building it, doing it, it's good to see something where they already have it, and they're doing it right. However, if a price is already fired, and I'm not saying whether it's big or small, we have to have any idea how many people plus minus go there and how long those people are gonna be looking at everything! I'm not questioning the road, but if my colleague asked for that information, I think we should know by now that we're here to decide whether or not we're going to do it for $16 million. So that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-03-ps2021-063-08-006-015.u31	Thank you for delaying my time, and I feel an interest in responding again. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-03-ps2021-063-08-006-015.u32	For the record, if anybody overheard it, but I believe I replied that it was three people and three weeks of workshops, and I said it in my second performance. So I'm gonna do it again on the microphone, on the cameras, and eventually I'm gonna paint it on some paper, and I'm gonna show it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-03-ps2021-063-08-006-015.u33	Thank you, and if there's no interest in the performance... Mrs Peštová. Really, please? [[Yes.]] So, in fact, from Mrs Peštová's place.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-03-ps2021-063-08-006-015.u34	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Minister, you don't have to be arrogant, it's pointless. I don't know why you're gonna tell us you're gonna show us something. I listened to you carefully and you didn't say those three people! That's why I'm... I didn't hear it, I'm sorry, but I really didn't hear it was three people. That's why I kept wondering how many people would go for 16 million to look at three workshops. Yes, I find the price overrated, because we've already been a few, I don't say similar, workshops, but we've had a chance to see how the nuclear repository is being built, because when we were at the Ministry, they presented it to us. But if you're saying that 16 million is an adequate price for you, it seems to me that the price is high.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-03-ps2021-063-08-006-015.u35	Thank you for keeping time, and now I have no more application for the general debate, and I am ending the general debate. I ask if there is an interest in the final words of the Minister, the rapporteur? It's not. This means that we will be dealing with which committees we will present this proposal for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Economic Committee as a guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? It's not like that. We will therefore proceed to the vote, who agrees that the proposal put forward should be ordered to discuss the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee. I've started the vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 232, 150 votes were cast, for 122, against 0. I therefore note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Economic Committee as a guarantee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order this proposal to the Committee on the Environment as a further committee. I'll ask if anyone else has a motion on the commandment to the next committee or committees for discussion? Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-03-ps2021-063-08-006-015.u36	Thank you. I would also propose, given the importance of the legislative substance, the issue of Parliament's approval and the time limit for the hearing, and so on, that we discuss this issue on the constitutionally-legal committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-03-ps2021-063-08-006-015.u37	Thank you, Mrs Štefanová's proposal. So isn't there another motion for the commandment of the next committee? [[No.]] Excellent. So I've heard a motion to unsubscribe, so I always check you out. Please log in with your ID cards again. So, first of all, we will vote on the proposal, let us say, against the proposal, namely, Mrs Štefanová, that this proposal should also be directed to the Committee on Constitutional Law. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 233, 132 votes cast, for 57, against 11. The motion was not accepted. In addition, the proposal was therefore to order this proposal to the Committee on the Environment. Initiating vote. Who agrees with the proposal to order this proposal to the Committee on the Environment? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In this vote number 234, 134 Members voted in favour of 128, against 0. This proposal was adopted. The Committee on the Environment has been ordered to discuss the proposal, and so we have dealt with all the proposals that can be voted out. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur. [[This is Mrs Schiller.]] I merely conclude this point, with permission, I perceive the President, and after the conclusion of this point, please, Madam President, with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-03-ps2021-063-08-006-015.u38	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I would like to say that the YES movement has a problem with the following press, paragraph 105, House press 312, because we do not like the fact that it is essentially harmless, and I believe that the necessary law has been used to add an adhesive to it, which addresses absolutely fundamental and other issues, so at this point we will take a break at the ANO club's meeting within 14 hours, but before you announce it, Madam Vice-President, I ask you to vote to remove the items from the agenda and then announce a break within 14 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-03-ps2021-063-08-006-015.u39	Thank you, I understand. So there is a proposal to put to the vote on the proposal for the elimination of the remaining unnegotiated items approved by the 63rd meeting. I'll call in a colleague, a colleague. I am opening the vote on this proposal. Who is in favour of a motion to dismiss unnegotiated points? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? This is vote number 235, registered 135 votes for 121, against 3. I note that the proposal has been approved, points have been eliminated. Thus, we have exhausted the approved agenda of the 63rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, so I can end this meeting. But I remind you of the important thing: on Monday, May 8th, there will be an Open Day, so it is worth cleaning up your desk materials. There's gonna be an Open Door Day. Furthermore, 10 minutes after the announcement of this pause or the end of the meeting, an organizational committee will be held, i.e. at approximately 12.19 we will meet at the Organizing Committee. Thank you.
