ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-12-ps2021-050-03-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government. I begin on the third day of the 50th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome you all. In order to record our participation, I will first check you out and please log in with ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who's asking for a replacement card. I agree that the following Members asked to apologize for their absence at today's meeting: Pekarová Adamová Markéta the whole day - foreign travel, Adámková Věra within 13 hours - working reasons, Babiš Andrej the whole day - personal reasons, Balaštíková Margita within 11 hours - working reasons, Bašta Jaroslav the whole day - working reasons, Bělica Josef the whole day - medical reasons, Bžoch Jaroslav the whole day - family reasons - family reasons, Decroix Eva the whole day - medical reasons, Faltýnek Jaroslav the whole day - family reasons - family reasons, Fialová Eva from 9 to 10 hours - health reasons, Flek Josef the whole day - working reasons, Hájek Jiří the whole day - foreign trip, Helebrant Tomáš until 11 hours - working reasons, Juchelka Alešš the whole day - Ondřej reasons - working day - working reasons, Klíma Pavel the whole kolovratník day - working Martin, Kneztová Lenka Lenčka Lenka from 14.30 to 9 hours - working day - working reasons - working day - kolář days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days - working days Věra from 15.30 to 18.30 - working reasons, Krejza Karel full day - without giving reason, Lacina Jan until 9.30 - working reasons, Vladimíra Vladimíra whole day - family reasons, Liška Petr whole day - working reasons, Novák Marek until 11 hours - health reasons, Okamura Tomio until 11.30 - working reasons, Olšáková Eliška from 11 to 13 hours - working reasons, Pastuchová Jana from 13 to 9 hours - working reasons, Pivoňka Vaňková Pavla whole day - working reasons - working reasons, Quittová Petra whole day - medical reasons, Richter Jan within 11 hours - working reasons, Špičák Julius within 12 hours - working reasons, Tureček Karel whole day - working reasons, Válková Helena within 11 hours - working reasons, vlček Lukáš whole day - working reasons - working day - working reasons, Vojtko Viktor - working day - working reasons, Vrána Petr all working day - working reasons - Ženíšek days - working reasons - working days - working reasons - working days - working hours - working reasons - working reasons - working hours - working hours - working hours - working hours - working hours - working hours - working hours - working hours - working hours - working hours - working hours - working hours - working hours - working hours - working hours - working hours - working hours - working hours - working hours - working hours - working hours - working hours - working hours - working hours - working hours - working hours - working hours - working hours - working time. Members of the government apologize. Fiala Petr within 10 hours - working reasons, Balaš Vladimír until 9.45 and from 13 to 16 hours - working reasons, Baxa Martin from 14.30 - working reasons, Bek Mikuláš the whole day - working reasons, Blažek Pavel from 14.30 - working reasons, Černochová Jana until 11 hours - working reasons, Langšádlová Helena from 9 to 14 hours - working reasons, Lipavskýý Jan within 11 hours - working reasons, Nekula Zdeněk the whole day - working reasons, Austrian Vít until 10 and from 17 hours - working reasons, Šalomoun Michal the whole day - working reasons. Today's meeting will begin at paragraph 136, the answers of the members of the government to written interpelations. I would remind you that, immediately after the discussion of paragraph 136, the results of the elections held yesterday will be announced. We will then begin the discussion of paragraph 87, House press 264, Amendments to Appendix I to the International Convention against Doping in Sport, first reading, pursuant to Section 90 para. 2. I have a message here: Mr Kučera votes with a replacement card 36. Please note that applications for oral interpelations may be submitted within 11 hours at the latest and their lottery draw will then take place. Now I open the first point and that's the point.
