ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-22-ps2021-054-01-000-000.u1	Madam Members, honourable Members, honourable Members and Members of the Government, before we begin this 54th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, I would like to remind you that about seven minutes after the end or, if necessary, the suspension of this meeting, but no later than about 14 pm this afternoon, we would again continue the adjourned 53rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I am now opening the 54th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I warmly welcome you all here. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you out and ask you all to sign up with your ID cards and, if necessary, to tell me who's asking for a replacement card. The meeting was convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 66 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Tuesday 14 February 2023. And now we will proceed to the designation of two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Mrs Milada Voborská and Mr Ondřej kolář. I wonder if anyone else has a proposal to identify verifiers? In the meantime, I will load a replacement card, Mr Jiří horák votes with a replacement card, if I am correctly marked, 23. I'm gonna ask him to check the number. And so I will now call my fellow Members to vote and we will designate Mr Milada Voborská and Mr Ondřej kolář as the verifier. I've started the vote. Whoever is for these proposed verifiers, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? In the vote number one, 123 Members and Members, for 119, against 0. I note that we are the verifiers of the 54th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies appointed a Member of the Milada Voborská and a Member of Ondřej kolář. I am now saying that before the opening of the meeting they asked for apologies for their absence from the meetings of the following Members: Vice-President Jan Bartošek for the whole David day, Mr Josef Bělica for the whole working day, Ondřej Benešík for the whole working Róbert for personal reasons, or for family Špičák, Stanislav Blaha for the Teleky Marek day, Martin Exner for the Šimek Růžička day, Radim Fiala for the whole working day for the whole working day, Josef Naiclerová for the whole Válková day for health reasons, Matěj Ondřej Havel for the Pavel international Žáček, from 9 to 11.30 hours for the whole Vondráček day, from the whole working day for Jan of health Volný, Tomio Okamura for the Robert králíček day, from the whole working Ženíšek for the whole foreign trip, Eliška Bohuslav from the Potůčková working Svoboda. Prime Minister Petr Fiala apologizes from the members of the government for the whole day due to foreign travel, Minister Vladimír Balaš from the whole day for health reasons, MikuláMikuláš Bek from the whole day for health reasons, Pavel Blažek until 11 hours for work reasons, Jan Lipavskýý from the whole day for reasons of foreign travel, Vít Rakušan until 11 hours for personal reasons, Jozef Síkela from the whole day for reasons of foreign travel, Michal Šalomoun from the whole day for personal reasons, Vlastimil Válek until 9.30 hours for working reasons. Well, that would be an apology for now. We will now proceed, ladies and gentlemen, to the agenda of the 54th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. It is recalled that according to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No change or addition of the program can be proposed. It is also not possible to expand the approved programme. I'll just look around - I don't have an application with priority rights at this point. We can therefore proceed to the vote on the whole proposal for a programme. I'm gonna sing, I'm gonna call in my coworkers and co-workers from the lobby. We will therefore vote on the whole proposal for the 54th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies as submitted in writing. I've started the vote. Whoever is in favour of the proposed show, press the button and raise your hand. Anyone who opposes may also press the button and raise your hand. In voting number 2, 146 Members voted, for it was 80, against 62. I therefore state that the agenda for the meeting has been approved. And now we can approach our only point on the show, that's point one, which I'm opening with this.
