ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u1	120. Oral inhalation Today, with the participation of the verifier, the ranking of Members was drawn, in which they will speak and submit oral interviews first to Prime Minister Petr Fiala or the Government of the Czech Republic and then to other members of the Government. The lists of Members according to the winning order have been distributed to you on the bench. I would like to point out to both the intersecting Members and those intersected by the members of the Government that, immediately after the end of the intersecting on the apologized Prime Minister, the interspersing on the members of the Government will follow. I'll read the apologies that ran out in the meantime. Mr David Pražák apologizes from 14:00 for work Válek and also from 14:30 for work reasons. I will now give the floor to Mrs Marie Pošarová, who was drawn in the first place to give an oral interview to the pardoned Prime Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u2	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear absent Prime Minister, I'd like to ask you about the capacity of boarding schools. Unfortunately, students who applied to colleges or secondary schools did not get to boarding schools for capacitance reasons. Unfortunately, as far as I was concerned, boarding schools are occupied by Ukrainian migrants, refugees. I'd like to ask if they've been receiving donations directly from July 1st, if they can make sure they find their private apartments and not block our students' or foreign students' seats, and what you're gonna do about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u3	Thank you for keeping time. The Prime Minister is excused, replying in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. With another interview, Mr Ladislav Okleštěk was drawn. Mr Radek Koten will then be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u4	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, unfortunately absent - dear Petr, I wish you all the best for your holiday, also to all the Petr who are present in the Chamber of Deputies, but also to television screens. I wanted to interpel in the matter of VAT on firewood, but as Prime Minister, you have very important responsibilities, I will keep this point when you are present so that we can discuss how we will continue to beg people from the countryside, people who have the biggest problem with the energy crisis. I will try to pre-negotiate this topic with your colleague Stanjura, whom I have prepared to interpelate at the very next time. Thank you for definitely responding and for seeing me next time. Have a nice day, everyone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u5	Thank you. Once again, I am merely stating that the Prime Minister is excused. The answer will come in writing within 30 days. Mr Radek Koten, Mr Marek Novák, will be ready now. Take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, since you are on a foreign trip, I hope you will use this foreign trip to sort of correct what Mr. Rakušan has signed as Minister of the Interior. This is therefore the amended so-called migration pact and the compulsory solidarity. According to the UN, about 5 billion Afričan are ready to head for Europe, so I hope you understand that, in this number, it is not possible for a Europe that is not inflatable, this number, which will bravely import non-profit organizations that pay for the European Union, so we are unable to absorb. That is why I hope, as Prime Minister of this Republic, that you will be able to convert the consent of Minister Rakušan to disagree, because it is quite obvious that the countries of the European Union cannot handle such a surge of illegal migrants from the third world. Thank you for your answer, and I hope that you will succeed, or that you will have the will to do so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u7	Thank you, too, for keeping time. I note that the answer from the apologized Prime Minister will come in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Mr Marek Novák will now appear, Mrs Lenka Knechtová will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u8	Prime Minister, your five-calice government is struggling with a public deficit this time of year, you are failing to meet the parameters of your state budget. The prepared austerity package is aimed only at the citizens of this state and not at the institutions you run. Newly set resources such as windfall tax are not filled, so you collect maximum dividends from state organizations not for further development and investment, but for operation. In this context, it seems to be incomprehensible that your government majority in the Chamber of Deputies is obstructing the negotiation of an amendment to the Law on Payment in the area of the right to a bank account for entrepreneurs. This could bring real income to the social security system and tax contributions, especially in the area of so-called FinTech companies, through business companies. These are carried out in an area where they will be burdened with hard and consistent supervision of the Czech National Bank as well as subsequent certification. The inaction of your government and the obstruction of free enterprise will take these entities and their tax revenues elsewhere. This opinion is not only a consensus between stakeholders, but also here in the Chamber of Deputies at the level of the subcommittee on ICT, telecommunications and the digital economy, across the political spectrum. Prime Minister, what steps will you take to ensure that this government behaves as a proper economy, develops technology and procedures in the area of 21st century financial technology? And within what time frame, when will you finally take such action? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u9	Thank you, too. Again, I note that the apologized Prime Minister will reply in writing within 30 days in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Lenka Knechtová will now appear, then Mrs Monika Oborná. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u10	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, colleagues, the government borrows 140 billion, saying that there is a need to save money. Public administration investigations are also required with authorities and institutions that are not really digitized, their budgets are in the order of millions of crowns and the number of employees is small. If they show vacant posts, this is also because only experts with highly specialised qualifications such as lawyers, IT specialists can accept these positions, and there is a shortage of them in the labour market. In short, we are balancing at the edge and the situation is unsustainable following the budget of 2024. We also discussed this in the budget committee of the Chamber of Deputies, but unfortunately, the Minister of Finance does not attend the committee. For this reason, I would like to introduce you to this problem and ask you to pay more attention to the financing of small chapters of the state budget and to get acquainted with this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u11	Thank you for keeping time. The answer shall be in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Monika Oborná will now appear. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u12	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. My colleagues, my dear fellow Members, unfortunately absent Prime Minister, I am very sorry that I will not receive an answer today, because I have tried to include this item on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies, but it has failed. I will not have an answer today either, so hopefully it will come in writing at least. [[14.40 hours]] Prime Minister, the Dukovany tender is running and your government is silent. And he is silent on the participation of Czech companies in the construction of new nuclear sources. A few figures I consider important: the costs of building a new nuclear block in Dukovany are currently estimated at 160 billion crowns. According to the study, we know that Czech companies can participate from up to 65 percent. The Czech gross domestic product could increase by up to CZK 234 billion and revenues to public budgets by up to 96 billion. On income taxes the state would collect an additional CZK 1.66 billion per year and on social and health insurance up to CZK 6.18 billion per year. I think that these figures really are not negligible, which is why I consider it very desirable and crucial for the Czech industry to be involved in the construction of nuclear blocks to the maximum extent possible. However, I do not see any activity on the part of the State or the MIT, respectively, in this regard. CEZ and the government did not give any request for a percentage of participation of Czech companies towards potential suppliers. I attended the seminar of the Economic Committee, where Czech companies were represented within the Czech industry, which agreed that potential suppliers almost did not communicate with them, if so, only very formally or rather such marketing communication. [[Time.]] I consider that a great deal of damage.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u13	Thank you, and at the same time I note that the answer will come in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[Screams from the diaper pointing out that there isn't a single minister in government benches.]] Mr Radek Vondráček will now appear and Mr Josef Kott will be ready. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u14	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. I'm going to use some of my interpellation to point out that there isn't a single minister. Not one! It is a special place of the Rules of Procedure, because if they do so all the time and everyone else, in quotation marks they will shut off the interpelation, the interpelations that are regulated in the Constitution of the Czech Republic. It is a fundamental instrument for opposition Members to address and demand an answer from the members of the government, that is, the resolution cannot be applied here, that the House's negotiations must be interrupted, but I think that this is really rare and that it may indeed be part of the interpellation that I am now speaking to the Prime Minister. Prime Minister, at last make sure that ministers come here to interpel, and please answer me as part of this interview, what you will do, what you have done for it, and how you will arrange for ministers to come here on a matter that is regulated in the Constitution of the Czech Republic and in the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. And in that very short time, all I have to do is make room for a piece of my intervention, which should have been about the abuse of political influence in the distribution of grant funds and public resources for non-profit organizations. I am particularly interested in funding 563 million for a non-profit organization, I think it is called SYRI, which produced, for example, this year from a budget which is expected to be 160 million, perhaps one article and one seminar, last year they had a 75 million budget and only produced 20 articles. [[Time.]] Unfortunately, I didn't get a chance to give the whole interview. I did what I could.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u15	Thank you. What has been presented will be answered in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I'll take care of the appeal. Now, Mr Josef Kott, Mrs Lucie Šafránková will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u16	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, your government has the support of digitalisation in the Czech Republic as such in its programming statement, and the Deputy Minister of Agriculture is talking about this being one of the important priorities for the coming period and for the new Minister. This is digitalisation, smart agriculture, precise agriculture, agriculture 4.0 and following up on the sustainability directive. Given that not only is it missing in agriculture, but it can be assumed that the workforce will decline in the next period, digitalisation is, in my view, really very important. I believe that this matter goes beyond the competence of the Ministry of Agriculture, and because it is linked to the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Industry and Trade, that is why I am addressing you with this question, Prime Minister. The first question is: are you, Prime Minister, ready to coordinate the drawing of resources from the European Union for the aforementioned ministries? And the second question: Are you prepared to support an increase in the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture from national sources, given that the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture is significantly, but significantly, underfunded this year, and according to the information available, doesn't the Minister of Finance of Stanjura count on a significant change next year? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u17	Thank you for keeping up the time, and before the next performer comes, I'll load up the apologies. In the meantime, Mr Oldřich Černý apologizes from 14:30 to 18:00 for work reasons, Mr Vít Kaňkovský from 14:30 for work reasons, Mr Jana Krutáková from 15:00 to 18:00 for work reasons and Mr Miroslav Zborovský from 14:30 to 18:00 for work reasons. Now, madam, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u18	Thank you for your word. Dear absent Prime Minister, your government has turned a really bad color lately. In the programming statement and elsewhere, you are constantly talking about making pro-family policy, but the opposite is true. In your consolidation package, you want to remove the tax discount on the cost of a child's stay in kindergarten, i.e. the so-called kindergarten, and limit the discount on a wife or husband caring for children in the home. Families with children under three years of age will lose at least CZK 17,300 a year, families with children aged four to seven years, even CZK 42,000 a year, and this is a major impact on the income of these families. Why are you going this way when, according to the latest data, birth rate is dropping rapidly, which is clearly a negative trend? Prime Minister, you have not been able to submit a proposal for an increase in parental contribution for a year and you introduced it yesterday, but only at a very low amount, completely unmatched by the increase in the inflation rate since its last increase at the beginning of 2020, and in addition only for newly born children since 2024. Do you think that's justice and national policy in the hands of your government? What is your personal attitude on this subject? Why do you treat working families with young children like that? What about people with disabilities? Why do you keep refusing to help them, such as my proposal to increase the care allowance, which has not increased for seven years and is extremely low?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u19	Thank you for keeping time. Mrs Karla Maříková will now appear, Tomáš Kohoutek will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u20	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear absent Prime Minister, in your programming declaration, you have committed yourself to protecting the environment, natural resources, landscape, nature, biodiversity and climate, and will be the key priorities of the government, which will promote them in close cooperation between environmental, agriculture, industry and trade, transport and local development and after consulting the social partners. The State Enterprise of the Forest of the Czech Republic cut down trees from the time of Marie Terezie without permission and against the will of scientists and locals. Several hectares of forest were cut down in the Europeanly important locality of eastern Krušnohoří. Speaker of the Forests of the Czech Republic in the media confirmed that illegal logging has actually taken place in the area of Litvínova and Telnice. It was an extremely preserved, over 200 years old beech, which formed the original species composition of the forest. Mining hit not only a unique old forest, but also a local biotope of specially protected animals. Although the forests of the Czech Republic claimed the possibility of cutting in December 2020, they were not even waiting for permission from the authorities. I wonder who will be responsible in the state enterprise Forest of the Czech Republic for this act, and how is it possible that the state enterprise does not comply with the laws? And Prime Minister, will your government prepare measures to prevent the destruction of forests? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u21	I also thank you for keeping time. Once again, the answer shall be in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And now Mr Tomáš Kohoutek will appear, then Martin Kukla. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u22	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, I am from a beautiful town on the Elbe, the city of Děčín, which is the northernmost district city in the Czech Republic. In all its history, it was linked to the Elbe River. The navigability of the Elbe river and thus its usability to transport with increasing drought and other climatic changes has fallen rapidly, when in recent years the Elbe has been able to reach the navigable state line for a maximum of three to four months per year in a section from the roofing locks. The solution to the year-round navigability is called the sailing stage Děčín. This level of sailing Děčín is not to be built and located directly in Děčín, but up to a few kilometers below Děčín in the area of Lower Žleb. Why do I care about the development of shipping on the Elbe? The answer is simple. By the fact that the Elbe River is an average navigable three months, up to four months in a year, due to the absence of a navigational stage from the roofing locks, the end of the Czech shipping industry, to which hundreds, perhaps thousands of jobs are linked to Děčínsk, is certainly imminent. The development of shipping thanks to the sailing stage Děčín would not only bring new jobs for Děčín, not only in the field of shipping, but also in the area of tourism in the city itself, where a wonderful port with a marina for passenger ships could be built in the city of Děčín in order to raise the river level and its sustainability year-round. At the same time, it would significantly support the local manufacturer of large-volume pressure vessels, which it is already supplying to the world. Unfortunately, however, it is no exception that these large-volume pressure vessels are waiting for their customers - often even half a year - to increase the level of the river, since there is no other way of transport than by boat. I therefore wonder whether you personally as Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, but also the entire government, support the construction of the Děčín sailing stage and what steps you have taken in almost one and a half years of your mandate to implement it successfully. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u23	Thank you, too. Once again, the reply will be sent in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. Mr Martin Kukla will now appear, and since the following winning interpellation has been withdrawn, he will also have the following interpellation. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u24	Thank you for the floor. Dear, absent again, Prime Minister, I am looking at your government's programming statement and I am not surprised. It's like a beautiful dream, but the reality is completely the opposite, regardless of the fact that you'd rather rework the programming declaration after a year because you probably didn't believe it yourself. Are you kidding us? Are you making fun of people in the Czech Republic, municipalities and regions? Now I'm gonna read you a quote from your programming statement. In the chapter of regional and local development, I quote: "We will maintain the existing funding of municipalities and change the budgetary determination of regions on the basis of the agreement of the Association of Regions and increase the overall allocation." When I look into history, it only increased during the reign of Andrej Babiš. The budgetary determination of the tax shall be as from 1. 1. 2021 for municipalities increased from the share of 23.58 to 25.84 and for regions this indicative number increased from 8.92 to 9.78. The previous government was very generous for municipalities and regions and it was thanks to EET, control report and already mentioned increase of the reference number. And what do you do? I looked into the consolidation package, but you somehow hid in the introduction that you were going to cut the tax for municipalities and regions. When I look at the numbers, from the current 25.84 for municipalities, you plan to cut to 25.72 for 2024 and to 24.47 percent for 2025. [[Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u25	Mister, that was the first interpelation, and I'm asking you to approach your second prized interpelation. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u26	Thanks for the word. Dear, absent Mr. Prime Minister, I don't know if it's unnecessary to interpel here, it's not you, there's no one in the government, if I look behind me, there's a few Members, but I'm still going to give you my question. Once again, I will look into the government's programming statement that you promise people, and compare it with the facts that have happened here in the Chamber of Deputies over the last two years. You canceled the EET and lost tens of billions of crowns in the state budget. You have increased the number of political representatives, you have increased the number of ministers, you have done double taxation and the so-called windfall tax, which you have planned 100 billion this year into tax revenue, is now estimated somewhere between 30 and 40 billion, and who knows if. You've put energy on the line, but I don't think it's gonna help people. You added yourself, and the proposal of former Prime Minister Andrej Babiš to freeze your salaries was sent to the water. You've reduced pension valorization, you're shutting down mail offices and financial offices. What's next? There are no medications, mostly antibiotics. It's been going on for a very long time. Well, thank God he's not going on covid, because I don't know how you guys could handle him. Next thing you know, if you look at what you're up to. You are beginning to discuss tax increases, cancellations of construction savings aid, increases in fees for businessmen, increases in real estate tax, reductions in the already mentioned budget tax determination for municipalities and regions. But most importantly, you have an deštník against the precious thing that helps people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u27	Thank you again and I note that you will be answered in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. Mrs Lenka Knechtová will now appear and Mrs Monika Oborná will then be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u28	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, esteemed Prime Minister, members of the churches and religious communities of the week called for the withdrawal of the Alliance's family organization from state structures. This was accompanied by a petition signed by over 9,000 people in just one day. According to the challengers, the organization, among other things, is spreading moral panic and mob hysteria. We observe that they are trying to achieve goals that are against religious values, standing in a challenge. Prime Minister, what is the real involvement of the Alliance's organisation of family in state structures and state bodies? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u29	Thank you for keeping time. Once again, it shall be answered in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Mrs Monika Oborná will now appear. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u30	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, according to Minister Zbyněk Stanjura, a government plan for higher fees for early repayment of the mortgage is balanced. The balance is that if the client pays an administrative fee of up to CZK 1,000 for early repayment of the mortgage today, it would pay up to 2% of the remaining outstanding amount of the loan. Without any doubt, this amendment is advantageous, but advantageous for banks and disadvantage for clients. So there can be no balance at all. By the way, a fundamental change is proposed by the government in the context of changes in pension savings, at a time when mortgages are less interested and costs rise due to you. Prime Minister, are you aware that the proposal to pay early mortgage payments reduces competition between banks in the mortgage market, thus making mortgages more expensive for people and supporting other banks' already high profits? I'd like to ask you what leads you and your government to such an immoral proposal? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u31	Thank you. Once again, it shall be answered in writing within 30 days in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Mr Radek Koten will now come forward, who has been drawn with another interview. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u32	Thank you, Madam President. Well, it's not as big a lottery as it is in Karlovy Vary, but okay, I'm glad. Anyway, I would very much like to interpel the Prime Minister of the absentee about the hugely high energy price ceilings. Personally, I think it is time to re-evaluate these ceilings, because energy prices across Europe or price ceilings or real prices are much lower than in the Czech Republic. For example, in Germany it was about CZK 3.50 per kilowatt hour, in Slovakia it is CZK 1.50 per kilowatt hour. [[15.00 hours]] Given that we are completely self-sufficient in electricity production, on the contrary, we are still exporting energy, so it really remains a secret to me why your government set the energy price so high, at 6.50 per kilowatt hour, and it makes me feel like a cartel agreement, so I'd really like you to answer that. And I would very much like your government to deal with this problem, because it is not in vain that the citizens of this Republic write to me that, under your rule, it is a Purple gem. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u33	Thank you. Once again, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, it shall be answered in writing within 30 days. And I'm gonna load an apology before the next interpellation that's run out of time. Minister Martin Kupka apologizes from 14:30 for work reasons. And now we are going to interpel Mrs Monika Oborná, and then Mr Radek Koten will be ready again. It's moving fast. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u34	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister, today is my last interview. I ask you a question about the abolition of the tax exemption for leisure benefits. These benefits are provided to more than 3 million employees in the Czech Republic and have a proven positive impact on their mental and physical health. By abolishing the tax exemption for leisure benefits, most employers will cease to provide these benefits without compensation, as some have already announced in advance. In the end, it can also happen that this step into the state register will not bring any money at all. The negative impact can also be on children. Employees often use leisure benefits to pay for different clubs or camps just for their children. According to the Confederation of Industry and Transport, people with benefits buy rings and camps 4.5 times more often than people who have no benefits. On the contrary, I think that the state should strive to increase the promotion of leisure benefits, since the provision of such benefits can prevent various diseases such as obesity or depression. The provision of these benefits also has a positive effect on the children already mentioned, whose parents often have no choice but to provide them with rings and camps. That's why I have the following two questions for you. Firstly, how are negotiations on leisure benefits taking place? Secondly, if the government has any plan to support and motivate employers to provide their employees with leisure benefits even after the tax exemption has been lifted. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u35	Thank you very much for keeping time. The reply shall again be in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. Mr Radek Koten and Mr Martin Kukla will now appear. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u36	Thank you again for the floor. My last interview with the Prime Minister will be about the so-called recovery package, or whatever you say. But I would say that in many cases it will be counterproductive, i.e. against the goal of raising more money. Why do I say that? Well, because some taxes increase above the normal level, which is common in Germany and other neighbouring countries in the European Union, and if the tax is higher than 100 per cent to some commodities or excise duty, it can be said that the tax will be zero, and instead of what will be collected, and of course it will either shift to a grey economy or it will be taxed in another state of the European Union, but certainly not in the Czech Republic. I wonder if your government, or the finance minister, has thought about it in any way, because the increase in indirect and direct taxes is so high that it will actually lead to a flow of funds from the Czech Republic or into the grey zone and the result of the state's management will be even worse, or the tax collection will be even worse, minus it will be much higher. I think the economists who advise you either don't understand it, or there's another possibility that you don't listen to them. So the answer to that question would really make me wonder if you think you're actually going to withdraw the money, or if you're not going to withdraw it. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u37	Thank you for keeping time and again, the answer will come in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. Now, Mr Martin Kukla, which will close the block by interpolating to the Prime Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u38	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues - absent again - Prime Minister. My final question is once again heading to your government's programming statement, specifically to support forest owners for managing the cruststorm. You know, when the first wave of barking calamity came to the Highlands, we, as a county, helped the forest owners, helped the state. It was during the reign of Andrej Babiš, and when I tell you a few numbers, from the county money to the Highlands, hundreds of millions of crowns went to support the management of the cruststorm. From the state register, some CZK 565 million went to Vysočina in 2017 and 2018 and for 2019 and 2020 it was about 3,000 applications and the volume was 1.2 billion. Now, as you do. You're 3. 2. 2022 as the Ministry of Agriculture published a call for announcements and requests for a financial contribution to support the adaptation of forest ecosystems to climate change. The interesting thing is that the awareness of this grant policy was almost zero. Anyone who applied to the system, even one day longer, has been cut. Payment of the contribution and new applications for this year you promised to take place from 1. 3. to 31. 5. 2023. And what is the reality? I've asked the Department of Agriculture several times, and I've always been told that it's been moving on for a month. Until today, contributions for 2022 have not been paid, nor applications for 2023 have been accepted. [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u39	I understand, thank you. It will be answered within 30 days in writing to what has been said. I am now warning the Chamber of Deputies that all applications to the Prime Minister have been exhausted, and therefore oral interpelations will now be followed for other members of the Government. And since Mrs Romana Fischerová, who was drawn in the first place, took back her interpelation to Minister of Justice Pavel Blažek, I will now give the floor to Mr Jan Síla, who was drawn in the second place, to give an oral interview to Minister of Industry and Trade to Jozef Síkela. However, Mr Jan Síla is not present in the hall, or the interpellation is failing. And we will proceed to the question of the following, with which Mrs Jana Hanzlíková was drawn. Once again, I note that he is not present in the hall, so we are coming to an interview by Mr Tomáš Kohoutek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u40	Thank you. Dear absent Minister of Transport, I come from the town of Děčín, which is inherently linked to the cruise and, of course, to the river Elbe, and I would like to know your opinion as Minister of Transport on the development of water transport, which is, of course, conditional on the construction of a lake on the Elbe, or on the sailing stage of Děčín. I would therefore like to know what steps you have taken in more than a year and a half of your activities at the Ministry of Transport and whether you personally support the development of water transport and thus the construction of the Děčín navigation stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u41	Thank you so much for the interpelation. The reply shall be sent in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. We are now going to interpel Mr Roman Kubíček, and then Mr Hubert Lang will be prepared. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u42	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Mr. Secretary, this will be very short. We have already met here with sighs of mayors, especially in Central Bohemia and in the capital city of Prague, and this concerns the insufficient capacity of primary schools. [[15.10 hours]] Those mayors responded to some demographic curve, however, as you probably know, the construction proceedings and things like that have gone very far for them, and due to the crisis that was here, there has been an increase in the prices of construction work. If I say this for example, the school that cost $150 million is now worth $240 million. I also intersected your pre-, as I would say, pre-minister and he said in some way that he would try to find some resources to help the mayors expand certain subsidy programs so as to increase the basic capacity of schools. The problem then gets to the level that some mayors receive offers from schools 80 kilometers away from the village. So I'd like to ask you if you're counting on this, if you're aware of this problem, and if you're going to solve it. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Education Minister Mikuláš Bek will now appear, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u44	Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, thank you for the question. The situation is really serious. I think we have seen a very difficult situation in recent months with regard to the capacity of both secondary and primary schools, especially in and around large cities. And these two things don't exactly have a common denominator. For secondary schools, there is rather a problem between supply and demand mismatch, where the total capacity of schools is sufficient in principle in all regions of the Czech Republic. Obviously, in the case of primary and kindergarten schools, the situation is worse. I think we all know that, in principle, the current state of affairs, given how long those schools have been building, is rooted in the last decade and is simply related to the level of activity or inactivity of a number of actors on both the founders' side and the state side. That's just the way it is. I have been trying to find a solution to the problem since I started, which, of course, I personally see in the current rather difficult budgetary situation in the use of European funds, including the loan from the European Union under consideration, where we would be able to offer the founders a mix of subsidies and long-term advantageous loans. I am afraid that the period of purely subsidy is coming to an end, and even given the future setting of European funds, we are facing a relatively early transition to greater use of financial instruments. For this reason, the government is also considering the capital increase of the National Development Bank, which should play an important role throughout the system as an institution that actually performs this function of public sector support in other countries. I think the situation here is really serious, especially where parents have to drive first-year-olds 10 kilometers. I know this is happening not only around Prague, but also around Brno. Believe me, I am paying a lot of attention to this, but it is clear that the current state of public finances does not make it very easy, at the same time, to be honest, quick to solve the problem, because the missing funds are quite massive. The Ministry of Education has analysed the needs of those capacities in connection with the development of demographics and migration trends, and I am afraid that the Czech Republic will have to spend tens of billions in the coming years on the completion of school infrastructure, especially in areas where migration has led to shifts towards demographics, which, of course, at this point in time already burdened secondary schools. But migration trends around large cities already indicate the future difficult situation around some other regional cities. So believe me, I'm paying maximum attention to this. I hope that our negotiations with the European Commission will be successful. Today there has been another round of negotiations at work level, and so far the chapter, which would be intended to support education infrastructure, finds understanding on the part of the European Commission. Of course, the question is how we will manage to set up a mix of subsidies and long-term loans so that it is bearable from the point of view of the founders, and, of course, a big debate will be about the terms and conditions of the maturity of the loans. In this case, the Czech Republic would borrow with relatively advantageous European interest. In the first ten years, it would only pay interest and then another twenty years after 5% of the principal. But, of course, it's a debt, it increases public finances. But I think we have no choice but to just start dealing with the situation quickly with all possible means, including national and European.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u45	Thank you and I feel interested in the supplementary question, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u46	That will be very brief. I dealt with the mayors who were prepared for this situation. Those aren't mayors who don't have community money. There was a discrepancy in price developments in the construction works market, where they got into a situation that the municipality did not allow them to do so. Second thing, I feel it very intensely. We know that long-distance commuting actually takes time for students to study, and we need those pupils to be of good quality to bring added value to the labour market. So I think that this really is a matter that needs to be looked at and supported, perhaps even a challenge that you can personally send to those mayors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u47	Thank you. The Minister is still interested in responding, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u48	Just for a very short time. I am aware that better cooperation between the state and the founders is needed to solve this problem. I just need to have a clearer horizon of the use of European resources so that I can actually offer the mayors a solution, not just a promise. So I'll do it as soon as I get a little more clear on this thing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u49	Thank you. Before we proceed to the next interview, I will read the apology of Minister Marian Jurečka, who has been apologizing since 15.06. Now there is room for Mr Hubert Lang, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u50	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I appreciate the Minister being here for my interpellation. Minister, there has been a significant change in the context of your approved lex Ukraine since 1 July and concerns the division of Ukrainian refugees or migrants into invulnerable and vulnerable persons. Vulnerable persons are therefore children under 18 years of age, students under 26 years of age, children under 6 years of age, pregnant women, persons over 65 years of age, disabled persons or, where appropriate, disabled persons. There does not change anything from the point of view of their accommodation and provision of benefits by the State. This means that if there are accommodations, they will be accommodated further. I would like to focus here on the people so-called invulnerable who stayed in the so-called emergency accommodation. These are people who have already exceeded the length of protection of 150 days, now do not belong to the vulnerable group and the state will stop paying for emergency accommodation from July. I have the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs material here that says it might be a big problem, and it's probably going to be a problem. It is estimated that these persons, so - called invulnerables, could be between 30 and 50,000. Given the lack of housing capacity, when these people actually lose their benefits by actually losing their benefits, they can become such as internal migrants in the Czech Republic, unless they choose the option of going back to Ukraine, which would be strange, because until they have had benefits, they stayed in the Czech Republic, and suddenly, when they lose it, which are mostly men, they leave. I ask: Is the Ministry of the Interior prepared for this internal migration? Those people, even according to nonprofit organizations, will migrate to big cities, there may be overpressures. That means it could be somewhere in those stations again and stuff like that. I am from the Pilsen Region and according to the number of inhabitants to our statutory city, where we are the third most loaded income place, so to 169 688 inhabitants we have 4.75% Ukrajinec, that is, on the territory of the town of Pilsen there are 34 309 persons. I'll ask you a follow-up question later. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u51	Thank you. There will now be room for the reaction of the Minister of the Interior and the first Vice-President of the Government of Vít Rakušan. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u52	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Member, fellow Members, just a brief summary. Lex Ukraine V - and please this is not an alibiism, just a statement of facts - from the MPSV workshop, where inclusion in the register of vulnerable persons evaluates at this time also not the Ministry of the Interior, but the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs according to criteria which I will probably not repeat here, maybe I have not yet heard them from you, maybe I have just listened poorly - people caring for people with disabilities, people with disabilities and so on. [[Member Lang opposes talking about them.]] It's possible. I'm not really arguing right now. As far as the general approach is concerned, even here in the Chamber of Deputies across the political spectrum - now I am not talking about the opposition and the coalition - there was a demand to tighten the rules for Ukrainians to pay benefits. There were legitimate remarks about the introduction of a vehicle register. Even the opposition said we introduced him too late, that it took too long. And they were here -- and I even looked for it as preparation for your interpelation -- it's in the stevens of many colleagues from your movement and from the SPD -- a call for Ukrajinec not to receive such high benefits anymore, and if they want to live somewhere, let them pay for their own accommodation, and they are no longer dependent on the aid of the state after the 150 crisis days have passed. [[15.20 hours]] We accepted the view of the matter and the MPSV came up with a bill that defines vulnerability - vulnerable persons are in any event entitled to continue to pay for them by the state of accommodation, and other persons by all the information channels that we have at our disposal, and here the Ministry of the Interior has already given great cooperation, we have sent information to the Ukrainian community about this, including the use of different Facebook groups and the like, that the situation has since 1. 7. changes that new rules are set here. These people have been called upon for quite a long time to provide accommodation or to count on having to pay for the accommodation. One more comment on this: it is not that in those state facilities - that is, in those where they are staying until now those who will be called vulnerable will be able to stay there further - that in those state facilities would be from that 1. 7. these people could no longer reside. But, of course, they'll have to pay for the accommodation in those state facilities if they don't fall into the vulnerability category. And I want to say that, of course, after 1. 7. I cannot rule out any problems with the initiation of this law, but in general I think it is the right trend. And if you look at Poland, which has also been given here many times as an example, the Polák have hardened about three times as much as the Czech Republic. Polák basically say to Ukrainian migrants who have been staying there for a long time: You can no longer be reliant on state aid and you need to help yourself significantly in your life situation. I do not share an opinion which, by the way, is also outdone - because the message you have in your hand is about a month, a month and a half old, and there has also been a field investigation among Ukrainian refugees - I do not share that it will be many tens of thousands of people. I don't think more than 5 to 10,000 people are going to get into the real problem, and for them, of course, are going to take measures of some fast emergency accommodation, but fast emergency accommodation in the sense of really fast and emergency, those people didn't just sleep somewhere on the street and they weren't just somewhere in front of the train station or anything like that. We want those people to really start taking care of themselves when it comes to accommodation, alone, and logically this will lead them to move from some regions where accommodation is expensive to regions where it will be more affordable for them. By the way, Prague's capital has long been pointing this out, so that these people can also move to cheaper regions. I'm sure that's what's going to happen. What we did as the Home Office in the security area, I'm sure you're wondering. Regional assistance centres are activated to help Ukraine, which will be open all weekend. They're not open for the weekend, they'll be open for both weekend days after 1. 7. The workplace of the Labour Office will also be opened in each regional city and the Regional Assistance Centres and Labour Offices will be assisted by the Czech Police. [[Service]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u53	Thank you and with an additional question, Mr Hubert Lang. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u54	Thank you, Minister. Of course, two minutes, one minute, it's a very short stretch. I'm based on an article I got from 23. 6, so it's not so long ago that a nonprofit organization talks about a massive housing emergency and blah blah blah blah blah, so they assume there might be a situation. There's a figure of 30 to 50,000. If it's only 10,000, it'll be good. Of course, I call it any tightening up, because here it actually shows that we may have been more helpful than we had to, because here the material also says that a lot of Ukrajinec, after becoming those who will not be secured, will go back to Ukraine - that is such an interesting figure here. And I would also like to tell you one more such observation from practice that actually among those persons, with those who will be further, those vulnerable persons are disabled persons, I have read it here, or persons caring for persons with disabilities, and we have no information whatsoever as to what a person with disabilities looks like and can be falza. [[Time!]] [[Time!]] [[Time, please!]] Professional practice is starting to point that out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u55	Yes, it's obvious, I know it's short. I have to measure them all the same. The Minister will respond, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u56	Thank you. I know that there is little time, and if we have time for this discussion, we will definitely discuss it, because it is a bit shorthanded here, because you, on the one hand, are also saying, and here we agree that some partial tightening is certainly appropriate at this point, and that partial tightening logically will lead to a situation where people will consider whether they have enough funds to be able to secure their own accommodation in the Czech Republic. Of course, for some people such reasoning can also lead to whether it is more advantageous for them at this point, the most advantageous to return to Ukraine, but, of course, the advantage does not just count financially. Of course, there's fear in this advantage, and of course, the advantage is whether their children go to school here, if they have social ties here. And just tell each other what we're saying, there's a country at war! We can say a hundred times that Kiev and Western Ukraine are somehow not dangerous, but we cannot distinguish from the position of the Czech Republic between the various parts of Ukraine - just that country as such is now the victim of an aggressive attack, the attacks we are seeing up until now, of course, in Kiev, the capital, we also had cases of attack on civilian targets such as the pizzeria, just this week, so the war is just objectively there and it exists and these people will certainly consider any existential need here with fear of returning to that country. I certainly do not envy their dilemma, but, yes, if we look at it for a moment emotionally and statistically, this measure will certainly lead some people to return to Ukraine. As far as the evidence of disability is concerned, this is rather a question for Mr Jurečka. I'll ask him how they work, what database. Yes, I say, I don't have a very detailed idea here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u57	Thank you, thank you very much. We will proceed to another interview by Mr Karel Rais, and then it will be Mrs Lenka Dražilová's turn. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u58	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, Minister, fellow Members and fellow Members, we often hear about increasing the salaries of secondary school teachers and primary school teachers in this hall. There was also a law that provides teachers, but not non-teachers, not operating workers, with an increase of about 130 percent a year. However, I believe that, at the same time as salary increases, we should also be in parallel interested in improving the quality of primary and secondary education education, and a completely separate chapter is the quality of higher education. About the quality of primary and secondary schools, there is quite a lot of information about this - quality, high quality publications, annual material of the Czech School Inspection, conclusions of PISA evaluations and so on. But it bothers me a little that we don't really have something like this so that we can compare the individual institutions of universities, that something like this isn't, and each university basically does it itself. My question or my question concerns whether the Ministry of Education intends to measure and monitor the quality of universities, what will be the impact of any lack of quality on the funds that institutions receive from the state? Except, of course, the coefficient of economic intensity, which reflects the quality in the long run in some way, and whether the Ministry's management is considering how to distinguish a good teacher from a bad one. I am aware of a certain simplification given the time, but perhaps one of the possible ways I see in the possible modifications to the higher education law, see, for example, Britain, which we know relatively well, where the quality assurance system is quite sophisticated. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u59	Thank you and now the space for the Minister of Education, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u60	Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, thank you for the question. In fact, it is our traditional common topic with Professor Rais, because for years we have visited international forums on the quality of higher education and also sometimes conferences on the quality assessment of universities organised in the national context, and I share the concern of this topic. We can, of course, evaluate the scientific performance of our institutions relatively well, and this methodology continues to cultivate - and it gives us some basis for a view of universities, but the truth is that when it comes to evaluating teaching, teaching activities, there we are on much thinner ice, and I think that in general we are looking for more difficult tools that would not be exposed to a high degree of subjectivity would not only be polls of public opinion, but would be built on some more solid basis. However, I think that there have been some shifts in this matter lately, although they do not fully meet the idea of an objective assessment of those schools, but the quality of teaching in universities, especially since the adoption of the amendment to the Higher Education Act in 2016, has nevertheless come to the forefront of part of the schools in connection with institutional accreditation, and of course much depends on the setting of individual universities, how well they can evaluate both the evaluation and the quality of pedagogical work in internal processes. Personally, I think it is important that we reopen the debate on the legal anchoring of quality care in universities. I have already commissioned the President of the National Accreditation Office of Robert Plaga to coordinate the preparation of a material project - so far in a very working version of the law - which, like Austria, would focus on special quality in higher education, because there is a special law in a number of countries that governs this issue. During the summer, we will continue to work on this material purpose. I will be happy to open the debate on parliamentary grounds as well. I am not yet firmly determined that this is a necessary step, but it seems reasonable, reasonable to at least start the debate and there are a few questions on the table. It is the functioning of the National Accreditation Office, the degree with which the evaluation of teaching can also be carried out, for example on site in individual universities. It is, of course, the capacity and personnel involved in the quality assessment, but I think there is a need for increased efforts here - after all, to put the quality assessment of universities on a stronger basis, as well as an amendment to either the existing law or the adoption of a special law, as is the case in some countries.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u61	Thank you and I feel interested in the follow-up question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u62	Rather than a question, it's an appeal, because I share a similar view that if there's an amendment to the Higher Law, or if there's an autumn, perhaps, we could deal with this here. The question is, if we take those patterns from the West, I mean, specifically, Britain, which I know very well, it's basically the anchoring of some organizational unit that's part of the rectorate that evaluates this. That's where I was headed. On the other hand, of course, it is possible that research, which, once x years ago, ended with the formation of the NAU, could be discussed further, whether the role of the NAU will be at the level of the centre or will go down, but the point is that the quality assessment will go down completely. So this is what I would consider important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u63	Thank you, there's no interest in another reaction. We will proceed to another interpellation by Mrs Lenka Dražilová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u64	My interpelation is on the topic of a grant title for personal assistance. Minister, I would like to begin by thanking you for the fact that the Ministry has finally declared at least some extraordinary grant title for 2023, which only deals with a small segment of social services, namely field social services personal assistance. I really appreciate this, because as a person who has a long-term social issue, I know very well how difficult the situation is for those who take care of people with the most difficult disabilities. I even agree with you that this is a step towards the individualized system that we need so much. According to estimates by the Ministry, up to 1,800 persons may be involved in the provision of personal assistance services. What about the others? Nursing services should also be included in Group B of the subsidy title. We are once again seeing that these services are very similar, and in the amendment of the law it would be good to finally merge them, as most regions call for it. Customers who need care for more than 80 hours are already represented in care services. As an example, I will mention the South Moravian Region, where we have registered 16 personal assistance in the range of 200 direct care and 49 transformed care services in the range of 790 direct care. I am very sorry - and this is evident from communication on social networks - that you have been inspired by people from the generally beneficial company Assistance and Mr Krása from the National Council of Persons with Disabilities. Just so we're clear, I don't blame them, they do their job great. I get that it pays who cares, it does. However, in the case of the Ministry, I would expect that there will be enough experts who will be able to correct the pressure of certain groups to avoid creating two or even more groups of disabled people. I would therefore like to explain why only clients in one type of service are preferred, and in the care service, clients will continue to have to fully pay for a higher number of hours from their own resources. [[Time.]] [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u65	Thank you. It shall be answered in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We shall now proceed to Mrs Maříková's interpellation. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u66	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Minister, the government in which you are a minister has stated in its programming statement that it will protect the environment, natural resources of landscape, nature, biodiversity and climate will be a key priority of the government, which will be promoted in close cooperation between environmental, agriculture, industry and trade, transport and local development and after consultation with the social partners. The State Enterprise of the Forest of the Czech Republic cut down trees from the time of Marie Terezie without permission and against the will of scientists and locals. Several hectares of forest were cut down in the Europeanly important locality of eastern Krušnohoří. Speaker of the Forests of the Czech Republic in the media confirmed that illegal logging has actually taken place in the area of Litvínova and Telnice. It was an extremely preserved, over 200 years old beech, which formed the original species composition of the forest. Mining hit not only a unique old forest, but also a local biotope of specially protected animals. Although the forests of the Czech Republic claimed the possibility of cutting in December 2020, they were not waiting for permission from the authorities. The new Minister of Agriculture has not yet taken up his position, the Prime Minister has not, so I ask you: How is it possible that the state enterprise does not comply with the laws, and how does the Ministry of Agriculture, under which the forests of the Czech Republic fall, and the Ministry of the Environment communicate with each other? And Prime Minister, will you initiate measures to prevent forest destruction? Thank you. Well, Minister, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u67	Thank you and the Minister of the Environment will now appear Petr Hladík. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u68	Madam President, honourable Members, good afternoon. Of course, the issue of old forests is a matter which the Ministry of Environment deals intensively with in cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture. I can mention both our communication at the working level and our large negotiations with the participation of the Military Forests, the Forests of the Czech Republic, which took place 21. 6th of this year. It is definitely our concern to protect the extent of biodiversity and to ensure solutions to the area such as old beech trees. Of course, the location you are referring to, I consider it a very unfortunate matter, I also spoke about it this week with Mayor Litvínov and, of course, we are communicating this matter among our ministries as such. In this area there is currently a mapping and preparation of the announcement of the Protected Landscape Area of the Ore Mountains. The competent authority for authorisation or expression is in the area of the EVL Regional Authority of the Ústecký Region, or in the territory of the national nature reserve it is then the Agency for the Conservation of Nature and Landscape of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u69	Thank you. I feel interested in a supplementary question or a response. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u70	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Minister, it won't save the trees, they won't be there again. I'm wondering if you're going to initiate the punishment of the competent person who allowed this from the position of environmental minister who should protect nature.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u71	Thank you and the Minister of the Environment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u72	Madam, you know as well as I do that this is a matter of management of the Forests of the Czech Republic. If there has been an error and forest crops cut down without appropriate permission, it is a contradiction with the laws of the Czech Republic and I assume that management of the relevant state enterprise will result in consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u73	Thank you, too, for keeping time. We are now going to another interview by Mr Richard Brabec, and then Mrs Jana Berkovcová will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u74	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, colleagues, honourable members of the government, Minister, in fact, by the magic of the unwanted, we are further interpelling in the same region as my dear colleague, Mrs Maříková, and I wanted to ask, and I will be very brief, what is now both the time and practical timetable for any further preparatory steps concerning the KKO Krušná Mountain, because the last information in the media took place somewhere in April when the meeting of representatives of the Ministry of Environment and the Nature and Landscape Protection Agency took place, I think in the Ústecký Region, but I know that there were some negotiations in the Karlovy Vary Region as well, and I would be interested because this is, of course, a matter of absolute importance for the region, would it be one of the largest protected landscape areas, and it is clear that there are certain emotions in the region, whether positive or negative, certain concerns or hopes, how does the Ministry of the environment look to further progress in the event of the possible creation of the new CHKO Krušné Mountain? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u75	Thank you and again the Minister of the Environment. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u76	Madam President, honourable Member, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the question. The current situation is that I have appointed an agent for the formation of the Protected Landscape Area of the Ore Mountains. Map documents or detailed map documents were processed, including the design of the zoning. It was introduced to both regional representatives, both Ústecký and Karlovy Vary Region. Based on the agreement with the two captains now within the summer - let's say July, August, September - specific visits will take place in individual locations with individual mayors, always with the participation of the Nature and Landscape Agency and regional representatives. Individual parameters, boundaries, zoning, management and so on and so on will be discussed, and the process itself will, of course, continue on the basis of all the negotiations. I can't really figure out the time range as such right now. You are right that it would be perhaps the largest protected landscape area in the Czech Republic. I have been there several times in this territory and I must say that the reaction is absolutely positive in the Karlovy Vary Region. In the Ústí Region we also discussed this with a number of municipalities and I have to say that after my visit to Litvínov this week, I must say that the very values that the announcement of the CHKO would bring are also welcome in the territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u77	Thank you. I feel interested in a supplementary question or a response. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u78	Thank you. She will be more of a comment on this partly explaining - as well, of course, the representative of the region or the person who lives in the region - there are there, but I understand this because I have also encountered it in my ministerial position, of course, there are concerns about whether and to what extent it may possibly hinder any industrial development of the region, especially regarding the need for lithium mining and possibly the arrival of other larger investors, and there I think, and you have said this, the greatest task in terms of visiting not only the region as such or the regional authority, but the very municipalities concerned, the mayors concerned, or mayors concerned, and the discussion with them, because this is probably something that is undoubtedly the other averted side of concern, let's say, that there will therefore be some new potential obstacle for the arrival of new investors.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u79	Thank you. Mr. Environment Minister still. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u80	I think it has two planes and both are, I think, very positive, just need to explain them. The first plane is really the territory, let's say the upper floor of Ore Mountains with extensive forestless, forestless as such, is very strongly perceived by those people as a value that should not be stopped or spread, and I think that is one of the positive things that is perceived in those territories. The second matter, and I am clearly saying here that the value of the Ore Mountains is in the mining landscape and in the plant and animal communities attached to the mining landscape as such, that is, directly at the origin of the CHKO will be what we will protect, the mining landscape as such, that is, directly in the parameters of the CHKO it will be written that it is counted with further mining on this territory, because when we look at what communities were created on the dumps, on the deaf, on the fallen old mining mines and so on and so on, so it is actually the most valuable of the territories as such. This means, I am clearly saying here that it is envisaged for lithium mining and possibly other minerals, of course subject to standard Czech legislation, that is to say, environmental impact assessment and so on and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u81	Thank you. We are now going to interpel Mrs Jana Berkovcová, and then Mrs Pavla Golasowská will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u82	Thank you for the floor. Minister, I appeal to you on the clarification of the funding and direction of the National Institute for the Research of Socio-economic Impacts of Diseases and Systemic Risks, the so-called SYRI. A total of CZK 563 million from public funds is to be distributed to sociologists, political scientists and other researchers from three universities, whose task is to explore, evaluate, propose procedures for future crisis situations such as pandemics, war, climate change. Why is this supported by the Ministry of Education and not by the Ministry of Health? Even the recent round table of SYRI was dedicated to telemedicine, vaccination and the quality of life of patients. The name of the institute contains diseases, but the published materials SYRI refer mainly to the war in Ukraine, gender issues, media, radicalization of society, disinformation, or the fight against populism. The Institute is to contribute to building social or defence mechanisms and shaping public policy. So is Syri supposed to produce the right opinions and tell us what to think? I am aware that there is a need to promote social sciences. But like this? Is it really effective to finance such projects in times of economic crisis? At a time when we lack funding in education? Do you really think, Minister, that such an institution is needed, even if it is virtual? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u83	Thank you for keeping time. And now the Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u84	Madam Vice-President, honourable Member, honourable Members, the SYRI Institute was founded by the government of the ANO movement. All the settings come from when your government made the decisions. In fact, it was decided on 13 September 2021 in connection with the approval of the recovery plan. The whole institute is a child of your government. You have decided to set up this institute in response to the pandemic crisis. All I can say is that our government inherited this institute as a child, which arose from the situation after the covid, when the government decided to support research in some areas related to crises. The Institute is called the Institute for the Research of Socio-economic Impacts of Diseases and Systemic Risks, so all its research agendas have been set up during its creation and are part of the National Recovery Plan approved by the previous government. Our government has no room for manoeuvre in this to alter its focus, and in the event of a failure to meet milestones, the state budget will suffer extensive damage. So that's the result of the decision that we had no influence on. [[15.50 hours]] On the other hand, I must say that I have had the opportunity to get to know some of the Institute's outputs, for example, towards the integration of Ukrainian children in our schools, and there I believe that this research brings relevant data that may allow better targeting of state support, so I am not questioning the institution at all, I am just saying: our government has come to an end, all the settings, the way in which the institution is managed are the work of the previous decision-making process, and I can only appeal to colleagues at universities who are in charge of this activity today to make the most effective use of the funds. But now there is no room for revision of those decisions, because they result from the commitments of the Czech Republic to the European Commission, which are enshrined in the decision on the National Recovery Plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u85	Thank you. Is there an interest in an additional question? Yes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u86	Now, of course, I cannot confirm or verify at such short notice how much the previous government has set the functioning of this institute, whether - of course - this can be verified, but it is strange that the funding was set only from 2022 to 2025, i.e. for the duration of your government, and clearly from various outputs it is evident that the functioning of SYRI is very pro-government. The material also contains the wording that the outcome of the presidential election was the victory of one of the battles against populism and that persons like Andrej Babiš should not be involved in politics at all, so these are one of the outputs of the functioning SYRI Institute. I don't know what you expect from the outputs, if the beneficiaries have any binding outputs, so far it looks like they're just writing articles and holding round tables for over half a billion crowns. Only last year, they produced 32 texts and about two conferences, so it doesn't seem to me to be usefully spent resources. [[Time.]] [[Time, please.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u87	And again, the room for a reaction, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u88	And so you set it up for them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u89	We will now proceed to the next interview, which will be given by Mrs Pavla Golasowská, and Mr Lubomír Wenzl will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u90	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Minister, I have a question here about the new packaging backup system, when you have come up with the fact that plastic, which is currently what money is available to municipalities within the municipal waste management, will now be collected outside the waste system, and the municipalities should therefore lose this income, and I am asked by the mayors who will make up for this outage. And I ask you, "What can I say to them?" Also, how do you ensure that the people who produce it pay for waste, such as advertising leaflets, and that municipalities and citizens do not pay for it? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u91	Thank you. The Minister of the Environment Petr Hladík will now respond. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u92	Madam President, honourable Members, thank you very much for the question as such. The system, as we have introduced it, and as we are discussing it now on the working group, where there is a very broad working group of all actors, including the Union of Towns and Communities, the Association of Local Authorities, of course all representatives, including shops and so on, is based on three important principles why we are doing this. The first and fundamental principle is litting, which means we don't have pets and cans lying around in the charades and in the woods. The second important reason is that we have to meet 90, at least 90 percent of the collected material - recycled material - by 2029 and we are now filling some 75, 77 percent, but the 15 percent of the current system is quite difficult to achieve. And the third crucial reason is, we're selling the PETs today, we're making hoodies, car rugs, and so on, and we want to get a new bottle out of the old bottle. And now, on that question of community involvement. We have listened very carefully to what the municipalities need and want, which is why, unlike Slovakia, we have suggested that every shop and petrol station over 50 metres and the municipality and smaller shops could participate voluntarily, because the municipality will still be concerned if I don't return the pet or can and stay in the black or yellow garbage can, 15 percent of the unselected advances would be given to the municipality, which would be roughly responsible for the revenue of all municipalities in the Czech Republic for the sale of PET as such. And the second thing, and you also mentioned that there are black passengers in the waste management today, for example, leaflets account for about 35 percent of the contents of the blue bins, so we also want to charge these stowaways. If there are fewer business chain flyers, I'll be the happiest minister in the world, and this is what we want to do. And the third issue that will also be included in this legislative proposal: where waste is carried to optical cutting lines, which, for example, is already in Ostrava, does not make sense of the garbage smog, so many trash cans. We can put PET in one trash can, we can put plastics, we can put paper, we can put clothes, we can put metals, we can put aluminum - all in one, because this optical trim line will sort it out. This will reduce the price of the ride, thereby reducing the demands on the system itself. According to our calculations, after the introduction of the backup, the municipality will on average receive more CZK 65 per capita in income than in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u93	Thank you. Is there an interest in an additional question? That's right. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u94	Thank you, Minister, for your answer, and if so, I hope that the municipalities and mayors will be satisfied. And while we're backing up the packaging, I wanted to ask you a follow-up question because I heard that you were preparing them, or are you preparing the backup of the wine bottles, so I wanted to ask you how you came up with it, and what's the truth about that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u95	Thank you and the Minister again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u96	Thank you so much for the follow-up. This is not a matter that we are now preparing legislatively, that is, it certainly will not appear in the proposal, but yes, it makes sense to talk about multi-way beverage containers - it is not just wine, it can be of course different juices and so on - which are now in the distribution network, we choose them and make glass new from the old glass, but we know that in beer bottles, today the life of a beer bottle is about five to ten years and turns around about twenty times. That means, yes, we also ask ourselves the questions, but we are not preparing such a proposal, but also in cooperation with Mr Smetana in the autumn we want to do a seminar, a round table, and start discussing with this segment of beverage packaging, which is not backed up today, whether it would make, say, economic and environmental sense to come up with some form as such. But again, it's not on the table right now, it's not going to be in the PET backup design and cans, but of course we're going with the principle of circularity, the principle of material use as much as possible, which means we're talking about a whole series of issues in the area of circularity - and of course, multi-way packaging is one of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u97	Thank you for the time being, we will now proceed to the interview of Mr Lubomír Wenzl and prepare Mr David Štolpa. Take the floor, I'll pass the meeting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u98	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear absent Minister of Health, on 14 June this year, the government has discussed amendments to the Act on Medicines, where, among other things, manufacturers and distributors should have a new obligation to create and hold a two- or one-month supply of medicines and, if necessary, release them to distribution. The simplified argument of the Ministry of Health is that the causes of the failure are on the producer's side. To this end, however, it should be noted that producers and distributors do not have the power to influence all the causes of the lack of availability of medicines. The blackouts cause combinations of different factors, often beyond one country's borders. The causes of the drug failure can be found across the entire supply-distribution chain from suppliers of active substances through manufacturers, distributors and pharmacies. Unpredictable reasons, such as natural disasters, lack of raw materials or epidemics, can also cause a blackout. One of the recommendations of the Chamber of Commerce is to seek solutions at European level. As part of the preparation of this amendment, does the Ministry of Health not consider or consider more involvement of the state as one of the measures to prevent or minimise the lack of medicines needed? I am not convinced from the publication yet that the amendment will increase the availability of medicines for patients. In this context, Minister, and I ask you to answer the questions: firstly, will the Ministry take into account the recommendations of the Chamber of Commerce on finding solutions at European level? Question two, why does the Ministry not consider or consider to use the amendment in preparation Administrations of state material reserves for the deposit of certain groups of medicines, which could be quickly released for the needy if necessary? Thank you, Minister, for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u99	Have a good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The Minister is duly excused, which means in accordance with the Rules of Procedure you will be answered in writing within 30 days. Next up is Mr. Štolpa. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u100	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, in the media, I have picked up another one of your government's ideas in recent days, which goes again against the interests of citizens and, on the contrary, will certainly please the owners of banks in the Czech Republic. In fact, the government approved an amendment to the Consumer Credit Act, which would allow those newly seeking to repay the mortgage at the time of fixation to pay up to 2% of the remaining outstanding amount. So far it is only CZK 1,000 administrative fee. If this change were introduced, there would be an increase and people would be forced to pay tens of thousands to hundreds of thousands. There are also opinions in public space that this amendment is a libation for imposing windfall tax and excessive profits tax on banks. It kind of looks like it. The absurdity of this measure is that it penalizes the effort to repay the debt. As this novel is beneficial to banks, we all kind of suspect that, but you're not the Minister of Banks. So I ask you to state how and in what specific way will this measure help people, mortgage holders? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u101	I, too, thank you and have intersected Minister Stanjura, who is prepared with an answer. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u102	Without irony, thank you for this question that I have the opportunity to explain. First, let us go back to the last parliamentary term, when you were in government, we were in opposition. We all have all the amendments and prints that could not be discussed, so the similar legislative proposal approved by the government was prepared by the previous governments. He did not get to second reading because of the end of the term as many other prints. So try to look at the YES movement first - it was the House press 993, the first amendment that your Member made, which says that the ceiling will be 3% of the outstanding principal amount, and the amendment was made by another Member of yours, who proposed 1,5 %. So just to begin with, this isn't the idea of this government coalition, that we've been debating this for years. Those House documents have 8659, that's 3 percent, and 8737 - 1.5 percent. Now let me describe the current situation. We are supposed to defend consumers, but all - all those who take mortgages, not only those who decide at the time of fixation that they want to repay early. At the moment we maintain the current situation, the costs will spread among all the mortgage clients. So when we talk about consumer protection, we talk about protecting all consumers. When I say that there were 3 and 1.5 percent of your designs, there was a maximum ceiling in crowns in one of those changers, the proposal that is currently in the House is 2 percent. That's a parametric debate that I'm prepared to discuss, what's reasonable and what's not. The 2% are the maximum, and the Czech National Bank would do it. It's actually the difference between the lost interest on the paid-up principal and the fact that the money comes back, what they would put on the market for, that means the difference in the interest rate of not more than 2%. If we come together in the debate, it's going to be ceilinged in addition to the percentage and the absolute amount, why not? That thing isn't a Czech invention. Similar principles have, and let me add this to you, Spain, Germany, the Netherlands, Finland, Denmark, Ireland, Sweden. The practice in our country, that it is only for the administrative fee, is rather unique in Europe. At the same time, the proposal extends by law the situation where you are entitled, legal entitlement to free repayment, early repayment at the time of fixation. Today, there are actually two situations in life - when you or your partner are significantly worse off in health, disability or death, you are entitled to it. Of course, at the time of the rex, but that's not what we're talking about, then you're entitled, too. At the same time, in any year, you can actually repay 25% of the original principal free of charge - not the rest, the original principal, so in the worst case, without any restrictions in four years, you will pay off the entire mortgage. That's what we're talking about. And the moment we leave the administrative fee alone, we're worried about something called credit tourism. Finally, we in the House had to deal with a similar life insurance problem in the previous parliamentary term, and we found some legislative solution that limited this credit tourism. So I think the debate isn't black and white, that we really need to keep all our clients in mind. We are newly introducing two new life situations: the settlement of the spouse's joint property in divorce - very often it must happen that the property that is in the spouse's joint property at this time must be sold, so in this case it is also newly proposed free of charge - and at the time of sale if you are the owner of the property for two years. So the range of ways to pay an administrative fee is actually quite wide and we're increasing it. On the other hand, the cost of leaving it as it is, the banks will spread out among all the clients. So let's talk about whether in the law we have to think about both of these groups and balance the instruments or think about the smaller one, because that's a smaller group of people who pay off their mortgage early. Now I don't mean the life situations, I mean the ones who evaluate that they're able to get a better interest rate in another bank that provides this product. So it's not a fiction of this government. Look, I'm saying to the press, it's been discussed for years. The problem, which is, is that it is described in the law quite vaguely... [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u103	Thank you, too. I'm sorry, but there's a fixed time limit for oral intervention. I will ask the Member if he is interested in an additional question. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u104	Thank you for the floor. I believe that in the last parliamentary term there was an absolutely different situation than we are now. Now we are basically at a time when we are faced with a tax package that will extremely burden households, including those who have mortgages, and you will virtually make it impossible for them to do so, or rather you will make it more expensive for them to have early repayment if they are interested in it. And I feel like you haven't answered me enough about what the benefit is to the citizens.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u105	Thank you. The Minister is interested in an answer. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u106	Firstly, I have described two new life situations where the law makes a claim, that is an improvement for all. And he tried to explain to you that these clients can be divided into two groups - those who do not approach early repayment for many reasons - now we don't have to speculate why they do and why they don't - and those who want to do it, and those who are a minority. I'm saying we need to keep both of these groups in mind in our decision-making. Someone's gonna pay the cost. Appropriate costs controlled by the regulator, according to this proposal, the Czech National Bank, and either everyone will pay them, or only those who decide to refix before the end of the period. Because what else is in danger? It may be that the fixations will be for an extremely short period of time or a general increase in interest rates, because the costs will spread between all of them. [[16.10 hours]] I think it's a legitimate debate, there's no other situation. And now that you're bringing up tax laws that have nothing to do with it, let's remember who proposed to cancel the tax exemption on mortgages in the last parliamentary term, and whose amendment - it was the ODS - to preserve it when we reduced it. So it's tax aid to those who pay the mortgage, and you suggested when you were in the government, either cancel this tax exemption or limit it even more. But this isn't a tax debate, it's a debate about who's gonna pay the costs, whether everyone or part of it. The debate is legitimate, we will prepare foreign patterns for those who are interested. I'm sure it's not a bank proposal. In other words, you say that in the last parliamentary term, it was written by banks for your MPs. I don't think so, but if you accept the logic, then in logic, everyone who proposes something in this is being naughty by the banks. Well, try, if that's true, check with your club. I don't think so. It's not even now. And it's a legitimate debate about the parameters. I say, I'm ready to debate that apart from the percentages, the ceiling will be in the crowns, but again, I have to say, those are the larger mortgages.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u107	Thank you. It is now Mr Kott's interpellation to the Minister of Excellent. However, I do not see the Member here, so his interpellation is failing. It is Mrs Malá who is intersecting Minister Stanjura. Mr Novák will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u108	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Good afternoon, colleagues. I'd like to use this space to interpel on Minister Stanjura. I would like to ask him to explain his absence to the government's Wednesday press conference on the tax package and increase his parental contribution. I would like to know how it is possible that the Minister of Finance was not at such a crucial press conference, and beware of this, even because of the participation in Shakespeare festivals at Prague Castle. I wonder how it is possible that the minister responsible for the issue will prefer to attend the festivals before such an important press conference, at a time of economic crisis. I am not only asking myself this question, but also the citizens of the Czech Republic, and they would certainly like to know your answer. Although it is nice and, of course, it is right that you were on points concerning the Ministry of Finance to the Government, but I think you should be particularly interested, Minister, in explaining your views and points personally to all the citizens of the Czech Republic, precisely at the press conference that was intended for this. I wonder if you do not feel that you should be there personally, you should personally manage and present your views directly to the citizens of the Czech Republic, because it was you who promised better and clearer communication before the elections. That's right. If something like this had happened during the reign of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, it would have been not only you, but the entire opposition of the time who would have screamed and left the thread dry on us. Thank you for your explanation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u109	Thank you. The Minister is ready with an answer. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u110	Of course, I'll answer, but the name of the interpelation is a tax package, so just to figure out how the questions... I'm not really going to confess, gentlemen. I really am not. I was duly excused by the Prime Minister. He's the one who organizes and selects the members of the government who go to a press conference. Period. Secondly, the recovery package was passed in the version that we prepared - on May 18th. You yourself ironized how long it was, that it was too detailed. Thirdly, the right moment will come in the Chamber of Deputies when we start discussing this. That's what I think, who wants to beat a dog, who finds a stick. I have nothing more to add. Your interpellation didn't concern the tax package at all, even though you called it the daňový Package. I don't mind. That's all I have to say.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u111	Thank you. Is the Member interested in the supplementary question? It's not like that. It is now Mr Novák's turn, who also interpels Minister Stanjura. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u112	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Secretary, unfortunately, the operation of your resort recently reminds us of cleaning with a vacuum cleaner. The budget prepared by you for this year does not work either on the revenue side or on expenditure side. The prepared tax package, discussed yesterday by your government, is really attacking the savings of our citizens, not increasing demands on the operation of the state. They don't want to and can't save money, and I'm afraid you don't have the coalition power to function as a proper caretaker. Newly set resources such as windfall tax are not filled, so you collect maximum dividends from state organizations not for further development and investment, but for the operation of the state. You absolutely avalanchely withdraw the maximum dividends from state-controlled institutions to literally put holes in the budget you created, regardless of the fact that these businesses will need resources for further development and investment. Where will you please find, as a proper caregiver, the missing funds for the development of these companies? How do you know that the next few years will be equally favorable to these companies? As I have already communicated to the Prime Minister today, your government majority in the Chamber of Deputies is obstructing the negotiation of an amendment to the Law on Payment in the area of the right to a bank account for entrepreneurs. This could bring absolutely real income into the social security system through business companies and also tax contributions, especially in areas where your government at least has such a deceptive desire to engage so intensively, i.e. in new technologies and innovations. Minister of Finance, what steps will you please propose for the Ministry of Finance to act as a proper economic operator, to promote the development and innovation of 21st-century financial technology, and, above all, the companies that run it, and not to harm the business environment in its hocker style for the time being? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u113	Thank you, too. Mr. Secretary, please. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u114	It is a pity that the Member has bad information. Firstly, every month we report the implementation of the state budget. See on the expenditure side whether the percentage of expenditure is higher than that budgeted. It's not, so how can you say it doesn't match the budget? On the revenue side, I have been saying all along that some revenues are not continuous, they are not monthly, unlike some expenditures. That's right. So let's wait until next Monday, when he'll be reported like every month, first working day, results for the first semester. I have agreed that on July 18, we will bring a qualified estimate of revenue to the Committee on Budgets by the end of the year, because after six months, this can be better estimated. We'll have complete corporate tax data, we'll have an overview of what the windfall tax will be. We'll see. We said in the last material that we presented, there were 44 billion in the material when we presented a law that allowed the maximum purchase price to be set, a levy from a produced megawatt hour. That's what we're capable of on July 18th. Then let's talk about whether we hit it or not. In general, let us remember the debate in September - and I do not want to draw the catastrophic scenarios from your performances before winter - but if we want to be objective, at the turn of August and September, the price of the megawatt hour was even EUR 1,000. All the calculations that were known in August and September when the budget went here worked with a qualified estimate that the price this year will be EUR 350 per megawatt hour. Luckily, it isn't. Well, I don't think anyone should complain. Thanks to this, the levy from the produced megawatt hour, because they are cheaper, is not so high, but at the same time they are not so high compensation. On the other hand, we have decided, and we have not been criticized from the opposition, that we will pay 15 months or 16 months respectively, renewable resources that were paid for the entire period of 495 CZK for the consumption of megawatt hours for the household times 1.21% VAT, 600 CZK, and that is within those compensations. Dividends - if you're referring to the fact that I put up a counterclaim to pay 100 percent of net profit, it was more than 100 percent in your government. I have heard Mr Babiš's speech here several times last year, which he recommended that we pay our undivided profits. So is it supposed to go for an undistributed profit that is much higher than 100 percent of last year's profits, or doesn't it? I don't know, I don't think we can want both. To criticize that we will not pay more, and if we pay less, to criticize that we have paid a lot. Of course, you can criticize it, but it doesn't make any sense to me. The difference was 20 per cent of net profit. Last year we modified the instructions that were under your government, which said up to 100 percent, we gave 80 this year because we paid POZE, we paid compensation, we improved the conditions for the housing allowance, it all costs tens and tens of billions of the state budget. [[16.20 hours]] By the way, it is also in these expenses, in the first half will be a much larger amount of compensation than in the second half due to low prices. Well, I recommend that everyone keep the strong words on the budget evaluation to real numbers. Then in January, we can tell who was closer to reality. And let's remember how many budgets didn't come up in your government. It just happens, the numbers are huge. I'm just saying that 1 percent of the expenditure is 22.3 billion. You estimate these expenses three months before the beginning of the year, so try to estimate each of us's expenses in September of this year by your company, your institution, your family for next year, but if you miss by 1 percent, whether you consider it a success or failure when you hit 99 percent. In that huge volume, but that's 1 %, that's 22.3 billion. That's an objective fact, and we should take that into account in the evaluation. We have not entered into any other exceptional dividends, it is not true, and I say we have paid 100 per cent of the net profit, or the general meeting has approved our proposal, but we have a majority there, which does not go beyond the practice of past governments, and that is less than what Mr Babiš has recommended. So we didn't jeopardize anything, I'm sure of it. Yes, we will get about 10 billion more in the state budget that we will use to compensate for high energy prices, because even ceilings are not enough for some households, and they go for a housing allowance legitimately according to our laws. I think we agreed on this within a wider coalition than the government coalition when we voted on it in the Chamber of Deputies. When it comes to cryptomenes, there's a problem, banks are afraid of the operational point. We were like the Presidency, who pushed through and negotiated the first European directive, and they have legitimate concerns that there may be money from crime, terrorism and so on. All banks say so, not only in the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u115	Time, Minister. Thank you. Is the Member interested in an additional question? Yes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u116	I'm glad I've learned at least what the banks are afraid of in the last 15 seconds. I can understand that banks are afraid of something. However, if companies meet all the criteria, the legal criteria to be able to do business in the Czech Republic so that they can participate in development - they are not only businessmen, but they are also IT students who develop systems that prevent these banks, and that is the problem. Okay, well, why do I allow business on the one hand, and on the other hand, I look blindly at banks defending and pushing those entrepreneurs abroad? You like that?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u117	Thank you. Is the Minister interested in an answer? Yes. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u118	No, I think it's an important debate, but there's no legal claim to keep business accounts in crypto-currency. It's not a restriction on business, it's not a modification. We will try to implement the directive that we have negotiated to have something in legislation for the first time that will work in some way. Those banks there are afraid that even foreign banks will refuse to cooperate with our banks that will open it. This is not just a concern about what clients in the Czech Republic would do. [[Member Novak, sitting against the speaker's counter, is smiling.]] Well, we can smile about it, it's a fact, it's not just a problem for the Czech Republic, and the problems aren't small. But ask, for example, the police president and those in charge of how potentially major problems arise in this area. That is why we need some European regulation. And I'll say again: we've arranged it, I've got good people there, I'm sure when we go to the department that we have for FinTech, which we've newly set up, when you meet them, you'll know that they're the people who are rooting for it. I'm saying, I have to confirm that he's rooting for it, he understands it, he has my support, and we're gonna come up with a proposal for implementation. We're no different than that, and it's really an important debate. Today, the whole of Europe is actually pretending that it doesn't exist, and it's out of the sight of the state and its regulators, and it's not a good situation for anyone. But we're not special about this. If it were that the other Member States had it and we were preventing entrepreneurs from making accounts in crypto-currencys, then you are absolutely right. But that is not the case, and it is also a concern that foreign banks will simply not accept payments from the Czech Republic if we keep accounts here in crypto-currencys. That's all I have to say. I think we have the same interest, I do not see any political dispute between the coalition versus the opposition, rather also in this area to make a good legal framework so that we can use the positives of new technologies and not just pay for the negatives, because it is never just one side of the coin. Although it's not a coin in this case.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u119	Time, Minister, thank you. It is now Mr Zlínský, who intersects Minister Rakušan, who will prepare Mr Okleštěk. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u120	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, at the Council of Ministers of the European Union on 8. 6. 2023 you have approved the proposals for two regulations forming part of the new Pact on Migration and Asylum. In defending your position at Parliament meeting 14. 6. 2023 you have outlined how this system will work. Unfortunately, your explanation was not, in my opinion, sufficiently detailed and convincing. You did not mention that the Member States of the European Union, which will bear compulsory solidarity, will pay a financial amount or assistance on the spot of need each year for all of their rejected migrants, i.e. over the period and the previous period, i.e. this amount will increase by an unclear financial amount each year and can very likely grow into astronomical, multibillion-dollar values in the foreseeable future. This would create a constantly growing financial commitment by our state with a possible large impact on the budget that future governments will draw up. This will lead to financial pressure to permanently accept migrants who will be assigned to us in their entirety or in a combined regime, i.e. to participate both financially and through assistance at the place of need and partly by the permanent reception of migrants. I would like to ask you, Minister, if you agree with this statement. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u121	Thank you, too. The Minister is already ready. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u122	Ambassador, I think I'm going to answer your question quite simply and briefly. She will be one thematically similar one at the end of today's interpellation. I was quite clear here that what, by the way, in the original text, when you look into it, in the English text, you won't even find any word "required" solidarity. There you will find "solidarity" and solidarity as such is defined in several ways. There are states in the European Union, there are states that choose and voluntarily choose relocations. Such states are, and we will find such states now, even in our neighborhood. Czech Republic has always refused relocation quotas, compulsory relocation quotas. It was a common position of all parliamentary parties across several parliamentary periods and a mandatory relocation quota that the Czech Republic would be given some number of refugees, which it must accept on its territory, does not contain this migration asylum pact. The second possibility of solidarity is financial solidarity, which means sharing responsibility and the enormous migration pressure that comes to the southern states. Let us call it solidarity defined, solidarity clearly identified, solidarity firmly anchored, but still solidarity flexible, that is, the one that each Member State chooses. And the third option, and here I would like to appreciate you, Mr Member, through the President, because you have named the third very well, and this is technical support, these are logistical services, that is the provision of personnel capacities and so on. Yes, there is a sentence here: But the state to which we are to provide such a service must agree. Well, I can't imagine a situation where we would provide a state with services that it doesn't want, so logically we're arguing with that state about what logistics, what personnel, what technical capacity we'll provide it with to make it necessary and beneficial for that state. That is, I think, a completely understandable context, which is here, and it is up to the state that it chooses from those forms of solidarity. That's just quite clearly defined, and I don't think I've said anything else since the very beginning. [[16.30 hours]] And the sum itself, yes, financial, was set at EUR 20,000, that's true. But at the same time, it will not be paid, and you will also find that in the pact, directly to the Member State, but to some kind of solidarity fund. And speaking of solidarity, the Czech Republic received funds from such a solidarity fund for 19 years of its membership of the European Union. Yes, it was not a migration solidarity fund, it was an infrastructure solidarity fund. We benefited from the fact that other countries contributed to the common European budget and we built schools, kindergartens, roads, various development projects for this. And that's just the basis that we have here, a defined form of solidarity between states. But again, there's no mandatory relocation quotas to give you any amount of money. I think I'm still talking the same way I was at the last meeting that you called, which we accepted, and we agreed to the program. The argument isn't moving any further.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u123	Thank you. Will I ask the honourable Member if he is interested in an additional question? That's right. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u124	Thank you for your answer, Minister. So I would like to ask you, if we are going to provide help where needed, I have understood that there will be some mechanism, some formula that will calculate how, how, what value, the financial amount we will contribute, even if we help in the place of the need. And my point was, in fact, how it's going to be paid every year for every rejected migrant who should come to us based on some calculation, the way it doesn't add up, and that's not going to be just deadly for our budget within a few years. Thank you for your answer. That's what I wanted to ask.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u125	Thank you, and the Minister is ready with an additional answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u126	So logically, the pact generally contains some numbers, estimates - some estimate - 30,000 migrants. That number is in the migration pact and it's given at the same time. Here I would like to draw attention once again, Mr Member, to the fact that the pact and the pact will be valid: he does not even have many technical details to deal with at this time, and you will discover something on these 150 pages, because he is entering into the negotiations of the so-called trialogue, that is, the Commission, the Council and the European Parliament, and there must also be discussion. But that number will be or would be, in the event of approval, set out for each year of negotiations on a proposal from the Commission and after discussion by the Council of Ministers. This means that no one will dictate to us any number without the Czech Republic or any other Member State having or not being able to influence. And no one will tell us to accept that number of migrants in your territory. The situation just doesn't happen because the state chooses it, it flexibly chooses the form of solidarity. And by the way, this is a framework position that I love to quote here in this next interview, because I understand that the procedure is coming, this is the framework position of the Czech Government from 2020. Now I'm just going to give an exact quote, and I'm going to paraphrase, and then I'm going to quote exactly. The position was that flexible forms of compulsory solidarity were acceptable, which is in the framework position of the Government of 2020. Nothing's changed, nothing's moved.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u127	Thank you. It is now Mr Okleštěk, who is intersecting Minister Stanjura. And Mr. Janulík will be prepared. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u128	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Minister, we still have unconfirmed reports that the already infamous tax package of the current government includes in the amendment to the VAT Act also the transfer of fuel wood, wood briquettes and pellets from the base rate to the top rate of VAT. It's highly incomprehensible to me. If you do that, you'll take the poorest people in the country and the last fuel that people still have. One briquette is actually one cc of Russian natural gas, which will not flow to the Czech Republic thanks to our Czech production, and now the irresponsible government will destroy us. Where is the talk from last year's energy crisis, when everyone was fighting in their breasts, that they must and will support domestic ecological, renewable and affordable fuels so that we do not depend on fossils from Russia and other unstable countries that want to blackmail us? Even if you haven't taxed over 100 billion banks in 2022, or over 100 billion or almost 60 billion petrochemistry, you're going to start raising taxes on people and companies in all places - including domestic energy - to collect at least something in a big hole in the state budget. I consider that to be a major decline. Each country stands and falls at the price of its basic energy, electricity and heating. Virtually all Europe's sensible countries have wood fuels permanently at a reduced VAT rate. Especially in the Czech Republic...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u129	Then please, Minister Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u130	I'll pass on the adjective, infamous and valuable, so I'll start from the end. Since 2030, no country will be able to have a reduced VAT rate on wood, so let's not say how much they have here in most countries. Secondly, the aim is - the VAT operation - to simplify the system to two rates. Base fuels, coal, electricity, gas have a rate of 21 percent. Yes, the wood is 15 percent today. We find it right and fair to citizens who use some of those basic fuels to be the same rate. This means coal, gas, electricity, now and wood, will have the same rate of increase of 6 percent against the current state. And we can calculate not now, but we can calculate what the impact is on the family that drowns the wood if there's a 6% increase in VAT. I find it rather brave, as you say, how we have public budget deficits. We inherited the broken public finances, and we're reducing the deficits, not increasing them. And you're giving us a role that's impossible. And if a elementary school student wrote you that way, like he's supposed to calculate it, they all have a five. You're telling us not to increase revenue. Legitimate political opinion, nothing against it. On the other hand, in every law, you tell us: Increase expenses. This is once again a legitimate political view and nothing against it. But you will combine it: do not increase revenue, increase spending, and reduce deficit. And that's not mathematically possible. So I understand when one of the political parties says, "Leave your income, cancel your expenses, and we are aware that the deficit will begin." Legitimate. Or some other political party will say: Do not increase expenditure, increase revenue, reduce deficit. Also legitimate. Or vice versa: Leave the revenue, reduce the expenditure, thereby reducing the deficit or combinations. But what you want us to do cannot be realized. Not because we don't listen to opposition, so answer it yourself. Don't increase the revenue, increase the expenditure. I can show one side of the other amendments to the laws you need - the mandatorial expenses you're giving, I say, I respect all that, but at the same time you can't ask us - or you can, you want, but it doesn't make sense - to reduce the deficit, it just isn't possible. So let's talk about whether your movement wants to reduce deficits. If so, we only have two instruments: increase income or reduce spending or combinations. If we fix our incomes and increase our spending, we will never reduce the deficit. And the last example I can give -- I don't have to spend five minutes -- and that's already happened -- no government can do anything about it. Last year, it's called the government debt service, we paid $50 billion for interest, this year we're gonna give 70, next year we're gonna give 90, and in 2025, 102, and that's already happened. There's nothing anyone can do about it. Bonds are issued, it's just calculated. In four years on that single item, we're going to increase spending by 52 billion, for which we're not going to buy anything at all. We don't have to argue, if we put it in the social field, health, education, armies, security, nothing. So on January 1, 2025, the budget is minus 102 billion. Nothing's come yet, we haven't released anything, we're just gonna give the interest we're gonna pay that year, minus 102. This year it was minus 70, last year minus 50. [[16.40 hours]] Yet we manage to reduce deficits. And it's not easy, you see for yourself what political costs you're paying, we're aware of that. We are aware that this is not popular, but we believe that we simply have to do this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u131	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u132	Thank you for the floor. Maybe they wouldn't be so unpopular if you talked to the opposition more. However, I'm not telling you at all to cut revenue or change expenses. I want you to keep one thing, pick up what you declared, and don't raise the deflector to firewood. The fact that something's gonna happen in 2030, that's fine, but those seven years, these people can get away with it. Today is the trouble, today is the energy crisis, today the country has the expensive fuels, or the expensive fuel, whether I speak correctly Czech, it has the problems. I will read you here: Austria has 13% VAT, Latvia 12, France 10, Italy 10, Switzerland 8, Germany 7, Belgium 6, Czech Republic 15, but after this adaptation Czech Republic 21. Czech manufacturers of energy wood in fuel pellets quotation marks and similarly export to Austria. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] I mean, we don't get along with each other.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u133	The Minister is interested. Yes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u134	Maybe I'll just give you a rhetorical question, but I've already challenged the first performance, let's give the numbers what it means, the 6 percent VAT, for the household. It's a legitimate debate, it's nothing, it's not a dispute government versus opposition. So let's say we know what average household consumption is when it drowns in electricity, right? We know how much gas it is, we know what prices are. I don't have the personal experience, so I don't know how much I'm gonna give today if I'm using firewood in a year. I know that the VAT is 15% of that, so we can say, if that 6 percent is the sum of 100 crowns, thousands of crowns, tens of thousands, I really don't know. I'm offering this debate to see what the potential impact is, so we know. But at the same time - and this is very important: tax policy, I am convinced, is not to be the subject of social policy. Taxes are to be simple, clear, if possible low and social aspects are to be dealt with in the social system, because the VAT rate, which is simple, applies to all, to those who have the lowest incomes, but also to those who have the highest incomes. So I'm trying as part of the coalition to debate with you, I'm going to try to convince you, let's solve these examples of low-income social systems, and not the tax rate that goes down logically, and there's no other way to do it, all of them. That's the debate I'm offering. If I get specific numbers, I will be only happy and we can then determine income, or household expenses, if they drown electricity, gas, in this case coal, or fuel wood. I think that's right because we're supposed to take care of all types of households as far as the tax system is concerned.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u135	Thank you for keeping time. It is now Mr Janulík's turn to interpel the Minister of Válek, and Mr Smetana will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u136	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear absent Minister, I have called my intervention the presence of parents in the hospital, so of course I am referring to what has resonated recently... [[A group of Members is speaking in front of the counter.]] Gentlemen, why don't you go down the hall, please? Madam President...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u137	Yes, yes, I see it. Colleagues, colleagues, please don't disturb us right here in front of the counter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u138	You robbed me of 15 seconds. [[With laughter.]] So it resonates because, of course, it is the right of parents to be with their child who is hospitalized, it is in the form of a methodical instruction, which, of course, the minister runs directly controlled hospitals. [[unintelligible]] For other health establishments established under Act No. 160/1992 Coll., there is a different situation. There is, of course, no binding methodical instruction, but the Minister knows as a doctor you realize that it is technically not very well realizeable, or somewhere it is completely impossible to implement not only technically, but also because you have children, let's imagine, more hospitalized, when they all have parents there, now it's a problem, some parent wants, some don't want. Maybe he doesn't want the baby now, either. Some parents don't talk to each other, some talk to each other too much, and so on and so forth. So it's burdened with a huge amount of problems. I'm more concerned about how the directors of those medical facilities, what they should lean on if they really aren't able to do it for operational and technical reasons to those often very aggressive activist parents, and they're demanding it as their own on the one hand of the law. So here again, I would say something ahead of the possibilities that we actually have, because often it would mean that the course might stop completely. And we know that we have those cases where parents want to be in surgery and film it. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u139	Thank you, too. Minister Válek is duly excused and you will also be sent a written reply within 30 days in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. It is now Mr Smetana's turn to interpel Mr Hladík, and Mr Lang will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u140	Good afternoon. Dear Minister, yesterday you and the building savings banks presented their new operation, which is intended to help citizens with energy savings subsidies. I like this idea, I like it very much, but I am interested in specific aspects of this program or this product. I'm interested in who, or who, will achieve the product, what can be bought and when we can look forward to launching this product.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u141	Thank you. The Minister is ready, so I'll ask him for an answer. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u142	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the question as such. What is absolutely essential, New Green Savings is now just shutting down applications for two months, but it doesn't change, since September all applications will be filed again, and even in the period now back from sometime September 2021 is recognition. The new green savings work very well, the project, for heating, exchanging photovoltaics, installing renewable energy sources, but the people who are more possessive will have saved several hundred thousand crowns, because the measures will implement it, then they will get the subsidy back. And we wanted to make it possible for people who have real estate to be able to pay back, they could borrow some hundreds of thousands of crowns for this kind of savings, energy savings, photovoltaics, heat pumps, but now they don't have half a million saved to make it happen, so that's why they're working with savings banks. The agreement is between the Ministry of the Environment, the Ministry of Finance and the Association of Building Savings, that is, it applies to all five building savings banks and it should work from January next year, in such a way that every citizen can come to a branch, those branches are 1,400 in the Czech Republic, in fact in every city in the Czech Republic, there will get free of charge all information about the subsidy options and cooperation with the construction savings bank, that is to say, what volume of funds the owner of the property could obtain in cooperation with the construction savings bank, and it is up to him if he asks for and continues to have electronic communication, but he has to prefinance it himself, or he will use the product in the cooperation of the construction savings bank - State Fund of the environment. The advantage is simple. He will take measures for CZK 600,000, he will receive them from the construction savings bank as soon as he realizes them, the construction savings bank will receive the part from the State Fund for the subsidy and the person will pay only the part of course he borrowed as such. What is important is it for all measures that are in the New Green Savings, that is, it can be for heating, photovoltaics, taking a heat pump in combination with some such measures as such. The main objective we are pursuing is to increase, say, the percentage of renovation in the Czech Republic. We're renovating at a rate of about 1,2% today, which means if we recount it, the average Czech house is renovated once every eighty years. Experts suggest that it should be once a generation, about once every 30 years. This means that the percentage of renovation should be somewhere between 3-3.3%. [[16.50 hours]] I have to say, we're in great contact with the mineral wool association, with the Hole Filling Association. All Czech manufacturers report that they are ready for the renovation wave. This means that people have a chance to warm up, exchange windows, for example, through Czech products as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u143	Thank you, too. Will I ask the honourable Member if he is interested in an additional question? It is now Mr Lang's turn to prepare Mr Brabec. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u144	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. On 8 March 2023 the Government approved priorities for the humanitarian programmes MEDEVAC and on-the-spot assistance, on-the-spot assistance amounting to CZK 150 million per year and MEDEVAC amounting to CZK 60 million per year. The aim of the programme is to send Czech medical teams to troubled areas, provide financial and material donations for the development of health infrastructure, direct assistance to refugees, border protection and the fight against illegal migration. Gifts travel to countries with large refugee populations and countries facing considerable migratory pressures. I am glad, Minister, that you are following up on the framework position of the Government of Andrej Babiš and that you are continuing these programmes. I would also quote: "We are one of the most active countries, we are consistently helping the most needy countries that have the biggest problems with migration. Thanks to our assistance programmes, we support security, improve the environment, conditions and medical care each year abroad. Specific assistance to people in need directly in their regions makes sense." It's your quote. I commend you for that, and I applaud you for that. I ask the question immediately: Mr Minister, isn't this exactly what the Czech Republic should do with regard to migration? Shouldn't we be helping out exactly as I quoted you here, at the point of migration, that means the MEDEVAC programmes, Help on site? Isn't that exactly it? That's the first question. How will this programme continue, will you continue to develop it? The second question is: I ask, Minister, why didn't you stay at the Council of Interior Ministers on June 8th, why did you hack Visegrád, why didn't you stay with Slovakia? We could've discussed it, we could've submitted some criticisms. You say yourself, you keep saying that it will still go to the Council, it will only go to the European Parliament and something else can come out of it. That's the kind of information we have that's gonna make something much worse out of it. You've already thrown us in front of you by signing something, which I call a disgraceful visa migration pact. So I would ask for an answer to these two questions, and then I will ask the additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u145	Thank you, too. The Minister is present. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u146	Thank you. I agree with that, of course, and in the first part, you yourself indicated, Mr. Ambassador, that we have absolutely a match. MEDEVAC and Help on site are great programs. I would just like to remind you here, we are not following up on the government of Andrej Babiš, we continue to do so, but the MEDEVAC programme has existed since 1993. It is the exhibition jewel of the Czech Republic. Thank God that only governments in the Czech Republic were able to agree that the MEDEVAC programme is important. MEDEVAC is implemented in Ghana, Rwanda, Senegal, Zambia, the Middle East, Iraq, Jordan, Lebanon. Its main purpose is to help refugees outside the countries of the European Union, support for asylum migration border systems of states under high migration pressures, prevent illegal migration and trafficking in human beings. That is exactly what we need to do as a Europe, and I agree with you. We must help massively in those countries where migration comes from. I am proud that the Czech Republic is doing this, that it gives us a great reputation, that thanks to what I have learned in Africa, we can open the door to our business, because in the long term the help and reputation of the Czech Republic is excellent in this respect. That's what I'd like to keep. Therefore, even in those requirements that are obviously not negotiated, we would again like to have CZK 210 million for next year's budget. But again, that's a preliminary request for the budget. The answer to your question: of course, the budget itself is not agreed. This is one pillar - helping on the ground, preventing it by helping those people even to get on the road. That's great, that's what the Czech Republic does. Secondly, the Czech Republic must work actively on the common migration policy of the European Union. If you read the asylum and migration pact - I assume you did it - it deals with the principle of solidarity on 30 pages and on the other 100 twenty it deals with tightening border procedures, better return to countries of origin, tightening asylum conditions for asylum seekers in third countries, that is, in those countries where they arrive. That is exactly what we need to participate in as the Czech Republic in the common migration policy: tightening procedures, better registration, better return, so that those people after the border procedure do not actually get the status of asylumant, which is all included in the migration pact. If the fight against migration, the fight against migration or the work of migration policy does not have two pillars - one that we are helping in the country of origin, and the other that we are better protecting our borders - and yes, we are solidarity with each other in Europe with those countries that are being pulled out of the sea every day, and if we do not help them in any way, it will not work, because it will take some time before help on the ground is so effective that no migration flows flow into Europe. If we look at climate change and so on, just predicting how many reasons people have to leave their country in the poorer part of the world, well, those reasons just don't go away. If you think that by having Medevac and pomoc on the ground, we will stop migration flows completely - we will not stop and we must be able to protect Europe. This is what the asylum and migration pact does better than any joint migration document did. I'm also answering this question about why I voted in favour because I want to be there. I want Europe to have active members, so that we as the Czech Republic participate in the European Union's self-confident migration policy, which is based on good control of external borders, good registration, good return, and that the European Union can also act in solidarity with the countries that are most busy and under the greatest migration pressure at the moment. This is simply something the Czech Republic cannot be ashamed of.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u147	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u148	Thank you. I will once again use your quote: "The Czech Republic has long-term solidarity with the affected Member States in the area of migration and provides financial and technical support." I'm signing. "As the most effective help, we have succeeded in helping where problems are actually faced. In the end, we are reducing the migration pressure to Europe in this way." Minister, I applaud you. It may be weird, but I complimented you twice today. Two excellent quotes. Oh, please, why did you join this now? There's a meritum of things. Why didn't you let the debate take place in the European Parliament? Something would fall out of it, and then we could react in some way. Why did you sneak up on me? Four as a whole, the Four, where are the great Polák, the Slovák, the Maďar and us? We also have some relatively large blocking force. The fact that it's only in a subset - it fell out of the Council of Prime Ministers today, on which we wanted the Prime Minister to return it - that's the second thing. You just stole the V-4. You've expressed yourself for completely unnecessary, completely premature. We don't really share these principles here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u149	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u150	What is it to undermine? Four? I am asking if we would not undermine those states that are under severe migration pressure and the Czech Republic is not helping them. By the way, Slovakia has abstained, Mr Member, from the vote, and I do not know if you have heard a quote from the Slovak Minister directly from the Council - it is also available - because they have a government official who does not feel strong enough at this time to take decisions yes or no. That was a quote from the Slovak Minister. Now you're asking about the Polák. I don't know why the Polish representative didn't participate in the day-to-day negotiation I was in. He participated in the morning part and then I did not see him at the meetings with the other Member States or with the Commission. At that point, I wanted a defined exception for the Czech Republic. If this had not been accepted, the Czech Republic could not have the position it now has at this time. That was a line I made clear. [[17,00 hours]] However, the Czech Republic has achieved through the usual classical pragmatic European negotiations that its position has only been strengthened at the time of the hit by the Ukrainian migration crisis. We have achieved that there are no mandatory relocation quotas, and we have achieved that the Czech Republic is deciding on how pragmatically advantageous this is for it, and the Czech Republic is also deciding on what its position in Europe should be. And we are a responsible state that does not reject solidarity in any European sense.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u151	Thank you for keeping time. It is now for Mr Brabec, who is intersecting Minister Hladík, and Mr Kubíček will be prepared. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u152	Thank you for the floor, Madam President, colleagues, honourable Members of the government, Minister, once again my health, the second question will be on the subject that we have also talked about, I think not once, and it will concern the continuation of a project which I consider to be very successful, I think successful, and, after all, the figures of real interest, i.e. the continuation of boiler subsidies. I know that the program is already going on in various modifications today, but it is a very specific matter to me, and that is whether and under what conditions it would be possible to continue the replacement of the 3rd emission class boilers, because I think that the 1st, 2nd emission class, there has been a significant part of those boilers pulled out of real operation, but I am convinced that the 3rd emission class still may still include perhaps 150,000, maybe even more boilers that are really in operation - I don't know if all of them will be really operational, but a lot of them are - and of course they are boilers that also fall behind from the environmental and economic parameters. And I believe that if the state, through the Ministry of the Environment, would take action in a large way like the 1, 2nd emission class, we would help both people and the atmosphere, because it is clear that these people will probably continue as long as possible, if it is real, legal in those boilers to drown. But if there was any motivation, I think they could reconsider their decision, and it would be an interesting effect for both the population and the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u153	Thank you, too, and I will now ask the Minister. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u154	Madam President, Mr President, it is true, we have actually written out the last wave of boiler subsidies, which is allocated CZK 1.4 billion. All regions will be published by the end of June, which is tomorrow, so the last will be Zlínský and Jihomoravský kraj. However, there I think we will succeed and succeed very well. As far as the 3rd emission class is concerned, I'm counting on the next year we'll start supporting the replacement of the 3rd emission class boilers. I don't think it's gonna be under the label of the cauldron subsidies anymore, but I think we've had a really nice turn on the so-called light - New Green Savings Light, so it's gonna be in this spirit. And so, as I mentioned on the show, we happened to be there together, so I reckon, in addition to the solid fuel boiler or biomass as such, the heat pumps, we'd like to put the condensing gas boilers back into this program. Of course, this is subject to notification and so on, we are already taking some steps towards this. Even for that reason, I can't quite specify the exact time range, but I'm counting on it to start next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u155	Thank you, too. Is the Member interested in an additional question? That's right. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u156	And following what you just said, just to be absolutely sure, the New Green Savings Light, of course, is for some target group, let's say the relatively weaker ones with some lower incomes - seniors, mothers, single fathers and so on. That means it wouldn't be a framework and a question at the end of this sentence, wouldn't it be a framework for everyone like the 1st and 2nd emission classes, but then just for this group, or for everyone? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u157	Thank you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u158	I reckon it would be a framework for everyone, but of course a little bit divided with that level of support, that is, within the NZÚ Light aimed at seniors, people with lower income, higher support rates, in the standard New Green Savings also the replacement of 3rd emission class boilers, but let's say in the current form, that is, with subsidies on the source of biomass and heat pump as such. Honestly, it actually makes sense for me to rehabilitate and support gas resources towards those people with lower incomes. For those, let's say, standard or income people, the support would probably be rather symbolic. So this is the only way I wanted to split it up, but we're counting on it to be for all the residents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u159	Thank you and now it is Mr Kubíček's turn, who interpels with Minister Černochová, to prepare Mr Janulík. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u160	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I'm not going to interpel, because I'd like the secretary to be here in person, and the answer in the form of a letter doesn't seem entirely appropriate to me. This is actually about yesterday's communication on the US - Czech Republic contract and communication in relation to members of the Chamber of Deputies and the public, so I will not request a written reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u161	Thank you, so you downloaded it. The next is, therefore, Mr Janulík, who I do not see in the hall, so his interpellation is failing. It is now Mrs Maříková's turn to interpel Mr Válek, and Mr Lang will be prepared. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u162	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear absent minister, the Czech Republic has hit a new phenomenon of electronic cigarettes, as well as modern toys for children. On the one hand, I support these products, they can really help smokers quit smoking, but on the other hand, they cannot be children's entertainment. We see it all around us, at schools, in parks: children sitting on benches, holding in their hands a color pencil from which they draw at short intervals. It doesn't smell, it tastes sweet and easy to hide it in a pencil between colored markers. A recent survey by the State Health Institute on tobacco use in the Czech Republic confirmed the high popularity of these products among children, which shows more than twice the increase in users in the younger age category. Why is that? Kids like to experiment, we all know it from their childhood years, but while most of us passed out after the first experience with a cigarette, because smoking without a filter really was no delicacy, it is different with electronic cigarettes. I don't know how much experience you have with this, but it's really good, plus if you put a flavor like cotton candy or rubber teddy bears. That makes you feel like you're going straight back to your childhood. I have a little déjà vu, we have dealt with similar problems for infinitely long in nicotine bags, which thanks to the hole in legislation could have been legally sold to children until recently. In the meantime, before we agreed that it was probably wrong, the children were happily addicted to nicotine. Can we therefore learn and be a little faster in this perhaps? Can we in any way protect our children and not wait again for the European Union to save us? Because these cigarettes do not contain nicotine, but a heated electronic spiral can secrete heavy metals such as cobalt, nickel, or lead. They then settle in our organism and damage it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u163	Thank you for keeping time. Minister Válek is duly excused, so you will be sent a written reply within 30 days in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. It is now Mr Lang's turn, who basically has all four of the last interpelations applied for. First of all, the Minister of Rakušan and the last of the interpelations to Minister Dvořák. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u164	Thank you, Madam President. I didn't know I was gonna get four in a row, I don't understand the drawing system, because I'm about the third time I'm at the end of the line, so if I'm betting euro million, I'm rich and I don't have to sit here in the House. I, Minister, have a question for you, which, of course, you will not like, and concerns men in the Czech Republic with a visa for temporary protection. I am a Member of the Plzeň Region. We are the third most affected area in the Czech Republic, we have accepted the largest number of Ukrainian refugees to Pilsen and its surroundings. Just for your illustration: The statutory city of Pilsen has 160 688 inhabitants, from which I calculated, according to OAMP statistics at the same time there are 34 309 Ukrajinec, which is 4.94 percent of the population of Pilsen, Pilsen-north, Pilsen-south, Plzeň-city. I have the exact statistics here and the total of those men who are becoming slowly troubled, we have 15 553 in the Plzeň Region for temporary stays, for permanent stays, who were here earlier when Ukraine was still a classic third country. Before the war broke out, we had 4 324 men in the entire Pilsen region, now we have more than 15,000. Please, they are certainly not all disabled, certainly not all men who have three or more children. I don't understand the way you said last time they said that if they're gonna balance up, fight somewhere on the front line, then they're gonna be released, and then they're coming to us like they're gonna recreate. They'll get humanitarian benefits for 150 days. I don't quite believe it, a trained, trained soldier - the army just keeps it there. We all know that today a classic man can't cross the legally Ukrainian-Slovak, Ukrainian-Polish border between the 18th and 60th years, it was at the beginning when there was a great confusion. Today they all go sideways, giving $500 to smugglers and suddenly appearing in the territory of the Czech Republic. I don't really understand why temporary protection visas are granted somewhere in KACPU and today men who are between the ages of 18 and 60 when they can't actually be here legally. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] That's my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u165	I'll ask the Minister. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u166	Thank you. Here's my prep, my colleague. I'm gonna move a little bit like this. [[On the speaker's desk.]] Thank you. He's gonna be here a long time, and I understand you've prepared this place. [[With a smile.]] It's a situation that I've had a lot of interceptions today, a lot behind me, and a colleague of mine just moments ago drove me to hide my electronic cigarette in my pocket. But let's do business now. I've prepared myself, my colleague, statistically for your interpellation as well. So first statistics in the Plzeň Region to 25. 6. 7 524 men with temporary protection between 18 and 64 years of age are registered. The total number of persons with temporary protection in your region on this date is 28 250 persons. And you're asking me something that we can open up as much as possible as a debate for futura at European level, but otherwise you're asking me something that's just given by the rules of how and to which temporary protection is provided. And here let me say that for those who arrive after 24. 2. 2022, after the beginning of the war, they are entitled to temporary protection, there is no exception to men in European legislation. All we can do and what we can do is simply a rule that applies everywhere in the EU, not only in the Czech Republic, if these men were here before 24. 2. they have old visas and such. These people, the men who were here before 24. 2. they are not entitled to temporary protection, so they do not receive anything here, that is, any batch policy arising from the temporary protection institute. And if they were here before, we can't send them, even though their visa ended in the wartime, back to Ukraine. I mean, the people who were here before 24. 2. 2022 for old visas, they get so-called patience, you know that well because you are in the field, and such patience is issued in the Czech Republic around 8,000. But we do not, we do not, as the Czech Republic, have any legal instrument to not provide temporary protection to anyone who comes from Ukraine after 24. 2. The only option we have, and now I want us to understand ourselves well, is to negotiate at European level, whether in any way for the future period, because it will be two years after the start of the war, when the extended temporary protection, the instrument is set up, redefine otherwise. But now we're based on the rules that are in place. We don't have any other options. You yourself are in the field, please tell me, without having the right to ask you anything during the interview, it is only and only on your willingness to answer me or not to answer me, but tell me, then, what legal instrument to not grant to anyone who comes to the Czech Republic from Ukraine after 24. 2. Does the Czech Republic? We, of course, at the regional assistance centres try to verify, in the context of the possibilities we have, in cooperation with the foreign police and so on, whether the person had not been in the territory of the Czech Republic before the beginning of the war, or to check in the single registration system whether the person was registered in another country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u167	Thank you, too. Is there an interest in an additional question? That's right. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u168	Thank you. Here, Minister, we just disagree. Although lex is Ukraine, I said here that if it was after the 24th of February, when there was confusion, when we were simply not ready for the migration pressures, we had a whole migration policy built on 30,000 people per year and half a million people came to the Czech Republic when we were very solidarity, at the beginning yes. He accepted who had hands and legs, the KACPU was created, and for that is thanks to the municipalities, the government and everyone else. But I'm saying today that there's a gate obligation in Ukraine between the 18th and 60th years of age. The Ukrainian border guard won't officially let any man through the border crossing point, which means the man is crossing the external border of the Schengen area illegally. If someone crosses the external border of the Schengen area illegally, neither the Lex Ukraine can be the beneficiary nor the Lex Ukraine, please, and this is being determined because it is being determined whether he has any transit stamps or the like. There are exceptions, as I said, to men who are disabled, men who have more than three children and so on, they're just humanitarian reasons. That's how it is, Minister, believe me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u169	Thank you, and the Minister is interested in an answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u170	I do. But, Congressman, I'd like to believe you, but we just don't agree with the interpretation here. So let us talk about this - and I am happy to do so - in the presence of legislative lawyers who will explain to you the institute of temporary protection. As part of this, you and your former colleague, Mr Majer, or anyone else in the Foreign Police, will discuss this, that we do not have the option, if anyone can provely come from Ukraine to KACPU, to give him temporary protection. This man is simply under a temporary protection institute until this institute is amended, which can be altered by a decision, I don't know, the Commission? Council of Ministers? But the instrument is defined in European legislation, it has been defined since 2001. So let's talk about this - and this is a legitimate discussion - Mr. MP, please hold your attention a little longer, let's talk about whether to prolong and under what circumstances prolong temporary protection if the conflict of war still exists in Ukraine. [[Member Lang was walking away from the speaker's desk.]] This debate is going on at European level, so let's run it here. That's a perfectly normal and good discussion, if you flip it over to some other regime that would allow us to do more. But trust me, temporary protection doesn't allow it. What would we do with this guy? Didn't we give him anything? Have we given him patience? Would we send him to a country where there's war? Under what legal title? I'm some kind of feeling, we can have the same feeling, we can say, "He's a deserter, he's not supposed to be here. [[Mr. Lang would answer, but it shows he can't.]] I'll answer you in the next interview. We'll pretend we didn't notice. You've got a lot of options, you've got about eight more. [[With a smile.]] Tell me the legal title, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u171	Well, gentlemen, the time for this interpellation has run out, and I, of course, am opening up the room for the next interpellation that Mr Lang has again for Minister Rakušan. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u172	Thank you. I just, because we're not going to get into a regular discussion, and you said that you've graciously approved a discussion for a few hours, there still had to be a modified content to go through it at all, so that we don't get into a real conflict at all, because we could argue half a day here, I would be able to go through it with you, even what I would do with those Ukrajinec who appear here illegally, because that's what exists under the Foreign Act of the Instrument, which is called a ban on residence. But, Minister, further interpellation concerns border control between the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic. It starts bubbling again from the police corps, that for your increase maybe even PR - take it a little bit in quotation marks - that, as the migration crisis rises again, so that it is being prepared - and the departments are about to prepare for it - to re-establish checks between the Czech Republic and the Slovak Republic. [[17.20 hours]] It has nothing to do with the EU's migration pact, with the visa drivers we've been talking about, that's completely, that's pears and plums. I'm talking about classic foreigners, illegal migrants crossing our national borders, passing through the territory of the Czech Republic, especially Syrians to the greatest extent, and continuing further west. I've intersected you here several times when I said it would be worth bringing back the Foreign Police Institute as a nationwide unit. I'm referring to the Security Committee, but the current police president is not in favour of it. I believe that it would be good to reinstate the foreign police as a whole republican force, to strengthen the formations in Moravia, on the Czech-Slovak state border, before spending large funds there again, which cost us more than 300 million crowns. Most of the time, it's really better when you have a person with local and factual knowledge than some traffic cop, for example, from Sokolov, who's just going on some business trip, has no place to sleep, has no place to eat, doesn't really know where he is. So I'm asking you, Minister, is there an institute in your direction? Did you give any instructions to the police to prepare this, if necessary? I'm not saying that over the summer, because it's certainly unpopular given the amount of your STAN preferences, and I'd like to ask if you really thought about it, the foreign police as a nationwide unit. Thank you. I'll ask you a follow-up question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u173	Thank you, too. The Minister goes with the answer. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u174	I'm always so concerned about what's here... Well, I remember, I think it was a colleague of Mašek who said that you recommended me then, remember how they said it in the media: We have long advised the Minister on the Security Committee to introduce checks on the Slovak-Czech border and he listened to us afterwards. I just always listen to you. And in what has a good result and a clear effect, it's usually the way that you told me to. I'm a little used to that, too. Anyway, now you're not giving me any advice, as I hear it, and that's why I don't plan on introducing it. That's the ultimate instrument that we're going to implement when those numbers are going to express some kind of significant increase. Statistical data: as at 28. 6. found during the transit illegal migration of 798 people, which represents a decrease of 6 % compared to the same period last year, compared to the second half of last year when 20 947 migrants were captured, this is then a much more pronounced decline. This May 221 persons, in June 230 persons to 28. 6. There may have been a certain increase in the year-on-year intermonth comparison, but those values are still below the alert level of last year. Another positive report is that you know from your colleagues that the readmission agreement with the Slovak party works much better than it did last year, when the problem evidently existed here and the interpretation of the readmission agreement was quite different on both sides of the border. We are in contact with the new Slovak Interior Minister. Today, my deputy in Slovakia directly dealt with him. We are in contact with the German Interior Minister Nancy Faeser and we are monitoring all migration flows in Central Europe. And I am quite frank here and I am not going to change anything about this statement: we are not preparing anything like this yet, so far the police are assessing the situation and so far - even according to the recommendations of the Police of the Czech Republic, yes, even because of all the circumstances you mentioned, organizational difficulties and so on - the situation does not correspond to the introduction of such measures on the Slovak-Czech border. Just as the German party tells us, the German Minister at a meeting in Petrovice directly at the borders where we were at the common service together, she said: Yes, the figures are not yet sufficient for the German party to consider introducing these measures on the Czech-German border, which is certainly a positive report. And that's exactly what I'm saying. On a direct question, I don't know where it was, on some of the shows, about Sunday's questions to Václav Moravec, I mean, I said, "You're forcing me into the headline statement that the Czech Republic is planning something like this." I will not be forced into it and say only a sentence that if the situation were to be grazed, if cooperation with the Slovak party, which is now at a very good level, we would, of course, be thinking primarily about the security of the citizens of the Czech Republic, as we did last year. And I just said that the Czech side is ready to ensure the safety of our inhabitants even with this extreme solution, if the situation matures. And here I am clearly adding to the microphone and to the ether that the situation has clearly not matured.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u175	Thank you. There is an interest in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u176	Thank you, Minister. You guys often use that we have to listen to each other, so I'd like you to listen to me, too. I have here a report on migration for the first quarter of 2023 by the Ministry of the Interior, so no information from my former colleagues, but just completely legal material. From 1. 1. to 31. 3. 2023 a total of 2,658 people were found in illegal migration, an increase of 35 percent compared to the quarter of 2022. So when we talk about statistics, there's a 35% increase that's persistent, and that's when we were in the first quarter when the sea was raging and it's not as clear as when migrants are starting to run. I will only be happy if we preserve Schengen, the free movement of persons has always been important to me, even if it was a heart thing for me, when we abolished the state borders where I worked for years, but I respect that and it is an excellent thing. But we're not listening here, because I'm saying that if you were to strengthen those formations on the Czech-Slovak border, we basically spilled 300 million crowns there, we solved some kind of situation in the short term, and the money went missing, and today we're going to put them back in there again! [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u177	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u178	We're not putting them in yet. But it really turns out we don't listen to each other. You have statistics, and I listened carefully to you for the first quarter of 2022, and now I'm telling you the statistics for 28. 6th of this year - 28. 6. - in transit illegal migration, a total of 790 persons were detained, representing a decrease of 6 per cent compared to the same period last year. We're talking date 28. 6. It's the material my colleague processed, I don't think I'm gonna name it here. [[Interpelling reaction.]] Yes, yes, it's just that we're coming from a different date, and I'm more current, I'm up to 28. Six, which is the newest thing we can have right now. So I'm saying that the reaction is based on current data, and we're not planning anything like that at the moment. And again, it's completely legitimate, and I think you've had a rather technical discussion about it with Mr. Police President, that he doesn't think that setting up a nationwide unit with the full-republiky activity of the foreign police as such would have brought something to the police at this point, and I think the police themselves have handled it very well. By the way, the foreign police also received a special award within the poll of the Policeman of the Year as a department that was most involved in the safety of the inhabitants of the Czech Republic. It works well, works well and works well in this mode.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u179	Thank you. And in this tandem, gentlemen, you have one final interview, so please, Mr Lang. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u180	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, so last. It's actually the asylum migration pact. There is a huge discussion about this, I watch it on TV, as the Minister and our shadow minister, various politicians are fighting, and the Minister for European Affairs also spoke very well about it on Sunday. They're all working for the Home Secretary. We're all just asking. We, as opposition, were surprised by what had happened, what had come up, that the Minister had returned from the meeting of the Interior Ministers of Laxenburg on the eighth, and suddenly we were signed here under something that we were all looking at. It didn't go through the security community, it didn't go through the Security Committee, it didn't go through any of the House's meetings at all. That's what I'm saying, just like that for the people around here, there's been a lot of horror because it turns out that even at our exit meeting that you had before you went there, you're basically just there. informed, then it was sort of supplemented there. But you still refer to the framework position approved by Jan Hamáček, Minister of the Interior, 20. 10. 2020. And that's the thing, that's the framework position, I've got it right here in front of me, the framework position. [[He's showing the paper.]] I've studied it completely, it's a rather technical text that... We're really talking about some of them, we can quote about certain nuances. [[17.30 hours]] In those two minutes I have virtually no chance of putting some factual things into it in any way, but what you are saying is that the Czech Republic can agree with a mandatory flexible solidarity mechanism, that is only one sentence, but on that page 5, it goes on when the framework position says: "It can be summed up that this proposal, at a point for the Czech Republic, considers it very problematic and contradictory with the long-term position of the Czech Republic. The Czech Republic will therefore endeavour during the discussion to remove the obligation to participate in the redistribution of persons, whether in the form of relocations or according to the responsibility established at the sponsor's return. [[sponsored?]] It is also necessary to focus on a stronger position as part of the negotiations.' Then there is an impact on the state budget, for example, when it says, "It will have a negative impact on the state budget if we accept" - we will pay for those asylum seekers. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u181	I'll ask the Minister. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u182	I understand in some subjects the frustration of the opposition that it did not have the opportunity to discuss, to ask, but not here, because, in this case and on my proposal, an extraordinary meeting was approved, we were duly entered into a discussion and launched a statement of factual comments, when I myself called on colleagues from your side, I followed them privately and asked them to turn off the regime of factual comments, a two-minute quick yelling, and we will launch a normal debate, a normal debate where you will have the opportunity to speak, your colleagues, and where I will not have to respond. Even with priority rights, I had to react so that I took two minutes to respond to all those who spoke here in some way. But here I just want to say that the agenda for the meeting was agreed, and there's no argument that it would be 25 minutes, as you often say at the meeting about the Czech Post Office. This is where the debate in the agreed time limit, the pre-arranged time limit, ran. She ran, if I'm not mistaken, for four hours, and I think we overreacted about what we were talking about in the first half of an hour. So, of course, this debate has been allowed here, once again, and the coalition has voted in favour of approving the agenda of the meeting in this case. And now I... just a few terms: mandate. The mandate at ministerial level is approved for specific negotiations. The mandate at European Council level shall be approved by the Government Committee for the European Union. The Government Committee for the European Union has discussed and approved the mandate for the Minister of the Interior for this meeting. It was a government committee for the European Union - approved. Next, what are the instructions? The instructions are approved for specific negotiations at the level of ambassadors, at the level of delegates. The instructions may be approved either by the working committee for the European Union or by the committee. rámcový position, full development of the position of the Czech Republic in relation to the issues discussed. For example, the framework position of the Czech Republic on the Istanbul Treaty has not changed since 2016. He's going through periods. The Czech Republic's Framework Position on the Migration Asylum Pact has not changed since 2020. The particular sentence you read there, Mr Member, but it corresponds to the material that was discussed in the Council of Ministers - I do not know whether it was in Brussels or in Luxembourg - just in 2020, that is when the relocation quotas were still discussed as such. But the general framework position of the Czech Republic recognising what is defined there, although your President here said to me: There has never been anything like that, in that government, I would never have allowed - well, I would have allowed it, in that framework position of the Government of 2020, and you have quoted it, I am grateful to you for it, you are more objective - it was that the Czech Government accepts the principle of mandatory flexible solidarity, that is just there, and I am simply rejecting - and I am now simplifying, because that time is also running out for me - mandatory relocation quotas for individual states to accept some specific number of migrants. So the framework position remained the same, and strictly formally, if the framework position remains the same, so is the Government Committee on European Affairs, who discussed it and discussed the mandate. So, according to all the regulations in force, the mandate was given and all the other relevant institutions were able to comment on the so-called silent procedure. If the Committee on European Affairs in the Chamber of Deputies felt that the mandate did not correspond to the framework position of the Czech Republic, any member of the Committee had the right to request a hearing in the Parliamentary Committee on European Affairs. None of the members of this committee did so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u183	Thank you. There's an interest in a follow-up question, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u184	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, it's evolving in time. First you went there, you had the government's approval, then suddenly it was discovered that you didn't have it, probably, so a framework position came up. You were based on the general position, from Mr. Hamáček, you mentioned here, now you say that the position of Minister Hamáček was just some narrowly specialized, some of his meetings, but I never heard that from you, and now you're saying that the framework position is a general position that hasn't changed at all, which is why you're just following it. I understand why you're saying this - you just got caught up in some kind of expression and you really did a crazy thing. You have thrown us as the Czech Republic into the matter where we have been, for years we have resisted it, the professional public is terrified of it, you may be proud of it, you may be proud of it, but it is a terrible thing. I recommend one thing here. Since we had that meeting where we didn't get through the facts and, despite other things at all, you are the first Prime Minister, your strength, your Members, we can get back to it, we're going to have another meeting, a very special one, where we can renegotiate this very crucial matter, and it would be really good, not in the form of factual and two-minute discussions. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u185	Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u186	Ambassador, no trap. I'm telling you what's going on here, and please fix something if there's something wrong with what I'm saying. There is a framework position of the Czech Republic. The Czech Republic's framework position has not changed since 2020, so the Committee, the Government Committee on European Affairs, as usual, gives a mandate to the Minister at the meeting of the Council of Ministers for its negotiations. That mandate was given to me by the Committee on European Affairs. And I am not saying anything else, from the beginning I have told the Government how I will represent the interests of the Czech Republic on the basis of the mandate given to me by the Government Committee on European Affairs. [[During the Minister's speech, Mr Lang comes to the counter and takes the material out of him.]] And I am the interests of the Czech Republic... [[Towards MP Lang.]] That's, I think, mine, I'm not wrong. [[Member Lang returns the materials to the minister.]] But don't worry, I'll give it to you. There is much to be explained, Mr. Congressman... [[Laughs in the hall.]] Maybe we wouldn't have to tell each other, but I'll give it to you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u187	Your time is running out, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u188	No, it's okay, maybe it would be educational, here are the concepts and procedures. [[He's flipping the materials.]] Let's do it again. The rámcový position, the Government Committee on European Affairs and my information in the Government, has been discussed in the context of negotiations at the Council of Ministers. You keep saying that I signed something, so maybe it's just educational here - nothing is signed, no documents are signed, only the country's position is determined there, and it's not even voted in favour, but it's just said who's opposed or abstained. That's the procedure for how it's really going. And I had no reason to be opposed when we found a consensus on the basic common European migration policy after years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u189	Thank you for keeping time. By this we have exhausted our interpelation to Minister Rakušan and we have the last interpellation to Mr Lang, Mr Dvořák, who is also present. [[Mr. Lang is returning to the counter looking for materials. Laughs in the hall. Minister Austrian shows from the bench materials: This is mine, really.]] [[Member Lang is on his way to look for his desk.]] The MP is looking for evidence... [[Minister Austrian stretches his hands with materials: No, not really, really, I'm searching, I'd pay you back.]] [[Cheer up in the hall.]] [[Minister Austrian from the government desks: Really no, come look, my...]] [[Mr. Lang is coming to the counter to check again.]] Ambassador, I must ask you...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u190	I'm sorry, because it was such a shred of material. So, last time I interpel, I'm gonna try to remember it out of my head. We have witnessed the new Minister for European Affairs, Mr Dvořák, who said - thank you, who said: "Czechs like smell and warmth. [[Mr Brabec brought the search documents.]] Resistance to migrants is not racism, rather xenophobia," says Minister Dvořák. I was quite shocked by this statement from a person who actually - I didn't know you at all, Mr. Secretary, because I didn't know you at all and we didn't know each other personally, found you on Wikipedie. You've really had a bright career working for a state in municipal politics, and then you were a diplomat, and just because you were a diplomat, I'm shocked by your statements. What smell and what heat? If we are merely asking today what the Minister of the Interior Rakušan actually signed in the context of the migration pact, you have now faced our Mr. Vondráček on Sunday at CNN Prima News. You repeated the mantra that the Home Secretary here calls Rakušan. I get it, you got a seat as Minister of European Affairs from him. You're or you were a political deputy at the State Department. I can see why Visegrád doesn't work when we have these opinions that fly from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs today. But I would like you to apologize to the Czech citizens for saying that the Čech like smells and warmth, that we are racist or rather xenophobic, that we do not know what Islam is, we do not know the difference between Islam and radical Islamism. From a man who has worked for the state for many years and is fed by the state, this is not how I think a politician, a notabene minister, should express himself at all. And then I have an excellent statement from you, or, in my nature, two, which I will tell you, and also for the public, on the supplementary question. I expect you, Minister, to apologize here to the Czech citizens and to all those who do not agree with you and STAN and what the Minister of the Interior Rakušan signed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u191	Thank you, too. Now the Minister has the floor. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u192	Madam President, honourable Member, of course, I am ready to apologise. First of all, I would like to point out that what you're quoting here was not my words, but it was subtitles and shortcuts that journalists are unfortunately doing. I have the exact quote with me. Excuse me, I'm quoting one sentence. Question of the editor: Are Čech racist? Dvořák: "I wouldn't dare say that. They're a little cautious sometimes, let's say. Rather than racism, I'd say it's a bit of xenophobia. We Čech just like our smell sometimes, but warm." Sometimes we like. I mean, I didn't mean to say that all Čech are xenophobes, that all Čech like smells, but warm, but I admit that the statement is unhappy in the sense that it can be used as if I said it in the general sense. I didn't say that, and of course I like to apologize to everyone who doesn't care. However, under this statement, or under its transcription by the editor or someone on the radio, there is quite a rich discussion. I dare to quote something from her: "Most of us don't really want a multicultural society here" - Mrs. Ivana. "A little is the Czech nation as united as in the stance on migration from Muslim countries" - Mr Gran Canaria. "It's not xenophobia, it's a defense of conveniences built by generations of our ancestors"- Mr. Hantr. "Migration unites us. In Bohemia, the majority consensus is not to accept irresponsible people who have made such a mess at home that they must flee from it" - Mr Friski. "I hope you say that to the victims of a raped nigger." I could go on. I've got a lot going on here, but I don't think I need to. All I'm saying is that although I hope none of you approve of this, in our society there is simply a kind of xenophobia, and even racism. There is a very exclusive attitude towards Muslims, which is in no way codified or in any way distinguished from the approach to radical Islamism. I spent quite a long time in Muslim countries, I know a lot of real estate and I also know unfortunately a lot of real estate here in Bohemia. Well, I'll make it short. Yes, I apologize to everyone who doesn't think the way they think about me here. It's too simple, a simplified shortcut. I didn't mean it like that. I was thinking exactly the group of people who spilled this bucket of dirt on me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u193	Thank you, too. The Member is interested in an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u194	Thank you, Minister. So it's possible there was a media shortcut. I certainly wouldn't quote Facebook here because it's the voice of the people, the vox population. We must endure this as politicians, but you have expressed yourself and it has been said on a public air. A lot of people texted me. But as I was looking for you because I was curious about what you were, I found another interesting statement here, and I don't know if it's a media shortcut: "As diplomats, we often had to explain that some of the President's actions are a personal initiative that cannot be denied by the head of state, but can affect our direction," Dvořák said, saying that he had a big problem in his diplomatic role with the person of Prime Minister Andrej Babiš of the ANO movement. "They look at you a little bitterly or through their fingers, because if you serve such a government, who knows what character you are. It's a thing that made me very depressed." That's what you said when you were under the government - under Minister Stropnický - in our first government was the Consul General of New York. If it irritated you so much, why didn't you take the position? And then one more thing, and that's why this Visegrád puts it in my context. Again, Dvořák says: "We must preserve" a clean shield. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] We are under fire, under the dirt of what the Orbánův regime is doing in Hungary." [[Time!]] That's enough for me!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u195	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u196	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for taking the time to look up my remarks. I appreciate it very much. As for my evaluation of the government service led by Andrej Babiš, I have nothing to change after all these years. As far as our relationship with the Visegrad Four is concerned, I could develop it, but basically, even if it was also very unhappy, it contains what I think is unfortunate, that it happened at a certain stage of our political development that Viktor Orbán's views were issued for the views of the Vé 4 and therefore also for the opinions of the Czech Republic, which was not true even then, and fortunately today we all see that the difference between our position and the Hungarian position is quite fundamental. When you asked me a personal question, why did I serve if I didn't agree to it? Yes, you're right, I retired for three years, and what would I do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u197	Thank you and I note that for today's meeting, we have closed the oral discussions. I remind you that at 6 p.m., there will be a continuation of paragraph 62. And before I interrupt the meeting until 6:00 p.m., I will apologize: Mrs Adámková Věra apologizes from 18.15 for health reasons, Mrs Babišová Andrea from 18:00 for personal reasons, Mrs Válková Helena from 18:00 to 19:00 for work reasons, Mr Volný from 14:30 for health reasons, and Minister Baxa Martin from 16.50 for work reasons. I am now interrupting this meeting within 18 hours, when we will proceed with paragraph 62.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-003-120.u198	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to continue with the adjourned paragraph of the 70th session of the Chamber of Deputies, which we have interrupted today, 29. 6. This was a point.
