ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-061-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 61st session of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to record our participation, I'm going to check you out first and ask you all to sign up with ID cards. The replacement cards and their numbers apply as they were said to be 54, 58, 59 and 60. schůze. This meeting was convened by the President of the Chamber of Deputies pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure, at the request of 54 Members. The invitation was sent to you by e-mail on Friday 3 March of this year. We shall first proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we appoint a Member of Barbora Urbanová and a Member of Ondřej kolář. Does anyone else have a suggestion? He doesn't. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's 61 for these verifiers? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 1, 152 Members and Members registered, for proposal 149, against no one. I note that we have appointed a Member of the Chamber of Deputies, Barbora Urbanová, and a Member of Ondřej kolář, as verifiers of the 61st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. We will now proceed to the establishment of the 61st meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. I would remind you that even in this case, pursuant to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. No amendment or addition to the programme can be proposed, nor can the approved programme be extended. Even in this case, I'm registering several applications with priority rights. Mr. Jakub Michálek is the first to sign in - he withdraws his application, thank you. Mr Karel Havlíček will be next in line. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-061-01-000-000.u2	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, we are unlearned. Before we reach Euro Seven, we need to show all the correlations, because unfortunately it all fits negatively. Do you remember how Prime Minister Fiala claimed at the end of 2021 that the termination of combustion engines for new cars after 2035 was unacceptable? Six months later, our ministers, namely the Minister of the Environment, voted in favour of ending them. Yes! She didn't even have the courage to stand up to those few countries that were against it at the time. Impacts quite clear, it immediately manifests in car prices for customers. Not until 2035, but now, because, of course, innovation has to pay for something. This will undoubtedly threaten the supplier-customer relations of the entire industry, which is linked to the automotive industry, because remember that we have around thousands of entrepreneurs, businesses, companies that are linked to the automotive industry, which makes up 10 percent of GDP, 24 percent of our exports and employs indirectly up to half a million workers. Absolutely illogically, hybrids will end, I mean the sale of new cars as hybrids. No one understands and paradoxically it doesn't help the environment twice, because instead of buying cars for internal combustion engines in 2036, 2037, 2038 which are already very environmentally friendly, they will quickly be used and bought cars old, which was made long before that. Let us not forget that there is one other thing, and that is public transport, buses and the like. In 2030 the end to internal combustion engines, which will mean a transition, which is probably a good thing for busses and devices based on new technologies, like hydrogen, but beware, that means that they will also be significantly more expensive at that time, and this will immediately reflect on the price of the fare. In any case, all these impacts, and it's important to say, are upside-down. What's one of the bigger problems today? One of the biggest problems is fighting inflation. What have we done for this? Nothing. "We will strive to increase the number of emission allowances, which will lead to a reduction in their price." We'd sign for it immediately, that's the government's promise. Reality within our Presidency of the European Union, the Czech Republic led - well heard - initiatives that have done exactly the opposite, and from 2024 the number of emission allowances will be reduced, which means that the price will increase. Once again, not only the Czech but European industry is at risk. Of course, as one of the most industrialized countries, the Czech Republic will take even more, and logically it will affect product prices, it will affect energy prices. In many cases, we are doing completely illogical measures here, which will de facto mean that emissions will only be exported to Turkey or other countries, for example. It's very typical in steel production. We are shutting down the steel industry here in Europe, but we do not have lower steel consumption, whether in construction or in the automotive industry. And where are we taking her, the steel? Well, from other countries. And if someone says the argument, but we stop them from doing it by raising their prices, that means we're going to make some barriers to entry and so on, customs, so of course that's a way to do it. But beware, on the other hand, there will be a great lobbying, especially for the automotive industry, which has always advocated that this was not the case. And even if it does, prices will rise again. In other words, it is once again an upside-down character. And we're not even talking about how it's gonna end up with the end customers. "We will take into account the possible social and economic impacts and the specific conditions of the Czech Republic when negotiating specific measures in the European Union." This is, please, my dear government, from your programming statement. Well, there's nothing you can say about that! The reality is, however, that the Czech Republic was also the head of the peloton of countries that supported the extension of emission payments, namely for emission allowances, i.e. for households, in terms of heating, or in terms of the use of cars on internal combustion engines. Once again, upside step at a time when all means are to be combated by inflation. "When discussing regulatory proposals by the government" - I read from your statement again - "we will thoroughly assess the impacts on industry, but also the entire economy of the Czech Republic and take into account the specifics of individual sectors." Well, I don't know what we were thinking at a time when the European Commission - it wasn't our initiative to present this objective - in November 2022, that crazy Euro 7 standard, I suspect, after about three, maybe almost four years of hesitation. We can speculate why she just did it in the framework of our Presidency, but in any case, she submitted it. We spoke very loudly, for which it is necessary to thank Minister Kupek, but only in February 2023, three months after we praised ourselves, how well we managed the Presidency of the European Union, and after the European Commission, namely Frans Timmermans, distinguished us before the enlisted unit, saying that we were exemplary in this. Once again, the inflationary nature of the decision is clear, and we all know the consequences, threatening the production of small and medium-sized cars. And if it were produced at all, under significantly different conditions, in other words, significantly more expensive, up to tens of thousands of crowns on one vehicle. With Fabie, it could be CZK 500,000 plus minus in the basic version, somewhere the discussion of about CZK 120,000. In other words, no one would buy it. Totally illogical decision! Why don't we go with Euro Six, for God's sake? Similarly in 2035 and thanks to the Czech Republic, cars for internal combustion engines are likely to end if there is no change, which is now initiated. Why in God's name will the Euro Seven still be introduced? The Euro Six could have done it without a problem by 2035. And what are the implications? They are clear, again at car prices, but beware of up to 50,000 endangered jobs, and again of an upside-down nature. [[17.40 hours]] We can move on - energy buildings. Not only in 2050 as an old building, but already in 2033 it will have to meet a large number of existing buildings, not entirely, but there must already be some balance within the Czech Republic on the so-called nationwide average, which means that there will already have to be some substantial investment measures. New buildings 2027, 2028, whether public, later even family houses, apartments, everything already within energy clean buildings, which, of course, will mean increased costs. But maybe I'd be a little above things here, because I'll admit that at some point, of course, it'll come back to those owners. What's true is that it's too soon, or the pressure is that there's nothing else left. If it was motivated, I'd understand it more. The new Minister of the Environment, I say, almost Minister Hladík hasn't even gotten his mind on it yet, but he's already confirmed that the diversion from coal will be in 2033. Fine. Based on what facts, what data? Why is it not based on the conclusions of a coal commission that has been sitting for two years? Among other things, there were representatives of the opposition at the time - very reasonable people. 2038 was after two years of negotiations and the presentation of dozens of different scenarios and huge amounts of data based on what new resources we will have here, how old resources will be shut down, how the core will be built, how new green resources will be invested and so on, and it was based on the fact that we cannot soon become dependent on import, because there will be a threat of a lack of energy, because other countries will go along a similar path and logically become less and less self-sufficient. Simple math, why don't we get out of it? Why does the Cheps have to put us in line at this point? Not us, but the government, to be exact, and their conclusion is clear. If we go the way of the Fialův Government, the electricity import will be extremely expensive, and worse, he's not going to get from where. So if you don't take the opposition seriously anymore, please, at least take seriously the energy experts. ČEPS is a state organization, they are not idealists, they are reasonable people who have it well calculated, and finally their evidence was the basis for how the coal commission decided. Among other things, you haven't called it in a year and a half, not even once. I was surprised by Minister Bek's argument for the European Union when I was in a discussion duel with him, when he quite factually acknowledged that this environmental measure within the European Union had been taken perhaps surprisingly, but his argument was: We had to do this because Sweden would be behind us, and that would make it even worse. Well, that's quite an interesting argument. But what did Sweden do? Under his jurisdiction, we began to discuss what we strictly rejected, that is almost impossible, and this is a re-hocking decision on the end of cars on internal combustion engines in 2035. Yes, it's the synthetic engines and so on, I don't want to go into detail. But anyway, why didn't it start for us? And why haven't we joined the four countries to this day, if I have the latest information from yesterday's Política, which is Germany, Italy, Bulgaria and Poland? I hope we can join them, at least I have signals from the government that could happen. It hasn't happened yet, so we urge you to do so. In general, we are joining a green policy where it seems to me that we are going head-to-head against the green wall, because it is completely absurd what is beginning to happen here. According to the latest information, Volkswagen has decided or decided not to eventually build gigafactory in countries like the Czech Republic or Europe or Eastern Europe, but to invest it in the United States. Please, let's just figure out what that means. Europe is destroying its industry. It destroys it in order to achieve more quickly the green ambitions for a key European society, the largest car manufacturer, ultimately the investments that are linked to the green economy, which is undoubtedly pure mobility, to make this investment in the United States. Does that seem normal to us? And we're still nodding this? I know you're going to say it doesn't seem normal to us, we didn't nod to this, we wanted gigafactory to be here, and I don't want to discuss the location where it's supposed to stand and not stand. And basically, we also encourage gigafactors to be here. But why did we take all these measures within the framework of our Presidency? After all, we set an example, and we were still praised for it. Why does it happen like that? Yes, you can say it's because they're giving them gigantic incentives in America, you're right. But at the same time, it is because European industrial firms have gotten completely cornered because we have scrambled them with these green measures so that at the moment there are such extreme costs for them in Europe that they are looking at investing elsewhere, whether in Asia or in the United States. And that's the wrong thing to do. That is what we are always saying here is that there is a loss of competitiveness in European industry. And I would just like to ask, please, Prime Minister, for all of our various arguments that we have, I personally considered you to be a person who, in particular, was rationally contemplating in this area. When I put on what you said a few years ago, it gave back in this area, I say again, in my opinion, quite head and heel. Why did you turn around now? Why are you defending various activist and progressive ideas as Prime Minister? Why don't your ministers act according to the promise you made, which means you won't? And I would understand it if you said, At least we tried, but we were outvoted. But you voted against! Why do you let it get so far that we're trained by greener Švéd who do strange activities or who push to make it less climate- brutal? And why don't you put quite rational people in my view, and specifically from your side, from ODS, Mr Zahradník - a very reasonable man, was a member of the coal commission, he even suggested a coal diversion even longer, but I must say that he had it in his head calculated and that his arguments gave logic, made sense - Mr Zahradil from the European Union, or therefore from the European Parliament, Mr Vondra, Mr Skopeček here from Parliament, Mr Král, and I would certainly find more. I don't know if you're prepared to sacrifice all this just to keep a five-calice. It seems to me to be too much of a tax, don't be mad at me, Prime Minister, and I don't take the argument that we stood at Green Deal. You know very well that Green Deal has brought us tens, if not hundreds of billions of crowns, and that if we had not agreed to this framework, it would have been far worse for us. But what is important is that we negotiated there at the time just that different countries may have different conditions and that it will not be averaged so that it must reach all countries strictly for 2030, 2050. But what's happening now, it's given by the script, someone calls it Fit for 55, but whatever, it's given by the implementing mechanism, and that's where you are. This implementing mechanism was rejected by us in the autumn of 2021, fortunately by the Senate, and this is how it went to the European Union. You inherited this and you could work with it. Unfortunately, all the measures you have taken under your Presidency in this climate-energy-economic area have gone precisely in favour of this crazy green path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-061-01-000-000.u3	Thank you, too. Next up, President Tomio Okamura, Minister Martin Kupka will be prepared with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-061-01-000-000.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, we have here an opposition meeting on Economic and Social Impacts of the introduction of Euro 7 into the industry of the Czech Republic. Even a total layman must see that the design of a standard that tightens the limits for CO2 emissions or even for emissions that make tyres on the road is a complete idiocy beyond any normal reason. This standard is promoted by the Purple Government and also actively promoted, actively voted for and actively supported by the Purple Government during the Presidency of the Czech Republic of the European Union in the second half of last year. The Fialův Government thus directly damaged the Czech economy, the Czech industry and endangered jobs in the Czech Republic. This standard has no logic or justification in any plane and its result and obvious aim is only to liquidate the existing automotive industry, which is one of the most important economic pillars of the Czech Republic. And as I said before, the result is and will be another increase in cars, a deterioration in the availability of cars for our citizens, a threat to the economy of the Czech Republic and a threat to a large number of jobs in the Czech Republic. This standard from the European Union is only a pre-emption of the total ban on internal combustion engines in the European Union and does not bring any positive effect in practice for the Czech Republic. None! [[17.50 hours]] I've mentioned a hundred times here the fact that we're developing cancer in all countries, and it's not just a higher life span, on the contrary. The incidence of cancer is growing in still younger years, it appears in children, where once upon a time, cancer was virtually unknown and utter excess. What is it? Yes, we have an ever worse environment, only politicians close their eyes to it. We are surrounded, for example, by millions of tons of plastics that decompose on microparticles, which have infected air and water, but also all living organisms and circulate in us. Except for the exceptions, how they affect us and our lives, no one examines and deals. We have plastics poisoned by the river and the sea all over the planet. Anybody working on that? Except for a few enthusiasts, no one cares, but Brusel and the Fialův government just leaned into soda gas. Nothing can be more characteristic of your beloved European Union than complete idiocy, rather than pointless solutions and not solving really serious problems. The old saying goes, "Give assholes a job and he'll come up with a paper." You've given the brussels function, and they're in holy enthusiasm that they're masters of Europe, inventing thousands of papers, one more useless than the other. What is worse, they are destroying the economy, destroying the free opinion, destroying businesses, citizens, and European states. Austria-Hungary, a picture of a centralized European supranational monarchy, used to be synonymous with bureaucracy and centralism. In fact, when we compare bureaucracy, the old Austria's guidelines and regulations, it is from today's point of view an island of freedom, which has evolved in exactly the opposite direction from Brussels. He was gradually moving towards decentralization, greater freedom and sovereignty of national states, and greater human and civil freedoms. But you, ladies and gentlemen, both from Fialův's five-wheeler and the YES movement, are cheering over Brussels, which is heading towards the opposite - you want more centralization, less national sovereignty, less personal, human and national freedoms. Please listen to what I'm telling you. I'm saying you want more centralization, less national sovereignty, less personal, less human and national freedoms. Where do you think you're going? You reject democracy, you don't like freedom of speech, you don't like the opportunity for people to rule themselves, you reject the control of citizens themselves, you reject all of you, how you are here, outside the SPD, a real democracy, which is for your information a system in which people rule, not any defined elite. That's why it's called democracy. Demo is a people, and Crap means power or government of the people. You, as the last person in Europe, are defending the bill of referendums so that citizens cannot control you just so that the people to whom this country really belongs cannot rule here. Crazy things, such as the standards dictated from Brussels, are only here because there is no democracy. If democracy prevails both in Brussels and in our country, the citizens will send you with your fantasy, how to put it politely... they will send you to Brussels, which is why you do not want democracy. In a democracy today, people would be collecting signatures for a referendum after the squares, and tomorrow, in a referendum, your anti-constitutional law on robbing pensioners would have cancelled the promised valorisation in the referendum, and this government would have been called off by Petr Fiala. Yes, in a democracy you would not survive politically, because one thing is to lie to citizens every four years and then do the opposite of what you promised, and another thing is when a citizen has the power and the right to really enforce your promises. Do our citizens want a ban on internal combustion engines? Do they want another standard from Brussels, which will destroy the Czech automotive industry, destroy jobs and make their cars and transport expensive? Ask yourself, do our citizens want it? Do the real owners and masters of this country and the Republic want it? They don't want to, you know, so why are you promoting it? Why do you advocate or tolerate something in Brussels for which your MEPs, your gangs, have never voted for what none of your partners, except perhaps half-crazy pirát, have a mandate from voters? The rhetorical exercises do not stand before the Czech media. In the European Commission, the Czech Republic has Vice-President Mrs Jourová of the ANO movement, which is a direct part of the government and the leadership of the European Union, which is pushing us in the first place with nonsense and totalitarianism, including this standard. Similarly, by the way, MEPs behave for the ANO Charanzová movement and, with the exception of light exceptions, such as MEPs of the SPD, there are other deranged excerpts from other parties who are actively helping in Brussels with the liquidation of Europe and the Czech Republic. At one point, it occurred to me that cows and pigs in Europe may produce more CO2 than cars. Then why don't you ban them, too? But your guys in Brussels are such that this idea is not a joke, because your Union is, of course, preparing for this next crazy move to ban or restrict livestock farming. And that's why the Purple government is planning projects today, as we saw, how to take people's pork and beef and trade it for bugs and worms. On live air, we are experiencing the realization of ideas that would have sent you to Chocholoušek 20 years ago. The worst part is not that you promote insanity and harmful wickedness, but the most terrible thing is that you are aware that you are promoting wickedness, so you are trying to suppress freedom of expression, freedom of opinion, the right to objective information that you are financing false propaganda and combating democracy. After all, we saw this here a moment ago, when the President of the House, Fialová Adamová, of the TOP 09 here, defined the situation in the Czech Post office, which, under your leadership, is going to insolvency, whether there are other hot topics that we have been discussing here, so you've defined 30 minutes just for the opposition meeting, so that you can't talk about it so that you can keep these problems quiet. You are promoting totalitarianism day in and day out and, unfortunately, whether it is a government and a government coalition past or present. During the covid, both Babišův's previous and current Fialův, both governments took illegal and unconstitutional measures, which subsequently, as illegal, unconstitutional, were disturbing the courts, but no one was responsible for totalitarian illegal decisions and carried them, and that excited you. It saddens me because EU standards are only the result of evil, and the evil is that we do not have democracy here, we do not have a free public debate and citizens have no way of stopping your harmful decisions. That's the way to hell. Austria-Hungary finally fell apart and nothing else I believe awaits even your pious Brussels, but it will take us all and it will hurt us all because every revolution hurts. It is an immense shame, because common sense and more democracy would suffice, nothing more. And I wanted to call on Fialův's five-police government leader with the ODS again, because, of course, this standard is in charge of Minister Kupka of the ODS, which was originally supposed to be some party that defends conservative values, but that's a normal liberal pro-brussels party, we all see that, there's nothing conservative about her at all. You bow to Brussels and you don't give a damn about conservative values anymore, you don't defend them here, we all see that. That's betrayal, betrayal on all the original voters, and they've already largely left 30 percent at the time. This means that I have to say that I repeat again and I would like to call on the government coalition to approve the programme of this extraordinary meeting, because this Euro 7 standard really is another threat to availability, and for our citizens the threat to the economy of the Czech Republic, there is a risk of an increase in cars, which is already happening because of Green Deal a long time ago, the cars have become significantly more expensive. Due to the Euro 7 standard, according to the survey, the car price will be on average CZK 100,000 more per car. And of course, there is also a threat to a large number of jobs, not only the direct ones in the automotive industry for car manufacturers in the Czech Republic, but (i) for subcontractors chains. [[18.00 hours]] So I would like to invite you to this extraordinary meeting so that you don't waste this opposition emergency meeting as it is your custom, but to allow you to discuss it here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-061-01-000-000.u5	Good evening. We took turns managing the meeting, so hello, everyone. The Minister of Transport Martin Kupka will perform next with priority rights. Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-061-01-000-000.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first only a brief response to Tomio Okamura's speech. He was talking about betrayal - so here he committed a very clear betrayal of common sense and showed that he no longer cared about how things really were. I could open an office here to set his lies straight, and I'll mention one that would really have to piss off anyone who reads some basic information and reports. He mentioned that the Czech Republic supported and promoted the Euro 7 and that the Fialův Government had done so. Lie like a tower. It was Petr Fiala's government that was one of the first in the European Union to clearly oppose Euro 7 and not only to clearly oppose it, but at the same time to develop negotiations at European level in order to obtain the strongest possible support for its position from Member States - Germany, Italy, France, Romania, Poland, the Slovak Republic and others - and those negotiations, I firmly believe, will end successfully for the Czech Republic and for the European Union. I agree that this standard is not realistic, that it would damage not only the European car industry, but that it would actually embezzle its original intention, that is to contribute to reducing CO2 emissions, to reducing other emissions that may threaten human health, and we believe that in this respect the de facto and rational position of the Czech government can only contribute to the improvement of these conditions for the whole of Europe. To present Vice-President Havlíček: this was actually a take-off criticism, but a take-off criticism of the Government of Andrej Babiš, and you, Mr Vice-President, know this very well. This was the government of Andrej Babiš, who joined the Green Deal agreement and the Fit for 55 package is the way Green Deal is being fulfilled, and what the Czech Republic did within the Czech Presidency, for example in the case of the ban on the sale of new vehicles with internal combustion engines after 2035, was the only rational and possible step, namely the European Commission's duty in 2026 to re-evaluate whether the requirement to ban combustion engines was realistic. And another important thing, just the exception for the consumption of synthetic fuels in combustion engines. And that is also what we stand for, with which we are once again with our partners, our partners, with whom we are talking about the Euro 7 standard, are reopening it in the debate, because we want - and that is essential - to meet the condition that the Czech Presidency has negotiated, namely the binding exception as promised by the European Commission. Let me just remind you what the government of Andrej Babiš is committed to. It has undertaken to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050 and to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 55 per cent by 2030 compared to 1990. What the European Commission's proposals subsequently brings to this point. And it is exactly Petr Fiala's government, which opposed these unrealistic proposals with clear arguments and with the ability to win allies for its position, with which we could succeed and with which we could reverse the absurd standard. And I will just mention what are the specific requirements that we associate with those countries. This is, above all, a delay in the validity of the standard, at least four years after the entry into force of the last delegated act, so that carmakers have room to prepare for individual technological requirements. And we also want to mitigate the technological requirements, we want to eliminate, for example, the border requirements that, in our opinion, fall outside the laws of physics, and we want that standard to have a fundamentally more realistic form in this respect. If we want to achieve this, it is naturally our responsibility to form an alliance, and the Czech Republic has started immediately, and I stress again that by the time we had the Czech Presidency, thanks to our cooperation with the representatives of the automotive industry, we have made comments and also made phone calls with the Commissioner, which led to the fact that the conditions have been mitigated in a way that is not sufficient for us and that is why we are responding again. And we address ourselves as one of the first, and we respond very loudly also in relation to all our European partners, and what we bring to succeed, has its allies, has a clear voice of reason, has a clear voice of alliance not only with those countries, but also, of course, with those who are key to preserving employment opportunities in the Czech Republic and in other countries of the European Union, which are key to maintaining the competitiveness of European industry, both producers and, of course, their representatives, but also, of course, social partners such as trade unions. In this case, I would expect clear support from the opposition for this position, and if we are to connect somewhere, it is at this point. Trying to earn some points even from obvious lies, as Tomio Okamura has shown, who has not even read clearly that what the Czech Republic is rejecting at the moment is the initial proposal of the European Commission to discuss the European Parliament and the Swedish Presidency in the trialogue. I believe that I have managed to disprove the obvious nonsense, fantasies and at the same time point out that the position we are applying within the Czech Republic, as part of the discussion with our foreign partners, is in fact the only possible way to protect Czech industry, but also the European industry from the threats that we have described. Thank you for your attention, and in this respect I firmly hope that we will receive more constructive and effective support than nonsense and lying attacks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-061-01-000-000.u7	The next priority will be given by President Fiala, and Mr Brabec will be prepared. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-061-01-000-000.u8	Thank you for the floor. I will also, of course, partly follow up on the Minister, and I have to say that I quite appreciate that he is sitting here and that he will listen to me in some matters, because I do not think that we agree entirely on everything that has been said here, and I think there should be any discussion about that. The set of proposed binding regulations of the European Commission, called Euro 7 standard, is totally unacceptable for the SPD, and especially for the Czech Republic and its future. Its approval would mean a major threat to the automotive industry, which is the backbone of the Czech economy, when it produces 10 percent of the gross domestic product. And it is not only a threat to the production of passenger cars, but also to the production of trucks and buses. It may not be so well known, but the fact is that the Czech Republic is literally a bus power. No other country in the world produces as many buses as the Czech Republic, especially in the companies Iveco Vysoké Mýto and SOR Libchavy. [[18.10 hours]] And a few other interesting numbers. Our car industry produces more than 20 percent of the total industrial production each year. It employs more than 130,000 people directly, and then other tens of thousands of people in the following fields, in the whole of the so-called automotive area, and, in full use of its capacity, it produces about 1.5 million passenger cars per year. All of this is not only the Euro 7 standard, but also a practically agreed ban on the sale of cars with internal combustion engines after 2035 in an existential threat. And let me say here that the ban on the sale of cars with internal combustion engines occurred under the Presidency of the Czech Republic and for raising the hand of our government for the ban on sales since 2035. With the full support and consent of the Government of Petr Fiala, its representatives at the meeting of the Council of the European Union have always agreed to this ban. Of course, this means a huge future increase in cars and a drastic reduction in their accessibility to citizens, which will have consequences not only for economic and social, but also for social, as it will bring about a significant decline in the quality of life of most people and, with light exaggeration, a return somewhere before World War II. Ironically, according to many experts, the potential benefits of Euro 7 are rather questionable. The Czech Government is now a little critical of this standard, and if I quote Minister Kupka here, he says: "We will appeal to the necessary amendment of this standard, which is something other than to say, we will do everything we can for the definitive blocking and non-acceptance of this standard." Now Minister Kupka here has spoken that they will enforce the delay. The delay -- of course, it's better than paying now, but four years later, that means four years later, we're gonna tell those green ideologists, and now you've got your green light, and we can cancel it? Europe is the continent where the most cars in the world are produced... or industry - that may not be true, but the automotive industry is the dominant industry in Europe. Here they make perfect combustion engines with Euro 6 standard. And Europe, if they let this go, we're gonna lose a terrible part of employment, a big part of industry, it's just economic and industrialization suicide in Europe, and I don't understand how anyone can even raise their hand for it, how we can discuss it. More importantly, we still remember Petr Fiala and ODS repeatedly saying before the last elections to the House that they would never vote in favour of extending the system of the sale of emission allowances to households or to the said ban on the sale of cars with internal combustion engines. And today, Minister, we know that it was a lie like a tower and that they did the opposite. That fills us with legitimate concerns. Euro 7 standard is intended to reduce nitrogen oxide and particulate matter discharges into the air. It is intended to align the limits for petrol and diesel cars, which will have to comply with it twice as long as the existing standards, and in addition to exhausts it will apply newly to brakes and tyres. That's a very interesting thing. The vehicles are to have new sensors that allow emissions to be checked at any time. It's just Orwell in practice. Big brother's watching you see if you're accidentally releasing more emissions than the European Commission allowed you to. According to automakers, these crazy measures will cost new cars tens of thousands of crowns. For example, smaller models of Škoda Auto such as Scala, Kamiq or Felicia, according to the director of external relations, Škoda Michal Kadera will reach a price level that will not be sold to customers. Thus, cars with a price tag of less than half a million crowns would disappear from the market, inevitably leading to longer use of used cars and aging the fleet. And let us add that the Euro 7 standard should start to apply for two years, while the car manufacturers would need at least four years to introduce the technical requirements of the standard into production according to their own statements. That's what Minister Kupka was talking about. The draft standard according to our Association of the automotive industry does not really provide any time for development and adaptation, which will cause large outages in production and will require massive investments, which will, however, be usable only for a very short period of time until 2035, since the European Union wants to ban internal combustion engines completely. So pressure on the Euro 7 standard will significantly reduce the available resources available to car manufacturers for the development and production of completely emission-free vehicles. It is a complete Kocourkov and a demonstration of where the bureaucratic dictatorship of Brussels leads, completely separated from the reality of life, from economic laws and from the natural order of things. In this respect, RVHP is almost overcoming in its worst times. All I'm saying is that this green ideology called Green Deal doesn't even look at how those states turn out, how they manage, and if something goes wrong, they say, "That's good, because we don't want the old world anymore." Let everything disappear, and if something doesn't work, that's good, because they need a green revolution to have their better, more beautiful, cleaner, greener world. "Norma will have a negative impact on citizens, as it will lead to a significant reduction in the supply of available smaller vehicles and an increase in the cost of passenger road transport, namely mobility overall," said Zdeněk Pecl, Executive Director of the Car Industry Association. The environmental benefit, according to him, is negligible because, in the absence of systemic support for the renewal of the obsolete fleet, the share of emissions from the operation of vehicles meeting standards older than the Euro 7 will, in the long term, significantly exceed emissions from vehicles on the market of newcomers. Interestingly, even a little bizarre is that Euro 7 no longer applies only to vehicles with an internal combustion engine, but that some of their regulations will have to meet electric cars, both personal and freight. Ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of this proposal in the form presented would literally have fatal effects on employment, both in the final car manufacturers and throughout the entire automotive supply chain, and this is the very last thing we need at the time of enormous inflation and the decline in the standard of living of wide-scale populations. After all, inflation began with energy and rising energy prices, and they started to rise because of the very green madness called Green Deal. Škoda Auto clearly points out that if the proposal is accepted, a number of production plants will be closed not only in the Czech Republic, but also in other countries, such as Hungary or Poland, which will affect the whole of Central Europe. In addition to the alleged contribution of Euro 7: according to the CEO of Iveco Czech Republic bus manufacturer David Kříž, this standard would limit the impact on emissions by 2% for trucks and by 0 percent for buses. That's really genius. I'm sure that's worth it. On the contrary, the standard will burden us with huge financial costs, those are the green billions that we are talking about here all the time, which will burden not only the Czech Republic, but all the countries of the European Union. Green billions that we could save and give to pensioners, and now we have to spend on completely pointless things and fight the pointless CO2. Then there is also the legal and legislative plane, the proposed wording of the Euro 7 provisions is extremely vague and vague. From their wording, it cannot be clearly established what the legislation in the implementing acts will be, what the content and scope of the requirements for their addressees, or, where appropriate, the Member States, which will result only in subsequent arguments, disputes and penalty proceedings. It is absolutely impossible for the addressees of this standard, i.e. the Member States of the European Union, and especially car manufacturers, to prepare in time for its implementation. [[18.20 hours]] By the way, Škoda Auto has recently written off a billion-dollar investment in the cancelled development of Fabia Combi models and other models of domestic car manufacturers are at risk in the future. If car manufacturers are not able to invest in the development of new engines and vehicles due to technical non-realisticability due to the European Union's crazy environmental standards, the segment of small and affordable cars will completely disappear, so buy a bike. The reduction of the category of small cars in the price of up to half a million crowns would mean that for a large group of people the purchase of the car will become completely unavailable and the car will be a luxury product for the so-called top ten thousand. Then you can go to the mayor of the village, where you will write on the waiting list if you want to go shopping in the city. Let us wake up and do not refrain from cosmetic modifications to Euro 7 as suggested by our government and Minister Kupka. This standard only deserves to be buried deep underground. Otherwise, we will bury our car industry, our prosperity and our standard of living. We can become the largest producer of golf electric carts in the world, regardless of the fact that this standard and other similar European Union regulations, linked to climate green ideology and Green Deal, are one of the main sources of today's high inflation, rising budget deficits and sovereign debt. Let us stop this, this is not a good way for the Czech Republic and unfortunately it can lead us to state bankruptcy in a few years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-061-01-000-000.u9	With another priority right, Mr Richard Brabec will speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-061-01-000-000.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, I will respond to some of the untruths that have been said here at the beginning. I will respond to Mr Tomio Okamura, who said here that perhaps the YES movement - I think he was talking about Dita Charanzová - supported some of the things concerning the ban on combustion engines. Here I want to say that if you look at the vote of the European Parliament, MEPs and members of the YES were opposed to the ban on internal combustion engines in 2035 and Dita Charanzová was excused from the negotiations, which means that it is not true. Then I would like to respond to Minister Kupka - I am glad that he is here and can respond. Minister, you spoke well, but you said a whole series of untruths. Either you don't know what you're talking about, in terms of Green Deal, or you know that and you're not telling the truth. First of all, Green Deal was meant to be a general intention that Europe as a whole, the European Union would be directed towards carbon neutrality in 2050, as a whole, I emphasise. It's your government, the Fialův Government, that put its goal in the programme statement that the Czech Republic will be directed towards carbon neutrality in 2050. We've never had it in the Babiš government's programming statement, so you're much greener in this. I don't know if you read it, but it was there. I have already asked about this when we talked about the government's programming statement, as the Fialův government actually means, because there are countries that have much closer to carbon neutrality, even geographically, such as Nordic countries, and there are industrial countries, and in this we will definitely agree, as the Czech Republic, which, when I was the Minister of the Environment, we did some first estimates, and at that time we ended up saying that even if we were aiming at 80 percent of the savings to 2050, this is an extremely ambitious scenario for the Czech Republic, which will be associated with several trillions, thousands of billions of investments, and therefore, also during our government, the Czech Republic never applied to carbon neutrality in 2050. This is important, Europe as a whole, and this is similar to the 55 percent that you talked about because it was our government, it was Prime Minister Babiš, and I dare say that I, too, who then negotiated that the 55 percent emission savings by 2030 will not be the individual target of each Member State, but that it will be the European target, because they are indeed countries that are likely to reach the target of perhaps 70 percent of emissions savings by 2030 compared to the benchmark base in 1990 or 2005, and it will be countries like the Czech Republic that may have major problems with the 55 percent because we are one of Europe's most industrialised countries. That means I can say for us that Babišův's government would never have voted for the ban on internal combustion engines in 2035. We talked about it back in our reign, we refused. Now, the Euro 7 standard, but I think we're in agreement. I sometimes feel that the European Commission must have a Chinese advisor because what does Euro 7 mean? It really means destroying smaller cars not only in Škoda Auto, but also in other car companies, because it is really nonsense. And even the timeline, that means 2025, is completely pointless, because just the preparation of the car companies, the fact that there are no implementing regulations, that no one knows how to measure it, how to evaluate it, it simply means that whoever designed it, and it was the European Commission, is completely out of order and pushing even more. That's the horrible combination where it never ends well. And here I want to say that it is completely incomprehensible, and here I would say that the Czech government has been allowed to get drunk with a roll in this case under the Presidency - and Saša Vondra, who says: Franz Timmermans has betrayed us because indeed, Vice-President of the European Commission Franz Timmermans, Father of Green Deal, promised, but he was not alone, that if the ban on combustion engines was approved in 2035, and again I am convinced that this is a wrong decision - by the way, the synthetic fuel, and Minister Kupka knows this certainly well, today would be a liter of synthetic fuel coming to about 250 crowns. Of course, we assume that science and research will somehow move forward, but I still think that it is not good and that in the finals it will end up so that European roads, including Czechs, will be swamped by Chinese electric cars and we will have a huge problem with competitiveness and thus employment. But if I just go back to the question of the euro-seven, it was quite clear that the euro-seven would either not see the light of the world at all, or it would be much more moderate. It didn't happen. It was really a setback from the European Commission's point of view, and I don't know if there were any agreements that were between the Czech Presidency and the European Commission, but I would really take this as a setback at that time at the Czech Presidency. I would like to know what was agreed, because what finally appeared was completely inconsistent and completely contrary to what was promised. I even spoke to Franz Timmermans personally back in Ostrava, on the train to Ostrava, when we went there, and he also said, "Yes, we want to rethink it, because we know that it would be meaningless for those few years. No, they didn't do it again, and what has been proposed is not only completely unrealistic in time and in fact, it is really a step that would lead to the destruction of the European automotive industry, because doing something for a few years, investing in it hard billions, and I, as the former Minister of the Environment, might be able to say that it is nonsense from the environmental point of view, because, and it has already fallen from my previous speakers, what do you think - I think we all agree on this, but I don't know what the European Commission thinks - what the Čech are going to think when they can't afford to buy relatively cheaper cars, I say relatively cheaper, smaller cars, because our fleet is almost 16 years old on average, which is the fifth oldest vehicle park in the European Union, and by the way, now the ageing has been rising even faster than before? Well, they'll be driving their old cars, which, of course, have high emissions, which have Euro 2, 3, 4, 5, or 6. And Minister Kupka knows, and I have worked hard to do so, that the much larger problem of the Czech Republic is, as we say, to confront a huge malice, which is called dismantle and various gutting of solid particulate filters in the Czech Republic, because there are hundreds of thousands of cars that drive without a particulate filter and churn literally a carcinogenic cocktail of various substances. I started the activities back then, we pushed the Ministry of Transport, the Police of the Czech Republic to start doing this, and something started to happen. And this step is far more important than we are here to train senselessly car manufacturers to implement measures for a few years, including measures relating to electric cars, to invest hundreds of billions or tens of billions of euros without a clear outcome. [[18.30 hours]] So this is really just proof that you're completely wrong, but completely wrong. I am terrified of the degree that the European Commission is next to in this case. So I've been through a couple of suggestions, but this guy just beat everything. So even from an environmental point of view, this is clearly a counterproductive step. I hope that in the end, the standard will not pass, that what really happened to those big states like Italy, Germany and others, that they just woke up late, but that they woke up, that, among other things, they woke up in this, even with the ban on internal combustion engines, because at the moment I'm very skeptical of how synthetic fuels replace classic petrol and conventional diesel, at least the synthetic fuel should stay there. In this case, the Fialův Government certainly has our support to fight very hard for it, but it is necessary to reject this nonsense as strongly as possible, not in those polite words as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-061-01-000-000.u11	With another priority right, Vice-President Havlíček will speak. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-061-01-000-000.u12	We're about to go to the finals, I'm not going to prolong it, but let me just, uh, let me just, uh, let me just, uh, let me give you a few reactions. Otherwise, thank you for being here and for being able to discuss it, I think that's probably how it should be. Back to Green Deal. You know very well that the 55 percent or the 0 in 2050 is negotiated thanks to us so that it does not have to meet the Czech Republic, but that it is the average of the European Union, and it is precisely that different industrial infrastructure of individual countries can be taken into account. But be careful. You're saying you inherited it from us, that you weren't happy about it. Well, the first sentence of your program statement in industrial activities is, "Green Deal is an opportunity for us." And now you're there to dismantle all the bright tomorrows associated with it. Well, that's all I wanted to say, but we're not gonna tiptoe around here, and we're not gonna change that now. Let's go pragmatically. Of course, you have our support in Euro Seven, clearly. The only thing I blamed was that you didn't pick up the battalion, Minister, in November. It is true that you were probably on the phone somewhere, that you were doing some activity, but from my point of view, you should have called a press conference and fought the next morning, but most importantly, try to negotiate with the European Commission that she couldn't do it in November. It casts a bad shadow on us and we can discuss whether the European Commission didn't actually put it there on purpose because it felt the pressure of Timmermans that the Czech Republic is really climate-horse in this, but that's speculation again. In any case, you have our support here. I have criticized and criticised Minister Síkela much more than I criticize you, Minister. While I'm looking for what you might have done wrong, I'm looking for what he did right. [[Let's hear it for members of the YES.]] But there is one thing I have to admit to him that he quite quickly recognized that the European Commission tends to actually mop the floor with us sometimes, and sometimes naively enough, but at least he tried to fight the European Commission not to make those crazy proposals. I'm not saying it all worked out for him, but I have a feeling he was trying to. And now for the finale. You're saying the combustion engines are down to 2035, but with that there's a valve in 2026. Let's not be fooled by this, it's purely like a theoretical valve. If the car companies hit it in 2022, 2023, which they already did in their own way, then then, in 2026, there's no turning back. You know very well that the innovation cycle or the production cycle of one car is somewhere around seven, eight, even nine years old. That means it's not gonna matter anymore and it's not gonna change in 2026. It was just a little trick of the European Commission. But please, if you still have some time before we close this, just answer me this: we're going to be in that group - a very specific question - those countries, I suspect it's Germany, Poland, Italy, Bulgaria today, which stood here at the back of the end of 2035 and are fighting for synthetic fuels, are we going to be among them? That's the first question. And then you still owe us an answer to the two that I have raised here: why have we agreed to this and voted that emission allowances will extend to households since 2027 - and clear, that is there - and then why have we agreed, despite saying otherwise, to reduce the number of emission allowances since 2024, which will mean that their price will rise and it will fall to industry? Why did we agree to these two things? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-061-01-000-000.u13	Thank you. I will add my apologies: Madam President Schillerová Alena apologises from 15 to 15.50 and then from 17 to 17.25 for reasons of work, Mrs Šebelová apologises from 18 to 18 for reasons of work and, on the contrary, Mr Jan Kuchař cancels his apology and is already present at our meeting. And now the last one with priority rights is signed up by Minister Kupka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-061-01-000-000.u14	A few very brief responses, especially to Richard Brabec, who began by trying to correct a few of my untruths. Well, I didn't mention any, and even his performance turned out that none of what I said was untrue. We agree on some things, we clearly agree that, for example, the Euro 7 standard, as proposed by the Commission, is counterproductive even in relation to the environment, for me one of the major reasons why we will be defending it. At the same time, it really means threatening the competitiveness of the automotive industry not only in the Czech Republic, but in Europe, and more seriously for the Czech Republic that the automotive industry represents 9 percent of GDP in the Czech Republic. The impact on jobs, which are half a million in relation to the automotive industry and all its connections, would be very sensitive and painful. Therefore, once again, I stress that the Czech Republic was one of the first to raise the banner not by hypercorrect rejection, but by a clear statement of the national position that we consider the standard unacceptable. That was the words and the words of the Government's resolution from December last year. So once again, in this respect, the position of the Czech Republic is clear, one of the first, and it is also we who are creating that group of states that call this standard in the form that the Commission has presented it, a clear, distinct 'no'. And here I have introduced a circle of states that Vice-President Havlíček spoke of: Germany, Italy, Poland, Bulgaria, Romania. After the last negotiations, France is joining us in many ways. I firmly hope that this will be an even wider group of states, because we are all aware of what this standard would bring, and the emphasis on the fact that, as a result of a huge price, it would have produced a very problematic positive impact on the environment, that the negative effects would have outweighed the positive effects. In the case of the Czech Republic, I will mention another important aspect, because it would probably slow the renewal of the fleet and this is one of the major pains of the Czech Republic, because the fleet is one of the oldest with an average age of the car over fifteen years. That is why we urgently need this standard to change its form significantly. Here, in the light of the next procedure, when the Czech Government presented its position, she said it clearly - we have made it clear what the next steps are, including the actions of states that have a similar view to us, a clear 'no' in relation to the European Commission. At the same time, Alexandr Vondra will be the rapporteur in the European Parliament and we are in close contact with him. Arm all your MEPs so that they can actively comment on that standard, because it will now be the subject of negotiations in the European Parliament. If you are serious about rejecting Euro 7, please do something about it, because otherwise it would sound like other steps of the YES and SPD movement, which, of course, do not hide criticism, but in fact have not done much historically. So we say in this regard: Clear steps of alliance with countries with which we are able to enforce opposition to the proposal. Those are the key things that just count. [[18.40 hours]] Not only do I firmly hope, but after the first steps, I can already estimate that Euro 7 will not succeed in the current form and will be able to protect the competitiveness of the European and Czech automotive industry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-061-01-000-000.u15	One more priority right, Vice-President Havlíček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-061-01-000-000.u16	Mr. Secretary, you're still getting away from me. Please try us here now - it's almost full of House - to answer those two questions. Why did you vote in favour of extending emission allowances to households, and why did you vote in favour of reducing the number of emission allowances? Two simple questions. Just explain to us what was behind this, because that's not just what we're asking, that's what the industry is asking, that's what consumers are asking. It was against what you said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-061-01-000-000.u17	At this point, no one claims priority rights. We will therefore vote on the entire proposal for the 61st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. I called the MPs to the ballroom. Yes, I'm registering your application for check-out, so I'm checking you all out, and I'm asking you to log in again with your I.D. cards. The number of Members has slowed down. I would remind you that we will therefore vote on the whole proposal for the 61st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? To press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? 145 Members voted in favour of 66, against 23. The motion for a resolution has not been adopted and the agenda has not been approved. So I'm ending the 61st meeting, and I'm also reminding you... [[This is Mrs Schiller reporting.]] Madam President is still interested in speaking. Please, Madam President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-061-01-000-000.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. My colleague Radek Vondráček asked me today: Did the President of the Chamber of Deputies call you and ask you how much time should she possibly determine or how much would you like to devote to extraordinary meetings? I say. No, she never called me. She never asked me about it. He says to me, "You see, I have called as the chairman of the opposition regularly. So not only did we not get time to actually have it chopped up, as they say in Zlinsko, as Baťa exercises behind us, to the Czech post office, which threatens insolvency, even half an hour, but you just don't care. Expensive food, increased parental allowance, ban cars with internal combustion engines, Czech Post problem, you just don't care. However, we will not stop, and by Friday we will try again to include these points on the House's agenda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-08-ps2021-061-01-000-000.u19	Before we break up, I remind you that tomorrow, on 9 March at 14 o'clock, the first joint meeting of the two chambers of Parliament will be opened at the Prague Castle's Vladislav Hall to make a pledge to the President of the Republic. On Friday, March 10th, at 9:00 p.m., we will continue the adjourned 53rd meeting. Have a nice rest of the evening.
