ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-003-021.u1	21. Government bill amending Act No. 279/2003 Coll., on the exercise of property and property security in criminal proceedings and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, and other related laws /German press 430/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be presented by the Minister of Justice Pavel Blažek, who will be represented by the Minister of Legislation. And I ask the Minister to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-003-021.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I think I will cut back on my introduction. It is more or less an organizational standard, which is presented after such several years of trying and consulting between the Ministry of Justice, Interior, NCOZ, Ministry of Transport, Supreme Prosecutor and ÚZSVM. The problem that is there today is that securing the property in criminal proceedings is done by several authorities, as well as by the Asset Management Centre, which is a department of the Ministry of the Interior property management and partly by the ÚZSVM, which is not entirely practical, so the gross of the activity should be concentrated today in the Asset Management Centre, which will be the main state entity that will administer the assets. Then the administration should be made even more efficient by the fact that today the administration costs are charged to the law enforcement authorities that require this collateral, which is not quite practical, so from now on it should be so that it will basically be at the cost of the person carrying out the collateral. And then there are the accompanying changes to the penal code. On the one hand, the reasons for leaving the secured property on the spot are widened, for example, because someone needs it to do some work, and it is also possible to put some cash value in place of the secured property, which corresponds to the value, so that it does not go wrong and threaten the purpose of the criminal proceedings. These are the fundamental changes and I hope that you will support this proposal and release it for second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-003-021.u3	Thank you and please take the floor of the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Tomáš Kohoutek. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-003-021.u4	Thank you. Madam President, members of the government, colleagues, the administration of assets secured in criminal proceedings is governed by Law No. 279/2003 Coll., on the exercise of property and property security in criminal proceedings and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended. The current legislation envisages a larger number of managers of secured assets, both state and non-state entities. In the area of management of secured assets, there is thus some fragmentation of entities carrying out such management, which makes it difficult to set uniform administrative standards for state bodies. The majority of the entities managing the secured assets are engaged in a core activity other than the administration itself and are therefore only associated with that core activity. The condition in which the management of the secured property is considered to be an associated activity of the AIFM and thus carried out is not considered optimal in terms of the efficiency of the management performance. In 2020, the Department of International Cooperation and Methodology of the National Office against Organised Crime, in cooperation with the Centre, which deals with coordination and methodological activities in the area of the administration and sale of secured assets in the Ministry of the Interior, analysis of the management of secured property and its cost efficiency, where one of the outputs of this analysis is the amendment of the current Act No. 279/2003 Sb. [[11.50 hours]] As far as the proposed changes are concerned, they are not linked to increased financial entitlements to the state budget or to other public budgets. As part of the amendment, only territorial centres of the Office of State representation are being launched in property matters as property managers secured in criminal proceedings, with the Ministry of the Interior taking over their agenda. In the context of the movement of this agenda, two tables will be transferred in the ninth grade under Government Decree No. 222/2010 Sb. and together with the means of payment for salaries, including accessories from the Office of State representation in property matters at the Ministry of the Interior. As regards the general part as regards the specific part of the draft law, or the explanatory memorandum, I would like to point out that, in particular, one possible solution to avoid disproportionate costs or other difficulties associated with the management of the secured property is to ensure that the property is left in the place where it is located. It is therefore proposed to change the current taxative list of reasons for which such a procedure is possible to demonstrate, since there may be other reasons in practice than those foreseen by the law today. [[Noise in the hall.]] On the basis of practical knowledge, the existing arrangements are further supplemented by the authorisation of the law enforcement authority to enter the place where the assets secured are situated where they have been secured by retention on the ground, for the purpose of carrying out the inspection and in the preparatory procedure...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-003-021.u5	I apologize, rapporteur. I ask for silence in front of the speaker in particular, thank you very much. Please, you may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-003-021.u6	Thank you. The preparatory procedure shall, of course, require the prior consent of the Judge if, to that end, he is to enter the premises in which the examination can only be carried out on the basis of a court order. It is also proposed to explicitly adapt the so-called pre-insurance planning, as it appears necessary to consult the Ministry of the Interior on matters related to the management of the secured property before securing a specific type of property by a competent law enforcement authority, as far as possible. It also strengthens the role of the Department of the Centre of Secured Activities from the Department of Property Management of the Ministry of the Interior, the area of asset management, and proposes to transfer part of the administration to the Ministry of the Interior until now by the Office of State Representation in Property Affairs. In view of the requirement to minimise the costs of managing the assets secured, it is preferred that, as far as possible, it should ensure the administration of the assets secured in criminal proceedings by the State itself, and only if this is not possible, it should contact private entities. In addition, it is proposed to simplify and streamline the model of reimbursement of costs associated with the management of assets secured in criminal proceedings where it is the administrator of the State. It is proposed that the administration's own costs be borne by the state body that carries out the administration and that it no longer bill the costs associated with the administration of law enforcement bodies, which is administratively demanding and burdensome. The draft law envisages the entry into force of this amendment on 1 July 2024. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-003-021.u7	I also thank the rapporteur and open a general debate. I don't enter into the general debate... I'm logged in, please, Member, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-003-021.u8	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, Prime Minister, Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, today we have the matter of the amendment to the Law on the Enforcement of Property and Things in Criminal Procedure, a very important issue which is certainly of crucial importance in the context of justice and criminal proceedings, namely the exercise of property and property security. I would just like to mention the role and importance of this key process in promoting justice and also the protection of the public interest. The exercise of property and property security constitutes an important instrument in criminal proceedings. Its main objective is to secure property that is linked to criminal activity and, above all, to prevent it from being abused or escaped from justice. This process ensures that assets or items relevant to investigations and judicial proceedings are mainly safely stored and protected. An important aspect of the exercise of property and property protection is the legal framework that gives him support. This framework is provided by legislation and procedures which govern how property and goods can be secured, how they are registered and how they are loaded after criminal proceedings have ended. It is essential that the exercise of collateral be carried out in accordance with the law and also the principles of justice in order to guarantee the rights of all parties involved. The exercise of property security and things brings several key benefits. The first is to ensure fair criminal proceedings. When property and property related to criminal activity is properly secured, the risk of abuse or loss shall be minimized. This allows the courts and investigators to work with evidence and material that is important for the case, while protecting the rights of the accused as well as interested parties. The second benefit of the performance of the provision of property and things is the prevention of further crime. When property and property related to criminal activity are secured and under strict supervision, this reflects a deterrent signal for potential perpetrators. This also reduces the likelihood of these individuals continuing their illegal activities and thus contributes to increased safety in society. Last but not least, the exercise of assets and things contributes to restoring public confidence in the justice system. When property and things that are part of criminal proceedings are properly secured and managed, the public may have greater confidence that justice will be achieved and that crimes will not remain unpunished. Ladies and gentlemen, the exercise of property and property security is an integral part of criminal proceedings and also has a significant impact on the enforcement of justice. It is important for this process to be carried out in accordance with the laws and principles of justice and to ensure a balance between the rights of the accused and the need to protect the public interest. Thank you for your attention and I hope that this speech has contributed to your better understanding of the importance and importance of the pursuit of property and property security in criminal proceedings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-003-021.u9	Thank you. Your speech raised one point of fact, Mr Dufek came forward. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-003-021.u10	So I confess, I actually respond to my previous speaker, who described the meaning of this law here. I personally believe that the content of the amendment is rather technical. It is important from my own experience of securing property, but it is no longer as important as it used to be - in fact before, I would say that much larger assets were provided. Maybe it's because criminal activity has now been sophisticated, which means, often there's nothing to entertain. The practical problem that we are dealing with in criminal proceedings at the moment is, above all, the provision of passenger cars. This is indeed a problem, because when you start the criminal proceedings by securing the person only accused by a passenger car and the driving then goes for three years, of course after those three years the vehicle completely loses its price, it stands somewhere in the court at the district police headquarters and the state has really great problems with it. So I think that basically this amendment here is more likely to be set up here for this problem, not some complex change in the state's attitude about securing property in criminal proceedings. The situation is sometimes so absurd that during the criminal proceedings the sale of the personal vehicle occurs, the accused is then exonerated, and then basically some residual price of the car is sent to his account. It's just a practical thing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-003-021.u11	Thank you for keeping time and others with a factual remark is signed up by Mr Král. And just to be clear to all Members, it is 11:59 a.m., I will interrupt you at 12 o'clock, Mr. Ambassador, because we have a fixed point. Please, your two minutes that won't run.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-003-021.u12	Thank you, I'll be quick. I just want to ask, because I haven't quite read it, whether this amendment will in any way involve securing or confiscating property, Russian property in the territory of the Czech Republic in relation to the conflict of war that we are witnessing in Ukraine - if these modifications are not to be merged into one in any way so that we do not have to employ ourselves unnecessarily in the course of the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-003-021.u13	Thank you for keeping time, and since we have 11.59 hours... If the Minister wants more, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-003-021.u14	Well, if it's in criminal proceedings, the market touches it, otherwise this has nothing to do with the Magnity Law and those persons on the penalty list.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-003-021.u15	Let's see... It's 12 o'clock, I'm sorry, I can't give you my word anymore, I have to interrupt this point, because at 12 o'clock, we have a fixed point, which is a point number.
