ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u1	137. Oral inhalation Today, with the participation of the verifiers, the ranking of Members was drawn, in which they will perform and submit oral interviews first to Prime Minister Petr Fiala or the Government of the Czech Republic, from 14.30 to 16, to other members of the government from 16 to 18 hours thereafter. The lists of Members according to the winning order have been distributed to us on the bench. I would like to draw attention to all Members of the Government and to the fact that, if the intervention on Prime Minister Petr Fiala is exhausted, the intercession on other members of the Government will immediately begin. I therefore now give the floor to Mr Jan Síla, who was drawn first in order to give an oral interview to Prime Minister Petr Fiala. Mr Radim Fiala will be ready, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u2	Dear Prime Minister, allow me to interpel you on the fact that your government has been able to secure the most expensive energy of food for our citizens in 19 months, to support and not address the highest inflation in the Czech Republic, to raise taxes, to reduce pensions, not to secure enough medicines, especially for children, to collect subsidies for farmers, to secure reception of the most refugees, to promote censorship and to punish people with the wrong opinion, to close mail, to make the Czech Republic the primary target of atomic weapons of Russia in the event of the United States' war against Russia. Given the current situation and the ongoing war in Ukraine, in which NATO members, in turn the United States, are increasingly involved, our introduction into the war with Russia is threatened. Of course, the destruction of so-called logistics centres serving arms supplies in Ukraine will be a priority. The people of the Moravian-Silesian Region are very concerned about buying land around Mošnov, around Mošnov Airport, in order to build here the so-called US Army Logistics Centre, which is actually the US military base, which I have interviewed you here several times. Russia has enough hypersonic missiles with nuclear warheads. Mošnov Airport is, in this respect, the first on the wound. You are educated and I would say a decent person, which is why my question is: Do you not feel that your government has already damaged Czech citizens enough and it is time for you to end your government mission before it is completed by angry citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u3	Thank you. Prime Minister Petr Fiala now has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u4	Dear Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Welcome to the continuation of the intervention. In the morning we dealt with written questions, now we have an oral one, and I therefore have the opportunity to answer the questions asked by Members. To begin with, I can only say that I understand, Síla course, that the opposition party would like our government not to be here and there would be others to participate in, but not only have we gained the necessary trust of citizens and the Chamber of Deputies, but we are also taking the steps that we have promised citizens, and the steps that are necessary in terms of what challenges and problems the Czech Republic faces with regard to what is happening around us. And the interpretation of what we did is definitely different from the one you offered. I will remind you that our government has been able to deal with one crisis after another from the beginning and we have dealt with them successfully. We have made this country a new wave of covid without lockdown, without closing schools, without restricting entrepreneurs, we have managed to cope with the consequences of Russian aggression on Ukraine by providing enough energy for the Czech Republic, for example, and I must note that there was a risk that the Czech Republic would not have enough gas for example. Everything our government has managed, we have covered energy prices, we have managed without social problems and without any impact on citizens to cope with a huge refugee wave, we have solved fuel prices and other and other things that I could remember much longer here. But I want to answer your question, and therefore what happens to the Mošnov project and the logistics center of the Czech Army. First of all, I want to say that the Army of the Czech Republic received an offer from the Moravian-Silesian Region to be one of the participants in the strategic development of the Great Mošnov project in 2021, and the offer was accepted by the Ministry of Defence, so the interpretation that people in the Moravian-Silesian Region do not want it, that the Moravian-Silesian Region does not want it, is certainly wrong. For the Ministry of Defence, which coordinates the protection of the defence of the Czech Republic and ensures fulfilment of obligations in relation to the Alliance, this location, dislocation of the logistics centre in the eastern part of the Czech Republic, and moreover Mošnov has the advantage of being connected to the transport infrastructure, railway, motorway network, airport. Its construction will achieve an increase in the capacity of the forces and means of the armed forces of the Czech Republic and will create other conditions both in terms of carrying out the defence tasks that the army has and by the fact that such a centre will certainly help the development of the Moravian-Silesian Region. In the end, it is also in the interests of the Moravian-Silesian Region. I could explain the advantages it has for the Moravian-Silesian Region, for the Czech Republic, for the security of the Czech Republic, for the defence of the Czech Republic, I could explain here further the advantages that this locality has in terms of connection to air, rail and road infrastructure, I could explain here the advantage that, for example, this airport is capable of receiving large transport aircraft and so on, but I do not want to ignore the subtone or what was said in your question, and that is that there will be some American soldiers or that it will be some kind of base. There is no, I want to say clearly, there is no intention or suggestion that American or any other soldiers from abroad in Mošnov operate. No one prepares such a thing, there is no such thing anywhere, there is no such intention or suggestion. Any activity of soldiers of foreign forces, including the presence of soldiers of the United States, must always be agreed and approved in accordance with the Constitution of the Czech Republic. There's no such thing, there's no such thing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u5	Thank you, Prime Minister. I ask the honourable Member if he is interested in an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u6	Thank you for your answer, but I cannot agree with you for one simple reason. Once again, you're saying there's no chance that there's an American base. The last time you interviewed me, you answered me that you wouldn't raise real estate taxes, you repeated it several times. Yet you do it. Today you say there will be no American base planned. How are you going to convince me or assure the people of the Moravian-Silesian Region that this is true? Because I can assure you that next week, what I have news, there will be a great demonstration against this government plan of yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u7	Thank you. The Prime Minister has an interest in responding yet.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u8	I don't know if there's going to be a demonstration or not, but I'm sure I'm not questioning the fact that there's going to be a demonstration, you know more than I do. Maybe you're involved in their organizations, and you have every right to do that, but it's hard to push or ask me to confirm something I can't confirm because it's not true. The truth is, there's no base, there's no such project. The truth is that even after the approval of the agreement with the United States on defence cooperation it is not possible for him to operate, reside in the territory of the Czech Republic and have a base of any member of the army of one of the foreign states, unless he has approved it specifically in accordance with the Constitution of the Chamber of Deputies, the Senate, as it should be according to the Constitution of the Czech Republic. There's no such thing as a threat. What is happening in Mošnov is in the interests of the Czech Republic, in the interests of the citizens of the Moravian-Silesian Region. It is the construction of a logistics centre, by the way, on the basis of a memorandum between the Ministry of Defence and the Moravian-Silesian Region from August 2022, a memorandum on cooperation in the preparation of the territory for the implementation of the project, the logistics centre of the Czech Army Mošnov. I think it is clear from what I am saying here that it is in the interests of the citizens of the Moravian-Silesian Region, that new opportunities are being created there, new quality infrastructure, that this is in line with the interests of defence and security of the Czech Republic, and that is all it is necessary to look for. That I can't convince you, Mr. Ambassador, that's possible, but whoever's listening to me knows how it is, and he'll take a picture of it himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u9	Thank you. I'd like another interview, and this is Mr Radim Fiala. Mrs Pošarová will be ready. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u10	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, my topic is migration. On 8 June, the representatives of the Member States in Brussels and the Czech Republic signed and raised their hand for the migration policy pact, which includes a commitment to compulsory solidarity with countries with high numbers of illegal migrants. The Czech Republic supported this reform in the person of Interior Minister Vít Rakušan of STAN, while Poland and Hungary voted against it. You're publishing this as your huge success. I'd say it's a betrayal of national interests. And to prove it, I'll read you what the Polák and Maďar have to say about your pact. Polish Interior Minister Bartosz Grodecki stated to the agreement that Poland refused to pay fines for not bringing migrants into Europe in bulk. This is a very capidative and precise summary of the nature of the new EU migration pact. Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán even said that the European Union wants to force migrants into its country through a new adjustment of asylum policy. So that's what you consider your success. Brusel is taking advantage of the powers to place migrants in Hungary by force. And another voice from Poland from Prime Minister Morawiecký himself: "As long as the rule of law and justice is in power, we will not allow anyone to impose any migration quotas, refugee quotas from Africa, the Middle East, arab, Muslims and God knows who else," said the Polish Prime Minister. So I think the Polák can be proud of that. And I believe, Prime Minister, that your government has betrayed Czech national interests. I consider it a complete disaster. And you're right, I'd like your government to end as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u11	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u12	Mr President of the SPD, I would always recommend that you deal with strong words and expressions as someone has betrayed national interests and so on. There's no reason for that. It will soon prove that what we have done is defending the interests of the Czech Republic and promoting the long-term interests of the Czech Republic. Unlike you, I do not defend the interests of Hungary or Poland, I defend the interests of the Czech Republic and do what is best for the Czech Republic. If the Hungarian Prime Minister feels - but I haven't heard those words - that's what I'm saying - that someone wants to force him into his country to send migrants, I'm sure he's doing the right thing. No one wants to send migrants here violently, nor will they, and I see no reason why the Czech Republic should not participate in a sensible agreement, which, after many years of failure, has a chance to tackle illegal migration and is in the interests of the Czech Republic. There was a several-hour discussion on this point yesterday. I have explained from this place very closely, describing the content of the general approach, i.e. the position of the Council of the European Union on the reform of asylum policy. The Interior Minister Vít Rakušan explained it here. This is not the final result, the resulting form will need to be agreed with the European Parliament, which will not be easy. I don't remember now whether you were present or not, and even if he wasn't, it doesn't matter. But there really were a lot of arguments, so I'm referring you to this debate yesterday. I will only recall here the basic facts, what is the essence of the outcome and in what this corresponds to the long-term positions that we held in opposition and then the government and which have actually managed to negotiate. There will be no mandatory quotas. I do not understand how anyone can talk about quotas, this agreement excludes mandatory quotas. There is a choice of how the state will help. And on being solidarity, we agreed once across the coalitions, the opposition, across the political spectrum. Possibility of choice, once again stressing how the state will help. There is an increase in the protection of the European Union's external borders. Something that has been called for a long time, that has failed. This includes this agreement. There's a key thing - a better return policy for the exiled. This is something that can be considered a success if, as I say, this is still uncertain - it has indeed become a new form of the European Union's migration policy. We have achieved a clear success. Refugees from Ukraine are counted and are expected for the future when they do not have temporary protection, with support for Ukrainian refugees on our territory in the framework of solidarity. I do not know what should be a better negotiated position for the Czech Republic, better enforcement of Czech interests than all these facts. Or do you really think that the current form of migration policy in the European Union is good? After all, we all know that the current form doesn't work. The current asylum immigration policy, which is applied in the European Union, was developed at a time when several thousand migrants were expected annually. But now tens of thousands of applications are coming into a number of countries, and they do not match the setting of migration-azyle policies for what we have to deal with. Yes, for a long time, the will of many Member States has not been enough to deal with this at all, but it has recently been possible to create a wider coalition of states that are interested in addressing and stopping migration policy, to finally do something about illegal migration, with the disgusting trade in the people associated with it, and with all the problems it brings, and that is the substance of this agreement. Moreover, this agreement also includes, beyond the fact that we are able to do something about illegal migration, guarantees for the Czech Republic. Guarantees that take into account the fact that we are a country that has adopted a huge number of refugees from Ukraine. So from my point of view, this agreement is certainly such that it corresponds to the interests of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u13	Thank you and please the Member with an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u14	Prime Minister, we may not be paying in the first few years because you have negotiated an exception because we have a great migration from Ukraine, but it will not apply in the next few years. That means either we receive them and they will be thousands, tens of thousands, or we will pay. So I'm saying, first of all, it's a huge security risk, and second of all, where do you get the money for it, now that you've got a 300-billion-dollar hole in the register and you can't seal it? You're going to borrow again, you're going to borrow to be solidarity and accept migrants. So yesterday we called on you as a government to join the positions of Poland and Hungary. It is interesting that the agreement is read differently - the Polák differently, the Maďar differently and you differently, Prime Minister. So we have called on you to join the positions of Hungary and Poland and to reject in the EU institutions the principles of direction towards the draft regulation and so on about this migration. And if you don't, when we're in the government in two and a half years, we will withdraw immediately from this agreement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u15	Thank you. The Prime Minister will respond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u16	We still have to wait to see if the agreement in its current form will apply. But if he pays and you withdraw from it, I don't know if you will act in the interests of the Czech Republic. This means, therefore, that you will withdraw from the agreement which guarantees us that we will be able to ask for solidarity in receiving refugees already on our territory, like the other Member States. That, among other things, is what's being negotiated there. You say: You will not pay now - you have acknowledged this yourself and I appreciate that you have acknowledged something that we have negotiated - now we will not pay because here we have Ukrainian refugees. But then what? Then, when temporary protection is over, they will seek asylum. Do you know what's in the deal? The agreement is that then we will receive the solidarity contributions, as will other Member States. That's reality, and that's the essence of the deal. You have to get to know this and then you would understand that it is really in the interests of the Czech Republic, and it is completely, completely clear. But the point is - at least some of us - to address migration policy overall, so that we do not have to close or control borders, as we did in the case of Slovakia, so that the movements of people within the Schengen area do not have to be reduced. And the assumption that this will never have to happen creates this agreement. You're talking about it costing us big money, but we're already doing some solid work on some things that concern migration policy, and continuously - the government of Andrej Babiš did it, our government is doing it, we're sending our people to protect the external border, we're involved in capacity building, we're financially involved in solving problems in the countries of origin, or we're already doing those solidarity measures for a long time. I insist that this agreement is advantageous for the Czech Republic in these basic parameters.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u17	Thank you, and another of the winnings is Mrs Marie Pošarová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u18	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, I would like to ask you about the common asylum procedure which is being introduced as a Union regulation which will take precedence over our high-quality asylum procedures. Does that mean that more states will be involved in this asylum procedure, another state than one as of this time? That's the first question. And two: why did we agree that a quota of 30,000 illegal migrants per year and an amount of EUR 20,000 per immigrant rejected may increase? Why did they agree to go to a fund managed by the European Commission and not to those specific states? I think that what we are paying to the European Union now is enough, where money is only to be used to protect the external border, and not for the European Commission to finance where, where, various agendas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u19	Thank you. I'll take the moment before the Prime Minister gets to the counter. I apologise for the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies of the Members of the Government: Mr Ivan Bartoš all day on account of a foreign trip, Minister Baxa all day on account of working reasons, Minister Síkela from 16 for working reasons, Minister Blažek all day on account of working reasons, Minister Lipavský all day on account of a foreign trip, Minister Dvořák all day on account of a foreign trip, Minister Hladík all day on account of working reasons, Minister Jurečka from 15.30 for working reasons, Minister Langšádlová all day on account of working reasons, Minister Černochováý all day on account of foreign travel, Minister Nekula all day on account of working reasons, Minister Šalomoun for the whole working day, Minister Langšádlová all day on account of foreign travel, Minister Stanjura from 11 on account of foreign travel and Minister Válek from 13 for working reasons. You have your word, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u20	Thank you and thank the lady for specific questions, actually the two I will try to answer, even though we are getting into more technical questions here, but I think that's a good thing. Thus, the Asylum Procedure Regulation aims, in particular, to strengthen the responsibility for protecting the external border, particularly through the introduction of a mandatory border procedure, which I think is correct. That is why this regulation lays down a common procedure throughout the European Union, which will then have to be followed by Member States in applications for international protection. This simplifies procedural measures and reduces the duration of the proceedings. In the situation in which we have - and have seen it in past cases - it is not enough that we have good asylum procedures. There is a need for common rules to be followed. The regulation also lays down common standards and rights for asylum seekers, such as the provision of the services of an interpreter, the right to legal aid and representation and so on. But the main objective of this regulation is to prevent abuse of the system, to establish clear obligations for applicants who now have to cooperate - or will have to - with the authorities throughout the procedure. The regulation introduces a mandatory border procedure, as I have already said, and its aim - and this is also essential - is to quickly assess at the external borders of the European Union whether applications are unfounded, inadmissible, and the whole procedure is thus considerably shortened. It should take up to 12 weeks and there is a maximum period of 6 months, and this is also a significant shift. Persons subject to asylum border procedures are not entitled to enter the territory of a Member State, and this is also important. And then they don't apply to all the things we're facing now. So the mandatory border procedure has a clear deadline and those undergoing it are not entitled to enter the territory of the Member State. In order to carry out border procedures, Member States will have to create adequate capacity, including human resources, necessary to assess the number of applications at that time and to implement the return decision. How else could we do this? And how would we improve return policy and prevent illegal migrants from entering the territory, how would we improve asylum procedures than in this way? On your second question: within the framework of approved flexible solidarity, Member States have the opportunity to choose the form of support provided. Individual Member States have a choice, simply to say, of the three options - and beware, all three options are considered equivalent. Firstly, the relocation of applicants for international protection. This is what the Czech Republic rejects, and the relocation - which follows - is not mandatory, and I consider this to be good. Second, financial assistance. That's just one of the three options the state can choose. A third is alternative solidarity measures aimed at capacity building, services, support for personnel, equipment and technical equipment. Here I said exactly as the alternative solidarity measure is defined, namely alternative solidarity measures - or alternative solidarity measures, in a possible number - that is something the Czech Republic has been doing for a long time, so there is no reason why we should be afraid of it and why we should stop doing it and start doing something else. [[15.00 hours]] So the Member State can choose. Someone wants to accept applicants for international protection in their territory, somebody will contribute to other Member States to solve the problem, to implement asylum procedures, and there is now a preliminary amount, but again I say, this is not a definitive form, this is a proposal that must still be discussed and which must then be passed through the approval and agreement with the European Parliament. The regulation also provides for a minimum number of annual relocations to be carried out by the European Union and some other things. But the possibility that the state can choose from three alternatives to participating in solidarity is explicitly anchored there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u21	I would like to thank the Member if she is interested in speaking with an additional question. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u22	Dear Prime Minister, you are actually admitting that you have resigned by signing a high-quality asylum Czech procedure, so that is one. Secondly, as you have a green line so that migrants do not reach the territory of a Member State, perhaps I will tell Italy, because the treaty does not apply, that is the second question. And I ask how you, under the Presidency, have solved the return policy of migration, because countries from the third state and for the money really don't want the migrants back because they don't want a one-time contribution, they want to be here for the rest of their lives to ensure that this social system, the lifelong social system of people from third countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u23	Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u24	That's the kind of interpellation I refuse. We have not resigned to any good asylum policy of the Czech Republic. We have come to an agreement that introduces a much better asylum policy than it has been in the EU. The problem is not primarily in the Czech Republic. The problem - we talked here repeatedly, I don't want to give a lecture on asylum migration policy problems - but we all know what doesn't work. External border protection is not working, which is improving with this treaty. Return policy does not work at all, which is greatly improved by this treaty. You can return illegal migrants to countries that are not countries of their origin. I was here yesterday, unfortunately I don't have time for this, in my performance and in particular examples. So the improvements that are happening here are a whole series. And what is the aim of this measure? The aim of this measure is to stop illegal migration. The aim of this agreement is that we have more effective tools to combat illegal migration in order to prevent a huge influx of illegal migrants into Europe. That is why the countries that are interested in this solution have joined together here. Yes, there are forces in the European Parliament, which do not want to tackle illegal migration in this strong way. It will not be easy to agree on these measures, but in my opinion and in my colleagues' opinion, these are the right measures. We did not want quotas, we wanted to improve return policy, we always said - now I am speaking across the political spectrum - that this situation is to be addressed outside the EU. All of this is contained in this agreement. So not only have we not resigned, but on the contrary, we are trying to ensure that effective measures are finally taken within the EU to combat illegal migration, and this agreement creates a prerequisite for this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u25	Thank you and please join and win, Mr Radovan Vích.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, your government, through Secretary of Defense Jana Černochová, has concluded an agreement on cooperation in defence of the country by the Czech Republic and the United States of America. However, it is not a cooperation agreement, but an agreement that, if ratified, creates not only the conditions for permanent residence of United States soldiers in our territory, but, in particular, the construction of buildings and buildings in the eleven locations of the Czech Republic, which will have the character of embassies - so we do not have access, we do not know who is there and what activity it is doing there, and we do not know what material is there and will be stored. The main provisions of the agreement are how objects can be built here, their families will come to the soldiers, they will have schools, exchange offices, catering facilities and so on. Moreover, this agreement is not reciprocal and it is only framework and not detailed, it is unanswerable for 10 years and at the same time has no national or international jurisdiction to examine it. I believe that this is such an essential thing that should be subject to a national referendum. He is turning to me and our MPs from the SPD for a number of citizens who are concerned about your government's progress in this matter and do not want to build any foreign bases on our territory. And I agree with them. We've had years of NATO contract SOFA, which has so far been enough. Prime Minister, the arguments that a possible stay of foreign soldiers would still be decided by Parliament are not appropriate. Are you seriously saying that a hundred of you would decide whether or not we're gonna have foreign soldiers here on foreign bases? This must be approved at least at the level of a constitutional three-fifth majority, i.e. the Constitution of the Czech Republic, which should be preceded by a national referendum. And I have two questions for you as part of my interpellation. For what reason was the public debate not allowed before signing a defense agreement with the US? And two: In Slovakia, an interpretive clause was adopted in this case, which clearly states that the signature of this agreement does not in any way mean and does not create the conditions for setting up a base, even in the future. So why does the interpretation clause not contain this agreement in our country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u27	Thank you. I ask the Prime Minister to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u28	Mr. Ambassador, I'm the only one who remembers this deal, and I'm already responding to several interviews, so it's hard to say that there's no debate going on here, there's no public debate, of course. Moreover, the treaty on defence cooperation with the United States has actually been discussed in public for some time. Maybe I should start by saying one very important sentence. The sentence is that we should have had a defensive treaty with the United States a long time ago, we don't, and it's a good thing we're preparing it now. When I look only at the Member States of the North Atlantic Alliance, 24 of them already have such an agreement. All neighbouring countries have them and now the Czech Republic will finally have them. I think that Russia's attack on Ukraine clearly shows why we need cooperation within the North Atlantic Alliance, why we need the European Union and why such an agreement is reasonable. She is reasonable precisely because of our security, and it is a pity that the SPD does not see this as an opposition party. All I'm saying is that all the surrounding allied countries have it, you've been giving me the example of Poland, Hungary, on another matter, so let me just remind you that, of course, Poland and Hungary already have this kind of defensive cooperation with the United States. When I said it's a shame that the opposition SPD doesn't understand it, it's a shame, even because I remember the time of this Chamber of Deputies, when the SPD at least verbally took care of the security of the Czech Republic, when you were interested in strengthening your defence, investing in the military, using the latest technologies, and from your last performances, whether it's Mošnov, whatever else it is that we talked about here and about this defence, I'm afraid you want to weaken our army now, weaken our security, and also create a country from the Czech Republic that will have no allies that will not have a functioning army and have no will to defend themselves. And those are things I certainly don't want. We want a country that has a strong own security defense policy, a defense that is based on a functioning modern army, and which also has allies to rely on and who can rely on. And I see such allies in the North Atlantic Alliance. As far as the contract is concerned, the contract does not contain - and I say it again and I will repeat it, but I would not have to, it is enough to look at it - it does not contain any decision on a particular American presence in the Czech Republic or a decision on the establishment of military bases. Now I'm not looking at how they do it in other countries, we're just doing it. The contract doesn't contain anything like that. Its purpose is only to create conditions for cooperation in the future. As this cooperation will take place in specific areas, both countries must agree on this again and always more specifically. [[15.10 hours]] The treaty does not disturb any of the provisions that we have in our legal order and in our constitution. Article 2 (1) (a) 43 Constitution of the Czech Republic on who can give consent to the residence of foreign troops. We still have all the provisions we have here. This isn't about the contract at all. The treaty is a classic international treaty concluded between two sovereign states. Its approval is - and this is also important - not a treaty that the government itself can decide, that is the so-called presidential treaty. This means that this contract is subject to the approval of the Czech Government, the Parliament of the Czech Republic and subsequently ratification by the President of the Republic. It is approved in accordance with the Constitution of the Czech Republic, with the conditions laid down by the Constitution. Even as part of the negotiation of the contract, all the rules of the negotiating approval process were respected. The approval process will pass in accordance with the Constitution of the Czech Republic. The final decision of the Czech Republic will be sovereign, unenforced, ours, and that is also essential.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u29	The Member is still interested in speaking with an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Well, Prime Minister, we, as the SPD movement, have never voted for the army to take money, which I would clearly like to emphasise here. Your answer didn't satisfy me, because I asked you about the interpretation clause. This question has not been answered at all, and I am asking you clearly if you can say here on the microphone that no American base will be here. The answer is clear: yes or no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u31	The Prime Minister is interested in getting off, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u32	I think we should really listen to each other, otherwise it would be pointless. It's not pointless, because the public is looking at it, so people get a picture of themselves. But I did answer you, Mr. Ambassador. We don't need a clause because the treaty doesn't create conditions, it doesn't make any decisions, it doesn't make any decisions about a particular American presence or a decision to set up military bases. It's just that the contract doesn't bring anything like that, it doesn't even allow it. Further steps would have to follow, which we have clearly defined in the Constitution and in other laws and which are very complicated. This does not allow the Government to decide on such fundamental matters concerning the security of defence of the Czech Republic. Even this treaty, I say it once again, even if Parliament approves it, the President signs it, all relatively strict conditions for the approval of an international treaty at the presidential level will be fulfilled, so even then there will be no possibility for American bases to be here under this treaty or American soldiers to stay here. There is no such thing as a treaty, so there is no reason to accept a clause or anything like that. The treaty speaks clearly what is its content, what is possible and - and I can guarantee it ten times here, repeat it, but I don't know if you would have heard me if I had done it five more times - this treaty doesn't provide any possibility for one American soldier to stay here without any further agreement and approval by all the respective constitutional institutions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u33	Thank you and please another Mrs Karla Maříková, who has been logged in and won. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, the COO coalition before the elections promised: "We insist that each country of the European Union be free to choose its own migration policy and access to asylum seekers, reject mandatory quotas and promote solutions outside the borders of the European Union." Minister of the Interior of your Government Vít Rakušan for STAN approved a migration agreement without the mandate of the Chamber of Deputies and citizens of the Czech Republic, according to which a country refusing to accept migrants will pay nearly CZK 500,000 for each runner. Moreover, if Brussels considers it appropriate, it may raise this amount as it pleases. In the vote they were against Maďar and Polák, the vote was abstained from Slovakia, Malta, Lithuania and Bulgaria, but your government was in favour from the start. It is scandalous that one servile politician dares to decide the fate of 10 million people without being assigned to do so. It's another betrayal of your citizens and your voters who have fallen for your better and given you a vote. Minister of the Interior Vít Rakušan sold our country, and thanks to your government, we have again lost a piece of sovereignty and the opportunity to freely decide on the number of migrants who will live with us. They are citizens of the Czech Republic who are to decide who will live in their country, your government has not been given a mandate to do so. Prime Minister, I therefore ask whether the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan has been given your consent directly to approve this agreement and to sell it to the Czech Republic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u35	Thank you. In the meantime, I will read further apologies: Mrs Adámková from 15 o'clock without giving any reason, Mr Hájek Jiří from 13.30 for working reasons, Mr Jiří Horák from 14.30 for work reasons, Mr Antonín Tesařík from 15 to 16.30 for work reasons and Mr Milan Wenzl from 15 o'clock for health reasons. You have your word, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u36	I see that it is certainly a good thing that we are talking here about this agreement that concerns migration, because there is clearly a lack of understanding and a lack of understanding of what has actually been approved and what has been agreed. So I'm sure it's a good thing we have the opportunity to explain it over and over again. Thus, this agreement is an agreement that - if it is approved, it is not yet approved, it is also necessary to say - would finally allow illegal migration to be dealt with and would finally fulfil what we have been calling for in the long term, here I am speaking for the Civil Democratic Party, and that is, to improve migration policy, to improve asylum policy, to introduce a return policy, so that we can effectively protect the external borders of the European Union, the Schengen area, so that we do not have to carry out controls within the Schengen area, to address problems with third countries, to address them at the point of conflict, and a number of other and other things that we have long wanted. At the same time, this treaty or agreement does not introduce mechanisms against which we have long defined and defended ourselves, such as mandatory relocations, because we think that such a mechanism would be wrong, inhumane and would cause a whole range of other problems. All of this includes the agreement and it is therefore certainly a good thing that the Czech Republic was involved in its design or approval. When I say it is a good thing that the Czech Republic was involved in this, it is because it contains or that we have also been able to agree that compulsory solidarity will not apply to us at a time when we are burdened with solving problems with a large number of refugees from Ukraine, and that, on the contrary, at a time when the temporary protection mechanism will pass away and people from Ukraine will seek asylum from us, the solidarity mechanism will apply to us. From this point of view, it is a good thing that we participated in this agreement, that what the Czech Republic has negotiated is clearly set out in the annex to the agreement, and I think that this is in line with our country's long-term interests and with what we have promised, whether the ODS or the SOLU coalition. With regard to the mandate that the Interior Minister had and the Home Secretary also informed the government about the development of the situation and how it will proceed, but that this is a long-term problem, that we are talking about things that are simply given by some rules. When someone thinks that a government mandate is approved for every council, it's just not like that. The mandate is given by the government's framework position, which then applies in the long term to this issue. This means that we are following up on the framework position of the government of Andrej Babiš here, and the framework position gave the mandate to the Minister of the Interior, if I wanted to use that deadline, the mandate was very clear and the objectives of the framework position were also met. [[15.20 hours]] I'm just going to point out the amount of mandatory solidarity discussed here, as the government's long-term framework position, this is from 2018, it looked. I quote only two sentences: "The Czech Republic will promote a wider grip on solidarity during the discussion, which should offer as extensive a range of support options for affected Member States as possible." I said, is that the result? Well, it's the result! We have three ways to apply this solidarity. Furthermore, this framework position states: "The Czech Republic may agree to a mandatory flexible solidarity mechanism, but only provided that the obligation of direct or deferred persons is not determined in the case of redistribution of persons. " End of the quotation of the framework position of the Czech Republic approved in 2018. Is it done? It's done! There is no obligation for direct or deferred redistribution of persons in the approved agreement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u37	Thank you. The Member still has an interest in speaking with an additional question. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Prime Minister, how can you live with that when you've betrayed your constituents so many times? Do you think anyone else will believe you in the next election? And when will you come before the public and evaluate your promises, or rather your lies?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u39	The Prime Minister is interested in responding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u40	Well, it's pretty simple whether someone betrayed their constituents or betrayed whether he fulfilled the promises he told them if he was making a policy they liked, that's up to who? I think we both know, Madame, that's what voters decide. This is not decided by the opposition party, nor is it decided by anyone, although more educated, more self-employed, it is decided only by voters. That is why we also answer to them in the elections, which is why we all have, this does not apply to this government, this applies to every government, which is why we also have the scope to implement policy, our policy for which voters have given us a mandate. That is why we also have time to take, for example, the measures that we consider right at the moment and which are difficult to explain in the short term, need not be completely popular, which we believe are right, in the interests of our voters. And then we have time to say to the voters, "This is what we have done, this is what we have failed, this is what we want to do next, give us trust." And the voters will either do it or they won't. I think this is easy. You certainly have the opportunity to criticize us, you have the opportunity to offer alternative solutions. I'm waiting for those alternative solutions, by the way, and I'd like to talk about them, but I'm afraid you don't even have clearance, and it's really no use if you say we betrayed our constituents. You voted for us? Did you vote for us, madam? Well, I don't think so, so please leave it to our voters. They are able to evaluate, without instructions and without your recommendations, whether we are doing policies they like or not. And if we don't do it, they'll let us know. And if they like it, we'll continue to rule, which, of course, you won't like.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u41	Thank you, and another of the applicants is Mr Radek Rozvoral.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, my question to you as Prime Minister of the Czech Republic is: Why did you decide to enforce an increase in real estate tax up to double when you promised before the elections that you would not increase taxes to citizens? You realize you were actually lying publicly, and now you can't even admit it? On top of that, I must add that in the government's programming statement, on the basis of which you have gained confidence from the Chamber of Deputies, you state that this is the fulfillment of a programme which considers the five coalition political parties to be essential for the Czech Republic to be able to compete with other developed countries and to ensure a safe existence and an ever-increasing standard of living for its citizens in the long term. You also mention that you do not close your eyes to the problems that people have in our country, and housing has been one of them recently. Directly stated in the programme statement, I quote: "We will bring solutions that will help both ownership and rental housing, including social housing. " End of quote. So an increase in property tax is your help to our citizens with housing? Thank you, and I'd like to ask the Prime Minister for a response. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u43	Thank you, and I'd like to ask the Prime Minister for a response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u44	Thank you for asking. First of all, let's not try to create the impression that real estate tax decides whether there are better housing conditions, whether young people have a perspective on getting an apartment or not. The problems that we have here and that are long-term, why there aren't enough apartments built, why there isn't enough housing capacity for young families and young people, that's completely different. And we're removing a number of the causes that are here and which the professional public has already identified. And here I say, sometimes we remove them together, sometimes our government removes them. One of the obstacles, certainly and much greater than the real estate tax, was the real estate tax. This tax has been abolished. In the end, the debate about who pushed for it was already going on here, and here I think it was a good example of cooperation across the political spectrum. With regard to other obstacles, such as complicated building procedures, we were one of the countries where the construction procedure lasted the longest, so we also made significant progress and significant changes here. As far as building is concerned, another thing that might make it easier is that we have put construction work related to the acquisition of new housing at the lowest rate of value added tax. So there are concrete steps our government is taking to improve people's situation and perspective that they can get their own apartment. This is one topic and really, real estate tax will not cause problems with the acquisition of a new apartment. Why are we introducing this tax, and what does that tax look like? Yeah, well, I'd love it if we didn't have to raise any taxes, and I'm not hiding it, but the situation is what it is. We are approaching a certain increase in some taxes without increasing the overall tax burden - we have reduced 30 billion, we will increase 31 billion tax revenues. At the same time, we're consolidating more on the expense side. Next year, it's one third on the revenue, two thirds on the expense page. All of this is somehow consistent with what our policy's long-term priorities are. But I say again, yes, if we didn't have to take any tax, it would be just fine, but we're not in that situation. As far as real estate tax is concerned, in most cases it has a fixed rate of tax, i.e. in the case of maintaining tax rates at the same level, it is actually reducing in relative terms to both wage and price growth. Most tax rates are fixed. In 2010, most of them increased to double, but some rates did not change the entire existence of the Real Estate Tax Act. If you look abroad, the Czech Republic has a negligible share of real estate tax collection on GDP. In this key indicator, we are 36th from 37 OECD countries. 36th place in 37 countries! And even if we increase the tax, as we assume, we'll still be somewhere in the 20th or how many places, we'll definitely not get between countries with significant tax burdens. [[15.30 hours]] I cannot even agree that the tax will increase twice as much. In some cases, yes, in other cases, no, because this is related to how the coefficient is applied to the municipality. We're not actually interfering with the local coefficient, but we're introducing a state-owned part of the tax that will be 100% of the state's income. So far, this tax is loss-making for the state in the sense that its administration, which is carried out by the financial authorities, costs CZK 1.2 billion a year, collection is a 100% income for municipalities. The income will remain, the municipal budgets will not harm it, but we will have more resources in the state budget. For citizens, this is usually an increase in hundreds of crowns per year. That's what needs to be said.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u45	Thank you and please the Member if he is still interested in an additional question? You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u46	Thank you for your answer, Prime Minister. Do you really think that this proposal is not antisocial to our decent and working citizens, when most of them still pay off their properties while at the same time dealing with high inflation and high energy and food prices? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u47	Thank you. The Prime Minister will respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u48	At the same time, the State must have the means to help people who need help here, the State must have the means to do things like that, such as putting energy prices down, the State must have the means to have good education, to have a good transport infrastructure, everything that citizens require of it. But to really imagine what that tax increase means, and if it really weighs on some family so that they can't handle it, let's imagine what it means in practice. The average apartment of 70 square meters in Brno - today the owner of such an apartment pays about 600 crowns a year when there is a basic coefficient. Today, if we introduce a new tax, they will pay CZK 1,200 a year, CZK 600 a year. In Prague apartment Praha 1 tax 1 700 CZK per year, newly 2 500 CZK. In Ostrava, in Pilsen the tax varies according to the urban parts, in both cities it can reach a maximum of 770 crowns, newly approximately 1,450. I give this in the example of a 70-meter apartment, and I give the amounts that the owner of this apartment will pay per year. And we need to realise that if a local municipality applies a coefficient of 3, it collects three times the basic rate, and by introducing a state contribution, the tax will increase by one third, or not in all cases double, but on specific figures you have seen how much it will cost a particular owner.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u49	Thank you and please the next envoy, and this is Mr. Oldřich Černý.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I appeal to you, Prime Minister, in connection with your recent trip to Asia, when you, among other things, visited Indonesia. In your statement you spoke about negotiating cooperation for Czech companies. That's quite all right. But since you are also responsible for the Czech Republic's operation, I wonder if you, as Prime Minister of our country, have also discussed the opposite cooperation? Let me explain briefly. I also looked at the construction project of the new capital, which is supposed to be eight times larger than Prague. Although construction only started last year, the construction of the most important government buildings and housing for the first 60,000 officials with families on the important date of the country - next August 17th - is to be completed. That's a year and two months. Given the speed of progress, the question of helping the very experts is directly offered, for example, about the completion of the Czech Republic's communications. Unbuilt backbone network of motorways, inconvenient condition of first and second class roads, pitiful state of troikas, which can hardly be driven between municipalities, is the reality of the Czech Republic. The modernization of D1, which is only a grain of sand compared to the Indonesian project, takes decades. The highway to Vienna is still in the realm of dreams, bypasses of many cities in sight and so on. For many years, citizens hear only promises in the media, then what's being remade, who's stolen what's gone wrong, what's gone wrong and all that. Everything's falling apart here in real life. Yet in the programme statement you refer to the Czech Republic as a modern country. So my question: Don't you think it would be good to use the experience and knowledge of experts from Indonesia? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u51	Thank you, and I'd like to ask the Prime Minister for a response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u52	Thank you for reminding me of my trip to the countries of Southeast Asia and to the Pacific region, the states gathered in ASEAN. And then there was the second part about the countries of Central Asia. Undoubtedly, this trip has brought concrete results for the Czech Republic and Czech companies and I am glad. It opens up a huge number of opportunities and cooperation, which we can talk about in more detail. The situation of these countries is very strange and, to a large extent, fascinating in the fact that most of those countries that I have had the opportunity to visit - and we have chosen very carefully and include Indonesia - are going through large population growth, very quickly - Indonesia is, I think, the fourth largest country in the world today - the population is increasing there, which, of course, creates problems and creates new opportunities. At the same time - Indonesia is an example of this, even more tangible or more pronounced example is Vietnam - there is a very significant rapid economic growth, even year-on-year. čili these are countries that are also interesting for foreign investors and foreign cooperation. At the same time, it is an area that creates an entirely natural alternative to China, both in terms of the economy and in terms of strategic raw materials, mineral wealth and other things. These countries are also aware of this and are interested in developing, interested not only in being suppliers of minerals or raw materials, but interested in using their wealth, and this needs to be an example of Indonesia, as well as in building end projects. That is why it is very important that in these forward-looking countries, those countries that are gradually becoming the center of interest for foreign investors, we are on time and create a political space for our companies to be able to apply to these countries' markets, and I will not hide the importance of political support in a number of areas in these countries. That's a good one. There are really great opportunities for our companies, not only the very successful and long-term success - especially in recent months - the defence industry, but there is a prospect of good cooperation for our companies dealing with transport infrastructure, there is a perspective for the space industry, in which the Czech Republic is also strong, and there are other areas in which we can and have cooperation. When it comes to learning from these countries that you are calling for, it is always very complicated. I would not like to compare the situation of individual states with the situation of the Czech Republic, the living standards of people, the quality of infrastructure - and infrastructure we do not just mean motorways, but we mean of course everything else, including the social, health, school system and everything that creates quality of life. That's not our job. [[15.40 hours]] What we can all certainly look at is the conviction that critical infrastructure needs to be built and that transport infrastructure and things need to be built that cannot only be handled by the private sector, which is the task of the state. And we are aware of that, the Czech Republic is extremely far away in many matters and is one of the most successful countries, but we are certainly not far enough away on one thing, we are not as far away as we would like, and this is a need for good transport infrastructure, be it motorways, roads or high-speed lines. And it is in this neglected area that our government is putting great effort into. That is why we are working on a number of projects that develop the road and highway network, which is why we are finally trying to create the conditions for us to have high-speed lines so that we can be connected in this way with other countries in Europe. We create legislative conditions, this is important, and I thank everyone who cooperates on this, but we also create financial conditions. In this year's budget, we have a record amount for transport infrastructure of CZK 150 billion. It's never been here in the past. And that is exactly what we need to do to ensure that we also have the transport infrastructure as best we can.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u53	Thank you, Prime Minister, and I ask an additional question if it is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u54	Thank you for the answer, we could read it and read it in the media. Prime Minister, you misunderstand me. I think - I'll take one of your answers - I think it's your job to run this country, and then you're surprised that we're critical of you. Now it seems to me that all you want to do is talk about it and talk about what you're gonna do, what's right, what's wrong, what's wrong, and so on. I would like to hear from you the real answer to what I asked you. If I don't get it, don't be surprised that we already think you should cut a meter in this country - the whole government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u55	Will the Prime Minister respond?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u56	But I don't blame you for being critical, Mr. Ambassador. You're opposition, you're criticizing the government. I think that's logical. What I would expect is - and I think that this is the challenge of the opposition - not only to criticize but also to provide concrete solutions. In your question, I have no alternative proposal to speed up the construction of transport infrastructure, not to hear, but there were a lot of concrete things in my answer that we have done and we are doing, and the results are already coming and, of course, it will bring results and the future. And positive! A while ago, I was responding in a different interview to what we might be doing to improve the conditions for young people's housing, for people to have a perspective on getting an apartment. After all, this is something that people are interested in, and there I answered very specifically. So I think the problem isn't in my answers, but the problem is whether you really listen and want to hear what I'm saying. But I repeat once again, if you have concrete ideas and solutions to improve infrastructure in the Czech Republic, how quickly we get to have high-quality roads, high-speed railways, so that we can simply be a country where the mobility of citizens can be high and uninterrupted, which is important because we are also removing regional differences and improving the situation in disadvantaged areas, so please come with these proposals, we will be happy to talk about them. But we're also okay with the fact that you don't have such suggestions, that you criticize us. It's the role of the opposition, and I'm not really offended by it, and I'm not surprised by what you're saying.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u57	Thank you for your answers and please join us, and this is Mrs Táňa Malá. Tatiana malý, to be more precise.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u58	Thank you for the floor, good afternoon. Dear Prime Minister, I would like to ask you about the statement made by Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura, which concerns the planned tax package, which has been addressed to me by many students and their parents. It is a statement that concerns students who feel very offensive because it says: "If a student earns more than CZK 206 000 per year on the brigades, each of us can answer whether a person who earns this annual amount actually studies or is only enrolled in the study to benefit from various advantages, that is, that they abuse the student's status, because they are registered only formally and do not study. " That is why I ask, Prime Minister, on what data does your finance minister dare claim this? Do you agree that a student who earns an average of 17,000 a month gross cheats and doesn't study? And is it the Minister of Finance's opinion, or is it the opinion of the entire government that you, as Prime Minister, represent here? By far not all students are from well-funded families and need clearly money to study at all. It has increased heat, energy, food, fare and many other items. Inflation in our country is under your leadership among the highest in Europe. How did you find out that they're just written down and using the system? Answers, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u59	Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u60	The question of students and discounts on students is important because there are a lot of confusion and incorrect interpretations around it, so thank you for asking. We could talk here for a long time about how to reconcile study with employment, and trust me, I know something about it, because I've been moving around most of my life in the academic environment. But I want to get to cancel the student tax discount so that we can really, once and for all, disprove the various speculations involved. The tax discount on a student who is constantly preparing for a future profession by studying or prescribed training, up to the age of 26 years or for the duration of the doctoral degree programme until the age of 28 years, is CZK 4 020 per year. Students who make extra money while studying, that is, are employed or maybe doing business, the possibility is also there, can continue to benefit from basic tax discounts on the taxpayer, which is currently 30 840 CZK. In the case of enterprising students, the standard rules for determining the tax apply. This includes, for example, the possibility of using expenditure as a percentage of income, flat-rate expenditure, or flat-rate taxes. For employed students, as well as for other employees, the possibility, on the basis of the employee's statement, to apply this tax discount on a pro rata basis, applies on a monthly basis. Parents of those who study can also continue to benefit from the tax advantage of a student dependent child living with him in a co-employed household of CZK 15, 204 and so on, according to the number of children, and the tax advantage may take place in addition to the tax discount and the form of a tax bonus. We have all of this here, and all of this remains preserved. By the way, the yield from the cancellation we're talking about here is about 300 million a year. From that you can see that it only affects a fraction of the people. But it's another item from such a long tax return and one of the other non-systemic exceptions that experts and a part of the public have called for cancellation, and we are applying it. The vast majority of students, and this is important, the vast majority of students who work, just need a standard discount on the taxpayer, who fully eliminates taxation at the personal income tax rate of 15 percent, for earnings up to CZK 205,000 per year, which corresponds to monthly earnings of CZK 17,000. [[15.50 hours]] So an additional discount on the student, and that's the discount on the student we're talking about here, that's actually an additional discount above that amount. Only those students with a higher income of CZK 17,100 per month will use it. On the contrary, those who have lower income, and this is the vast majority of students who work, will not take advantage of this tax discount at all. Of course, this does not apply to those who may receive a doctoral scholarship and benefit from income from the state in this form. This means that among those - and so it is necessary to understand the statement of the Minister of Finance - who receive or apply this discount, there are undoubtedly persons who have the status of a student only formally. This does not mean that they are all like this, and it is certainly not possible to label anyone this flatly, but there are not many who earn over 200,000 crowns a year and study at the same time. And if they make such amounts, they can certainly afford to pay a tax on this higher amount. But all other students, including those who may earn 15,000 a month, are not affected in any way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u61	Thank you. The honourable Member still has an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u62	I just thank you for your answer. Prime Minister, as former rector and academic, I really expected more from you. I don't have any more follow-up questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u63	Thank you. The Prime Minister wants to respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u64	If you would, Madame, say what you expected, I would certainly add that to you, because the subject is, of course, very broad. Maybe I should have said one more thing that didn't come out here, which is what our universities are worried about and which we can't really care about, but, of course, especially in universities, they would have done something about it, the rectors want to do something about it, and that's a high academic failure. This study failure tells us, among other things, that she does not only have the causes in the strictness of the study, that would be of course the best, but unfortunately she often has the causes of many students coming to college, but she does not actually devote themselves to full study, and that is something that can't work in the long run and that brings us down a little bit in international competition. So even study failure, all its possible causes, can also be a number of causes of socio-cultural and other, we have to deal with, and that is what universities honestly do. What I want to say and what is important is this change, which means that students who earn more than CZK 17,000 per month will not be able to apply the discount to students in the future, the cancellation of this discount does not endanger anyone in any way, does not limit anyone in any way in order to be able to study, it does not make his social situation worse. It merely removes one dysfunctional and, in a way, an unfair tax exemption, which unfortunately is still a lot in our tax system.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u65	Thank you, and please, Mrs. President Schillerová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u66	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Mr. Prime Minister, colleagues, according to the presented draft state budget of the Czech Republic for the year 2024 and the medium-term outlook for the summers 2025 and 2026, which are therefore far from being just in the quotation marks of technical and administrative material, the five-wheelers plan a fall in expenditure on science, research and innovation by one-tenth. This is gambling with our future and endangers our ability to keep pace with global development and innovation. From my point of view, the government run by a former university teacher, the rector of my alma mater, Masaryk University, should understand that. Blunt cuts on investment in science and research are not a real savings. You are thus only threatening our ability to compete and to bring innovation at international level. The Minister for Science, Mrs Langšádlová, rightly pointed out that such a reduction is a gamble with the future of the Czech Republic. Research and innovation are crucial for economic development, economic growth, increasing competitiveness, productivity and improving the standard of living of our citizens. I find it completely unacceptable to make excuses for the fact that this is an administrative proposal. The government is responsible for managing public finances and for setting priorities. Limiting investment in science and research is short-sighted and has negative long-term consequences. I therefore ask, Prime Minister, that you please explain how the government intends to ensure sufficient funding for science, research and innovation, what specific measures and investments the government is planning to take to support scientific research, technology development and strengthen cooperation between the academic sphere and industry. Thank you for your attention and I believe in an exhaustive answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u67	Thank you, Madam President. I ask the Prime Minister for an answer. I'm just pointing out that we can't handle any more interpellations for the Prime Minister today. We're about to switch to interpellation to individual members of the government. You have your word, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u68	Madam President of the House of Deputies, you certainly know this because you have drawn up some budgets, so no doubt you know how it is with the approval of budgets, but since everyone who is watching us does not need to know, it must be said that according to the law the Ministry of Finance must submit a draft state budget to the Government, which has happened for 2024, by the end of May, however - and this also follows from what I am saying - it is presented by the Ministry of Finance, but it is not material that would pass through the approval of the government. I agree with you on one thing. The Government is responsible for establishing the budget. Maybe at some point it was already prearranged, when the finance minister was the chairman of the movement or when he made a deal with you, you put it in the government, and then it was done, but we don't. We will get really official material from the Ministry of Finance, and now the government will discuss it and will draw up a budget that has all the parameters that the budget is supposed to have, which means it is professionally supported, but it also contains - and this is not contrary - political priorities, political goals and all the intentions that the government wants to implement must be reflected in this budget. Yes, this year's initial proposal - the excavation to say it to the public - brought great attention to the budget in connection with the recovery package. In other years, it kind of went through without more public attention, and in the end it was important what budget was approved, and only the government's priorities are reflected in it. When we talk about research, development and innovation and therefore the budget for science in general, we will only discuss what the budget will look like, just as we will discuss how the budget of each other chapter will look. And you ask me as a person, you said it yourself, the former rector of your alma mater and academic environment, we have more people in the government from the academic environment and with experience from Masaryk University, but that's not important. It is important, regardless of the person and the cast, that our government is convinced that education and science are priorities for our government, that these are priorities for the Czech Republic and that they need to be supported. And how exactly does that manifest itself? Well, this year, for example, we have increased the budget for education, namely education, by CZK 17 billion. Big year-on-year increase. And we did it because it's our priority. Where does the government's priority manifest itself? Speech? No. This is reflected, among other things, in how budget chapters are drawn up. CZK 17 billion in addition, an increase for universities, the largest annual budget increase for at least five years by 2.3 billion in this year's budget. [[16.00 hours]] The increase in research - by the way, research funds amount to CZK 50 billion. Even there was an increase over the great problems with the budget over CZK 1.2 billion, so these are specific figures already on the approved budget. Now I won't anticipate what the government will accept. The government is a collective body, we'll talk about it. I will certainly be the one who will commemorate the priorities of our government, including education and research. I don't know what the government will accept, but I know what the government has adopted, and the government has adopted this budget with these increases, concrete increases for research, development and innovation. Speaking of supporting research, I have now had several debates with the professional public, with the academic public, open discussions on how research needs to be supported, and one of the things that the scientific public, the scientific community, has long been calling for is improving legislative conditions for research, for technology transfer, for red tape reduction. This is what we are preparing after years in a completely new law on the promotion of research, development and innovation. The old so-called 100 has been in force for 20 years, has a lot of amendments, but a new law is needed. And that's what our government is working on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u69	Thank you, Prime Minister. There is an interest in an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u70	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister, can I understand your words by saying that science, research, is a priority for you, which means you're not going to let it drop by 10 percent? That education is your priority? I'm looking at the minister. [[Beka]] That means you're not gonna let 30 billion less than the cut? And please, just because I used to be the Finance Minister and I was responsible for the establishment of seven budgets, probably no minister will succeed thanks to the covido, so I know very well that this first draft budget, which you have to approve by the end of June and must be sent by the end of May, must always be approved by the Finance Minister before it goes to the government. That's not some clerk's material. No Treasury official would dare send material to the government without signing approval by a particular minister, in this case the Treasury Minister, so your finance minister, from your side, just made these cuts to make it work. I understand. [[Time.]] But I believe you'll at least give me a clear answer here that these are priorities for you and you won't let that happen. Thank you, that's enough for me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u71	Thank you. I've always given everyone a few more seconds today so we can finish it all. I'll leave you too, Prime Minister. You're watching very well. I'm leaving those five seconds behind. There you go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u72	It may have been different for you, and I say this with all due respect to my party colleague Zbyněk Stanjur, whose competence I greatly appreciate, and how the Ministry of Finance is running, but with us the Minister of Finance does not decide, the government decides. In our country, the government decides collectively and the government determines what the budget will definitely look like. We have a proposal, the proposal is based on the possibilities of the Czech Republic, it takes into account the budgetary situation, it is conducted by an effort to get the funds under control, the public budgets under control. In the end, our whole recovery package is heading towards this. But what will the budget of 2024 look like? And Mr. Finance Minister Zbyněk Stanjura wouldn't tell you anything else. That's what the government will be discussing and deciding. And if you're asking whether I can say that research and education are our government's priorities, and if I can confirm that, yes, I can confirm that. These are priorities, as is the priority of security and defence, as is the priority of energy security, as is the priority of the completion of transport infrastructure, maybe I forgot something. These are our government's clear priorities. And the fact that they are priorities must somehow be reflected in the state budget. The fact that the situation is complicated - well, it is. If it weren't for us to take over public finances and state budgets in better shape, we wouldn't have to do such a recovery package and we wouldn't have to go through everything we're going through. But we're doing it with respect to the future, because we're a responsible government. And because we think about the future, we want education to develop, to develop research, to invest in transport infrastructure, to defend ourselves, to do things that are not just now, but that are also important for living well in the coming years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u73	I thank the Prime Minister for all the answers and all the Members for the questions. At this point, there will be interpelations on the other members of the government, and I will take turns with my colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u74	Thank you, too, and hello warmly. You all have a quiet afternoon. And now I call on Mr Ladislav Oklešťek to present his intervention on Mr Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Marian Jurečka, and to initiate a block of government members' replies to the interpelation of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u75	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, Prime Minister, members of the government and dear and dear colleagues who have had the strength and perseverance, I would like to intervene with Minister Jurečka because I am being visited and contacted by citizens who have decided to retire early in the autumn of 2022 on the basis of the recommendation of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. They listened, they did everything they were supposed to, but somehow their retirement didn't go. Fortunately, these cases are already rare. But even so, the first pensions started, or at least those who contacted me, they used to come to them sometime in May. And I would like to ask: these people will, of course, get their pension backwards, but they must continue to pay health insurance and have not yet received their pension notice. They received two notices of valorisation, but they didn't receive a pension notice, and when they went to the health insurance company with the notice of valorisation, they wanted to ask not to actually have to pay backups - advances from their own, and unfortunately not small, with the delay in pensions they put them in an adverse economic situation. And I have to say, the people at the health insurance company treat them very well, but they can't accommodate them. They say, yes, we'll send it back to you when you have your retirement notice. And the Minister promised in public space that he would report to health insurance companies, about 14 days ago, three weeks ago, so that this situation wouldn't happen, and she happens all the time. I ask, Minister, what measures will you take to put an end to this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u76	Thank you. I will just announce that the Minister is duly excused, so he will come forward in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure in writing within 30 days. Mr Julius Špičák will speak with the next interview and Mrs Lenka Knechtová will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u77	Madam President, my dear colleagues, I must say that sometimes I do not believe in my own ears, given what the Prime Minister has presented here about the financing of health care. So, quite objectively, science and research are not blooming in our country. Charles University is 250th in the ranking of European universities. In front of it are the universities of Cyprus, Greece, Portugal, the Baltic Republics, Budapest. We're short on ERC grants. Our research is in multiples worse objectively than research in comparable countries such as the size of Holland or Israel or Austria. That's an objective matter. And it must be said, objectively, that, in our government, basically, investment in science and research has reached a record level. The previous President has written a Country for Future, essentially a concept of research. The Prime Minister became President of the Council for Science and Research, which was therefore a very strong appeal. Unfortunately, covid came back then and paralysis occurred essentially all of our activities including research. [[16.10 hours]] I would like to remind you that the coalition agreement of the current government states that science and research have indisputable support. In the programming declaration, it undertakes to increase expenditure on research, development and innovation. But that did not happen. The budget for the Academy of Sciences - proposed - is reduced by 10 per cent, the grant agency budget of the Czech Republic is reduced by 10 per cent, as well as by 12 per cent. I have no idea how the Academy of Sciences will function under current inflation. So I would like to turn to the Minister, and next time I will turn directly to the Prime Minister, how he will defend his position in the government if he is unable to ensure that the Minister of Finance provides sufficient funding for the resort. [[Time.]] [[Time, please.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u78	Thank you for your intervention, again in accordance with the Rules of Procedure will be answered in writing within 30 days, as the Minister is duly excused. Mrs Lenka Knechtová will speak with the next interview, and Mr Igor Hendrych will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u79	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. I submit an interpelation - the abolition of state aid for pension savings for old-age pensioners. Dear Minister, on Wednesday the Government approved an amendment which, in addition to introducing new possibilities for old-age provision and adjustment of contributions, envisages the abolition of State aid for pension savings for people who have been granted an old-age pension. According to the Ministry of Finance, this is really about 750,000 out of 4.36 million clients of pension companies. They claim that the number of people concerned will be even higher. We see it as an unfortunate decision. It would affect an estimated million people who may lose their motivation to save further and collect money unnecessarily prematurely. "If the pensioner still manages to save or invest, he makes a pillow for later periods of his pension, which will be more demanding in terms of health and social care costs. And these responsible people should be supported by the state," said the President of the Association of Pension Companies. Can you please shed some light on the situation? I believe that people need to be motivated to save and not limit their ability to save. Your senior so-called pension reform does not work with any motivation to save, which is a great shame. With higher inflation and lower valorisations, seniors are barely going to make a living, and they would find their own savings very useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u80	Thank you very much for keeping time. Once again, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, it will be answered within 30 days. I will now call on another performer, Mr Igor Hendrych, and then Mr Karel Rais will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u81	Hello, Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. I'm gonna lighten things up a little bit. I am pleased to be able, after 18 years, to meet with me as Vice-Rector of Masaryk University, as Minister Bek, to present myself with a red diploma, face-to-face with him on behalf of the then Rector, who is the Prime Minister. Now to the point, Minister. A while ago, I was quite intensively communicating with your predecessor, Minister Balaš, and we talked about how he dealt with, or how he would like to deal with the issue of low wages in universities, which resulted in basically some specific protests by academics in the Czech Republic, which you know very well about, because just as I mentioned at the beginning, you come from an academic environment and so on. And I know that you discussed it with the government, I know that Minister Balaš had some visions in this area, he wrote about it to the media and so on. Now I have a feeling or a sense that it's gone quietly, that this subject isn't talking too much about it in public space, and I don't know what you're going to do with this feeling, so I'm going to interpel you here to tell me what vision you have in this area, what you're going to do about it, whether you've taken any of the ideas from your predecessor, or do you have any of your own? I think that this is a rather serious problem, because it is probably not ideal for academic workers to often take lower salaries in universities - or there are wages - than teachers in primary and secondary schools and so on. So I'm hoping you can tell me something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u82	Thank you and now the Minister of Education Mikuláš Bek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u83	Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, thank you for the question. I have had the opportunity to discuss the problem in recent weeks with both the Czech Rectors' Conference and today with the Council of universities, with the higher education unions, with the school unions. I have to start from the fact that I'm not actually sure there's any problem at system level. I will introduce you to the level of salaries in each category at least orientedly at universities last year. Professional assistants receive in public universities between CZK 45 and 62,000 a month, professors 20 to 30,000 more, and professors' salary ranges from - in some exceptional situations - 71 to 130,000 a month. I think that at the level of this system, there are several dysfunctions, especially in art schools, the level of salaries is significantly lower, we have to pay very much attention to this, but in principle, for the whole university, the level of pay, according to my opinion, is an adequate situation in other public sectors, and I have to say that the salary of teachers without managers was somewhere around 48,000 last year. That's for everyone, from junior to senior. While an assistant who has a comparable salary, rather higher, is still more at the beginning of his academic career and should always habilitate in the foreseeable future, so from my point of view, the problem is more likely to be hidden inside universities. And here's what needs to be said. In terms of international comparison according to the European University Association, Czech universities have an exceptional degree of autonomy in matters of wage and financial and personnel. Almost no one else has such a degree of freedom, and with freedom comes responsibility. And I am convinced and I have told the rectors that some universities have allowed an asocial degree of differentiation within those schools, on a proposal from the rectors, and with the approval of the Chambers, they approve budgets that are unfair. This concerns only a limited number of universities, some universities - to my surprise in the past, I, as the rector, have never agreed to this, and I would not have done so - adopted wage regulations that allow different tariffs for people with the same qualifications. I can't imagine how this went through collective bargaining with them, we would never let anything like this happen at Masaryk University. I think it shows a certain failure of academic self-government. I'm aware of the causes. They say that we have set up funding in too many frames, which complicatedly allow the transfer of funds to preserve some kind of social cohesion for the universities. Part of the blame is the 30-year system of funding universities and research in our country, but academic self-government plays a crucial role. And I said very clearly to my colleagues - I am still a part-time pawn at my university - that we have to choose. I've been a member of the Augsburg University Council for years. There is no Senate, there is a university council with half of the external members, the number of places is decided by the Ministry of Education and also sets salaries for those people. And I am prepared to offer the university in the law alternatives to governance - either they choose freedom and responsibility, or slavery to the state, but then they will be able to decide what the costs are and in what programs how many people teach how many students as they are internationally normal. We have to choose. Be freedom, and I think it's right, I've always defended it, really even in a confrontation with anyone, including the president, I'm a supporter of that autonomy, but then the autonomy must go with responsibility, including social responsibility. I think we have a tool to help this, I'm ready to introduce into the standards of accreditation requirements for some evaluation of these people, I don't think the one who doesn't pay well teacher can run the study program. I think we need to give an incentive to universities in some indicators so that wage differentiation is a negative factor, because it has gone beyond those borders, and I am ready to look for tools to help reform the personnel management of universities in the future. But for the clear commitments of change for the better, I do not think that by pouring any amount of funding into the existing system we will achieve any result. [[Time.]] Thank you for the question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u84	Thank you and I see that the Member will ask an additional question - that is the case. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u85	Thank you, Minister. I think I'm very satisfied, let's say, with your words. So I hope that this will somehow move on and the changes you are talking about or which you have in mind will gradually be realized. I don't think I'm gonna be the only one to watch it and ask you any more questions, and it doesn't necessarily be here in this format, we can talk about it if you agree, sometimes here in the galleys or whatever the problem is, which I'm interested in. I completely agree, and I would conclude that this is the choice between academic freedom - I am basically also working on academic ground - and the directive of the state that it should be somehow balanced and so on. On the other hand, it should be borne in mind that real public universities, in particular, offer some public property, which should essentially be subject to some kind of state supervision. On the one hand, the State should admit the files, on the other hand, it should actually monitor whether the public funds are adequately redistributed and whether the public property.... Okay. [[Time.]] [[Time, please.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u86	I understand the Minister will still respond. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u87	Just a quick reaction. I welcome the debate, I'm prepared for it both on the school committee and informally on any circuit. It's an important subject. Let us just look for instruments that are compatible with the current concept of academic freedom, or let us look for other instruments, but I think that academic self-government, which also manages the efficiency of its institutions, has a real key role here. When you look at differences that can no longer necessarily relate to historical coefficients that play a small role in the system of financing, it actually raises questions of the real quality of management of individual faculties and individual universities very urgently. Thank you, but I'm ready for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u88	Thank you very much. We will now proceed to the next interview, the next interviewer will be Mr Karel Rais, and then Mr Milan Feranec will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u89	Thank you. Madam Secretary, dear colleagues, I would like to address the issue of funding science and research. In 2021, for the first time, the Czech Republic reached a limit of 2% of GDP of total R & D spending, and this happened during the government of the ANO movement. Unfortunately, there is no such optimistic data for the budget proposal for 2024; one-tenth of the research expenditure will be reduced compared to the budget for 2023. This means, for example, that universities will lose about 2.1 billion in research, the Academy of Sciences will lose 600 million, the Technology and Grant Agency will lose 1.2 billion in total. I have a question about what will the Minister and the people around her who are responsible for science and research, what will they do to get back to the growth of funds in the field of science and research, how have we been able to do in 2021? And the second question: Is it real to achieve, at least to avoid further declines in funds in the field of science and research? I took those previously quoted data from the June 2024, consolidation package, where there is talk of reducing expenditure on science and research by about 10 percent for 2024. Of course, this caused a turbulent negative reaction. Here I can quote, for example, the Rector of Charles University, Mrs Králíčková, who said that Czech higher education currently lacks about CZK 10,5 billion a year, further reduction of expenditure on science and research, of course, criticises. This is how I could take any Stakeholder who essentially appear in the field of science and research. [[Time, please.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u90	I also thank you very much and repeat that the Minister is duly excused and the reply will be sent in writing within 30 days. Mr Milan Feranec will give the following interview and Mr Hubert Lang will prepare himself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u91	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I find it somewhat inefficient to ask the absent minister, so this is my surrender. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u92	Copy that. We are therefore going to interpel Mr Hubert Lang and then Mr Patrik Nacher will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u93	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I called my interpelation certain cases of the STAN movement - the Legitimateness of the Interior Minister Austrian in the Government. I will not argue here whether the government is legal - yes, the government is legal, and, Minister, I do not know if your performance as the first vice-president of this government is already legitimate. If we look at certain results, 63 percent of the population of the Czech Republic does not trust this government. This government has been the worst in 12 years. If we look at other statistics, your evaluation from the perspective of the survey of the year and a half in the Ministry of the Interior, you get a grade - from Grade 1 to Grade 5 - 3.9. In general, in a long-term survey, your STAN movement is at 5,8. My first question is simple. Are you satisfied with the way in which STAN and you, the first Deputy Prime Minister, represent this ruling coalition? Do you think the results I read here are okay? And to fill up some of the interpellation. From the very beginning of the STAN movement is accompanied by opaque financing, it was companies from Cyprus, then the Dosimeter action took place, various policy and business connections, some incoherent things, bribes, appointments, not naming the director of the UZS, then the exchange of the police president at a time when you were only a nominee for the position of Minister of the Interior, you were just doing certain personnel things, a huge anabase around the Czech Post, which is constantly dragging. Then other things of yours, such as different performances, were the bag on Putin at the Ministry of the Interior, the solution to the entire problem of lex Ukraine. And at the very end - unfortunately, we didn't have time to compete yesterday, even though I was the first to sign up - it's a framework position of government that I don't even believe in between the eyes when the Prime Minister said so, and even the Treaty of compulsory solidarity. I hope it comes to that, so thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u94	Thank you very much, even for keeping time. Mr. Vice Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior Vít Rakušan will now speak with his response. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u95	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, through Madam Vice-President. Let me start with a joke: when I saw a list of today's intercessors, when my kids are asking me what I got for the holiday in the House tonight, I'm gonna say, "Hubert Lang," because he's the MP who put six or seven of them on me today, we're gonna have a conversation. And I think we're gonna talk about more interesting things and you're gonna get to interpellings that make some sense with forgiveness, and they're gonna have some substance. Here, in the interpelling of politicians, what they say about the results of the poll, what they say about the results of the election and their support, that's kind of a weird question. Well, I'll answer you, Mr. Ambassador, and I hope we can get... [[Mr Lang is speaking with Mr Nacher.]] Thank you, I'm trying to answer you, so maybe it's good if you'd listen to me, since you've already asked me, thank you. We hope to get back on the growth trajectory, that's normal in politics. Once you're down, once you're up. And I don't think we're that bad between the parties, we're about 7 percent of stable surveys on average from what's going on right now. Of course, we would like to be higher. Thank you so much for worrying about the STAN movement, and I can promise you, on behalf of the STAN movement, that we will do everything we can to get back into this growth, from some method of our work, as we prepare for it, Mr. Ambassador. We are preparing our European candidate very well, in the regional elections we will defend four hetman posts, that is more than in the case of the ANO movement. We look forward to it and hope to defend it. We have strong regions and look forward to a fair fight in these elections. What else can I tell you about the STAN movement? Unlike all parties and movements that had cases like Stoka and the like, we cleared our funding. We returned all our donations after analysing our funding for charitable purposes. We had one criminally prosecuted, yet unconvicted politician, I emphasize one, I think there were three in the Stoka case, if I'm not mistaken, with the party affiliation YES. [[16.30 hours]] And most importantly, you see one thing in particular, Mr. Ambassador. As Home Secretary - and this gives me the legitimacy - I have never interfered with any examinations. Have you ever seen any article, any insights, any information that there's anything not transparent here that I'd be doing as Home Secretary to investigate? If so, say it, say it here on the microphone, and I'll ask you for any evidence. On the contrary, it usually happened in the history of this country that the minister who was in the ministry at the time of his ministership, on the contrary, was directly and openly investigating politics from his own movement. It didn't happen that often in the past. On the contrary, the police are working transparently. If we are not popular at this difficult time in which we are, it happens to governments. We hope to be on the growth trajectory in the next few years. It's kind of a wonderful question to ask, what do you say you're, you're not popular. I think that's why there's such a good institute in a democratic country that then measures the popularity, and that institute is called an election. You're a politician, I'm a politician, let's compete in elections, let's measure our popularity in elections, and then let's get to some kind of interpelation that has some rational basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u96	Thank you. There is an interest in the supplementary question of the Member, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u97	Thank you. So I am glad that I was - I wish you all the best for your holiday today - that you have assigned me to yourself for the feast, but I would like to say a relief in this matter, when, of course, I am not satisfied with how you have justified it. You were recently in Croatia, where you received the Order of Prince Trpimiro, certainly a worthy award that evokes this phrase, but I do not want to touch the Chorvat. The state that exists in our country, what is now happening here, and why we are also here, why I had this interpelation, one of the five today, a degree of suffering or rather the suffering that we are experiencing now, is also thanks to the co-government of STAN under the leadership of the first Vice Prime Minister of this five-blind government, Mr Vít Rakušan. This order was therefore granted to the right person, but I believe it was granted in the wrong state. By having this holiday today, I suggest that we introduce the Order of First-degree Suffering in the Czech Republic, and you should be the first carrier, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u98	Thank you for keeping time. I understand there's an interest in the reaction, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u99	Yes, a short reaction when we went into the humor that we have to read from the paper - such a prepared joke, but it worked quite well. So just a comment on that. Trpimir was a Croatian prince. It is one of the highest Croatian state honours that I have been granted for Croatia's entry into the Schengen area under our Presidency in the Council of the European Union, which the Czech Republic has greatly deserved. This agenda has not been opened in the last 11 years under any Presidency, Croatia has long been waiting for it. I appreciate it very much because we have brought great benefits here to Czech citizens. We know that the Croatian sea is almost our sea. Now, without having to wait at the Slovenian-Croatian border, they're gonna go through and enjoy their summer vacation. Okay, so it was one of the results of the European Presidency, the results of this government, which will certainly bring some benefits to Czech citizens as well. If the Chorvat appreciate it as our close friends, I certainly wouldn't make a mockery of their state honors. Maybe one day you'll get some.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u100	Thank you again for keeping time. We'll proceed to another interpellation. Mr Patrik Nacher will be the interviewer, and then Mrs Helena Válková will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u101	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleasantly surprised that the Minister is here. I don't think of it as an interpellation, but I'll take it as an education in this case. What's going on? It's actually about whether or not the car is in execution or being executed in the road vehicle register. I've been intersecting the Minister, and we've been dealing with it in some way, in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice. Then there was another case that even got chained up, that someone bought a car that was in execution, from someone who bought it himself before. That means it's chained up like this, and basically by not dealing with it, then it turns out it's about who has the černý Petr, or who's the honest one who reports it, so he loses the car, but he doesn't get the money back. I had one interview and received a written reply because the minister wasn't here. I just wanted to ask because I want to move it forward in cooperation with the Minister here. In this written interpelation it is stated that from the above - there is some description - it follows that the register of road vehicles is not the most appropriate or suitable means of displaying symptoms in execution. Conclusion: The Ministry of Transport recommends the creation of a single central register of executions carried out outside the Road Vehicle Register. Here's the written answer. In principle, I am relatively in agreement with this, so I would like to ask the Minister what to do or what to do together with the Ministry of Justice and what pressure to create to move this in some way, because, as I say, I am regularly heard from by the people who did this. It may not be thousands, it may be hundreds, maybe tens, but it's tens of thousands of crowns they're gonna lose. Actually, the point is, at the time of the digitization, it feels - and to me it seems - kind of like a simple thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u102	Thank you. Now, with the reaction, Minister of Transport Martin Kupka, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u103	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in particular the direct answer to that question. I would like to initiate a joint meeting of yours, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Transport with the fact that we will arrange it in the foreseeable future and ask for the participation of the Executive Chamber, which plays an important role in this. However, I will try to make it clear what the dog is buried in and why the Ministry of Transport does not give an evasive answer in this regard, only explains that our vehicle register, for example, is fundamentally different from the real estate register in its constitutive effects. The basic parameter of the difference is that, in the case of the real estate register, the item has the relevant owner at the moment when its ownership is entered into the register, whereas in the case of the vehicle register, it is only a registration tool and it is not for the person who is the registration authority to examine how the rights to the registration or registration are subsequently regulated. In this regard, we honestly say that it is essential to put it together in order to deal with and display the execution in our registry, to mirror it, but to do so we need a unified register of executions, because at this time part of the executions is conducted in the toll register of executions, i.e. the record of executions conducted by the Executive Chamber, and other executions are then conducted under the registers of courts or under the financial authorities. So we don't have a single source of information that we could use for the vehicle register. There would be a risk that we would not be able to guarantee the completeness and truthfulness of the information en bloc so as to detect any problems related to the execution given by another title or other decision. In this respect, we really see it as the only possible source of future, and this is the unified enforcement record that would allow the information to be reflected in the complete information in this regard, and we expect further that if it is mirrored like this in our vehicle register, it will still have a more informative character. I will stress why - because we do not have an instrument in how the registering authority, which is mostly an extended municipality, could influence the registration otherwise than simple information. If, within 10 days of the conclusion of the purchase contract, a person continues to insist that the vehicle is registered in his possession, appropriate registration shall be made, in the vehicle register, so that the registration authority has no way of preventing it. He must do so if he has at his disposal proof that the vehicle was actually taken for the benefit of the owner. This is one we cannot handle legally, because there is, of course, a determining act conducted under the Civil Code. However, I see it as useful that the information is available and that the future owner can get to it, even if it has a more or less informative character. [[16.40 hours]] In order to do so, we would also have to treat how it might be possible to ask ahead of the conclusion of the contract by buying and paying the amount, whether the vehicle in the register, which, in this case, is really only a registration role, is conducted or not. Then perhaps it would be more effective - we can reflect the information, but I say it would be more effective - then make the total register available, the total record of execution so that each candidate can carry out a check in advance and check, based on a simple question, whether the vehicle he wants to purchase is the subject of a execution decision or not.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u104	Time! Thank you. And the additional question or response of the Member?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u105	I would like to thank the Minister of Transport very much. I agree it's not as simple as the real estate cadastral. On the other hand, we all have experience, if you're trying to find a tenant in your apartment, you're going to the register of executions, if you wouldn't rent an apartment to someone who's in execution. However, it is true that you do not always have to know from this that all the movable things of the person are being executed. This means that I welcome the initiative to be, if I can ask you as quickly as possible - that means the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Justice, the Executor Chamber, because I would immediately have another incentive there, and that is to make it easier for employers to work with employees who are being executed, so there are more things that can be dealt with. Thank you and I look forward to meeting you as soon as possible, because it will help a lot of people. [[Time!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u106	And the Minister's reaction?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u107	I just want to confirm that we're really gonna organise this meeting in the shortest possible time. The goal is common, to ensure that people who acquire a vehicle simply do not suffer from lack of information and do not have the opportunity to access the final information. I will add that it is not really that simple, because in the case of executions, the circumstances of the obligation to property are conducted not only by the decision itself, but by the delivery of the decision, which is also a matter which will not be so easy from the point of view of the registration of the vehicle register. However, the objective is to find a solution that would be affordable, which would be effective and that could be ensured in the agreement of the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Justice, with the fact that I perceive that your experience in this area could also be valuable for finding an effective practical solution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u108	Thank you very much and Mrs Helena Válková will perform with further interpellation, Mrs Karla Maříková will prepare herself, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u109	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Unfortunately, the Minister of Justice is not here, so all I have to do is inform the microphone of a situation that none of us, including him, surely considers optimal. Last year there was an amendment - which is already effective, of course, it is about a year - of the Act on Victims of Crimes No. 45 from 2013. He's gonna be celebrating ten years since his 2013 adoption, by the way. It is very good, even from the point of view of European standards comparable, and in something even a law that surpasses such an average, so the Czech Republic has nothing to be ashamed of. However, the amendment - let us say by mistake - has aggravated the access of victims, child victims of sexual assaults, to provide financial assistance both to bridge the aggravated social situation and to a certain contribution to compensation for damage caused by property damage. Various meetings are currently taking place, but she is stretching out. I have been following this issue for a long time because I am co-author of the law, although the lion's share of it is of course mainly Petra Vitoušová from the White Circle of security, and we are concerned that the Ministry is on the spot. Two unions, the legislative and the compensation department, clearly expressing different views, and this does not help children's victims to get back to the desired financial assistance thanks to the amendment or at least the interpretation of the new legislation in their favour. [[Time.]] [[Thank you, I must.]] That's why I'm only asking Minister Blažek - I can't ask him again, Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u110	I know, but I'm sorry, I really have to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u111	Okay. That is why I am only asking if he is preparing something concrete in this situation, or I will make a proposal myself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u112	Thank you. It's just this way for everyone, for all those two minutes, please consider it. And I will also point out that the answer will, of course, come in writing as a standard. With regard to the next performance, Mrs Karla Maříková is Mrs Karla, and then Mr Zdeněk Kettner will be prepared. Please, madam, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u113	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Minister, there was a rapid increase in crime during your time at the Ministry of the Interior. According to official police statistics, 181 991 crimes were registered in the Czech Republic in 2022. Compared to 2021, there was an increase of 28 758 acts, which is 18,8% higher in percentage terms. There's been a rise in violent crime out of total crime. In this area, too, we see an increase of 10.2%, namely an increase of 13,180 acts. The National Economic Council of the Government has prepared a proposal to reduce the government deficit. The draft of the National Economic Council of the Government contains 16 measures to increase budget revenue and 12 measures to limit expenditure. On the revenue side of the NERV budget, it proposes, for example, a reduction in the number of police officers. You refused, but now I'm reading that the police have to spare. The pay will hold, but they'll be released. The maids aren't interrupting yet. Lowering the number of police officers may mean further increase in crime, but also the demise of some departments. At a time when several hundred thousand Ukrajinec are untested in our country and illegal migrants from third countries can also increase, the reduction in the number of policemen is gambling with the safety of our citizens. I wonder, Minister, how many police officers will be released or any other workers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u114	Thank you for your time and now the Vice Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior Vít Rakušan will speak. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u115	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I'd like us to work honestly with the data. So I would -- and I already said it here yesterday, but I understand that there was a lot going on in this discussion and that everything couldn't be done, I certainly didn't make it all out of your arguments, and you certainly didn't make it all out of my arguments. Once again, I stress that crime did not make it to the forehead figures last year. Who deals with crime and its course, let's say, professionally, in all countries around the world, has simply dropped criminality significantly at the time of the covideo measures only because the covideo measures did not want to apply to all classes of society, including those involved in some faulty activity. We've dropped crime all over the world, look at any country's statistics. Which crime began to rise in the covido era and the trend continues now is cybercrime because people moved much more in the online world. Unfortunately, it had very negative consequences, for example, on the type of crime, such as sexual harassment of children on the Internet. This is literally an epidemic, and this is something that the Czech Republic will have to be able to defend itself effectively, because this crime has risen. But now let's compare - and objectively - 2019 when the situation was normal, then a few years of pandemic, I think there's logic in it, then life returned to normal, and that life back to normal just wanted to return to the streets without all the measures we've been experiencing, and let's compare seriously, let's just compare 2019 and 2022. The value of crime in 2022 is still lower in total than it was in 2019. That's honest data work. Either we want to do politics, and we can fool someone for something, attack, show, prove, or we want to give the citizens of this country relevant data, and this is a relevant statistical comparison. 2020 - 2021 does not count. [[16.50 hours]] And now the facts I was talking about. In Austria, a much larger increase in crime, as well as in Germany, as well as in Poland, as well as in Slovakia. The small increase in crime in Central European space was only in Hungary. Here are the statistical charts. So all the countries around us logically saw an increase in the altered atmosphere last year. But we as the Czech Republic didn't make it to 2019. It's just about crime. And now for the police numbers. Well, logically, the police are getting older, and the generation of the 1970s, the strongest, so-called Husákův's children, didn't grow up to Kristův's years as it is in one song, but to the retirement years. They're in the pension category. They joined the police in the '90s, and now a huge category of people has reached, the biggest statistical share, the retirement years, because they joined the police in the '90s, and now they've reached it. So the exit rate from the point of view of a simple demography is just going to be higher. But if you're asking me how many police officers we're gonna release next year, zero. Zero cops, zero firemen. No police or firefighters' spreadsheets are canceled and police salaries will not fall, while in January they grew by 10 per cent to tariffs, even 17 per cent to beginners. Yes, I know what you're referring to, the debate in public space, whether to reduce tariff salaries by 5%, and I'm saying no, I'm saying it clearly and I'm saying that it would cause a huge exit rate for the police and the firefighters, which would bring no economic profit, because if they left - please don't grab me now - 7,000 police officers and 1,500 firefighters, we'll just pay more on the way out and out than we would spare if we took anyone on tariffs. So once again, maybe more for cops than for you, madam, and for firefighters, no one's touching their tariffs, their salary isn't going to fall. And that's an important message, just like there won't be any table cuts. Yes, that I am also criticized, that is possible, but we cannot say that Denmark has fewer policemen than the Czech Republic, how is that possible? Well, because they have completely different agendas. We need to see what the Czech police, like the foreign police, have to do and what else is done in an official manner.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u116	Thank you, and the Member will come forward with her supplementary question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u117	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Minister, then who will be released and how much will it save?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u118	Thank you and the Minister again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u119	It will have to be made more effective, but of course we are still drawing up next year's budget, that is planned, and of course, for civil servants of the Police of the Czech Republic, which are not members, it is possible that there will have to be a partial reduction of the state, yes, that is possible, but not for police officers and not for firefighters. Please, let's not take this information elsewhere, as it has appeared several times before. Of course, at this point, when the budget outlook for 2024, as Minister, is approved, I cannot guarantee you the amount of funding for next year. That's the policy, that's the hard negotiation we're going to have, that's what we're experiencing in every government, whether it's blue, red, green or whatever, that's the match between the various ministerial ministers and the finance minister for the amount of money that's going to go. But we don't know that now how the result will turn out, we'll know that sometime in the fall. And I say it's crucial for me that, once again, I point out, the cops don't drop their tariffs so that no police and fireplace will be disturbed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u120	Thank you, too. We are now going to interpel Mr Zdeněk Kettner and then Mrs Karla Maříková can prepare herself again. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u121	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I would like to ask the Minister: As part of the approval of the amendment to the Education Act, the amendment of the Member of the Excellent and Co. was approved, where, as regards salaries, they divided into two categories, teachers and teaching staff. Part of this amendment also mentions the fact that two different tariff tables are actually created. So I would like to ask whether this is already being done or whether it is done, how much will it affect the pay gap between teachers and teaching staff, and when will it be available so that teachers and the teaching public can look at it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u122	I also thank you and now, with my answer, the Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u123	Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, thank you for the question. I am debating this matter quite intensively with both the education unions and the relevant parts of the Ministry of Education. At this point, I can say this: the Ministry of Education, at work level, is debating with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs on possible options for adapting these tables. One of these variants, for example, is expected to reduce the number of degrees according to the years that have been worked out. Of course, the question of non-educators and non-teachers or non-teachers in schools is part of the debate. I promised the union we'd talk about this thing on a regular basis so we wouldn't surprise each other. I assume that in a short time, the working teams of the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Education will come up with some options, which will then be the subject of political assessment and some dialogue between me and Minister Jurečka and the government, so I hope that we will face this quickly. I know there is a great deal of demand for this and how the commitment to 130 per cent will be reflected in the draft budget for next year. koneckonců all, even here during the interview, it was said what the situation is now in the proposal of the Ministry of Finance, which, of course, does not take into account the commitments enshrined in the legislation. So during - I suppose - the month of July we will move forward in the preparation of those tables and also in the negotiation of the allocation of funds to guarantee wages.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u124	Thank you. Is there an interest in supplementary? There's no interest in another question. So we are going to interpel with Mrs Karla Maříková again and then Mr Patrik Nacher will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u125	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear absent minister, you have said that medical emergency will be interrupted throughout the Republic, even though the emergency is already overloaded. The regions are currently setting up 113 emergency stations. According to you, an emergency would be enough if they were only in emergency hospitals. However, a combination of medical emergency with urgent income would mean that the places to which patients can turn would be reduced. The Ministry plans to operate 89 urgent revenues in the Czech Republic by 2026. If the E.R. were on their side, they'd be down to 24. The arrival at the emergency room from some cities, such as Mariánské Lázně, is 35 kilometers to the hospital in Cheb. So it can be expected that people will benefit more from the rapid rescue service, which will be needed in a more serious case. Minister, do you realise that this step will lead to a reduction in the availability of health care and a greater burden on the rapid rescue service, which is already sufficiently busy and lacking personnel? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u126	Thank you very much for keeping time and again in accordance with the Rules of Procedure will be answered within 30 days, the Minister is duly excused. We will therefore approach Mr Patrik Nacher's interpellation and Mr Hubert Lang will be ready again. Mr. Ambassador, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u127	Thank you. I would like to intersect the Minister of Justice on the matter of protected accounts and on how this will progress further. I intersected like this last time, he wasn't here, or even the last time before, so I have a written answer, now I would follow up on it, but he's not here again, so I don't know now, I wouldn't want to cycle the written answers to the written answers. [[17,00 hours]] The basic information is that so far, it seems that from the eight banks contacted, the number of protected accounts was on average 70 per bank, which is some, if I count well, 560 protected accounts, which is not enough. So my basic question is whether the Justice Department is preparing something -- and I'm going to sprinkle a little ash on my head from the point of view of what kind of proposal we adopted here because I was involved -- so if it's doing something to increase popularity and facilitate the creation of protected accounts so that it doesn't just stay in the law, but it didn't actually take advantage of it, because some 70 protected accounts per bank are really little and it doesn't fulfill the purpose. So I suppose the Minister will answer me in writing again, but I'd quite like to speak to him here in person, as it was a moment ago with the Minister of Transport, because then it's obvious that things will move forward. So much for the interpelation, I'll wait for the written answer. In the meantime, the Home Secretary has arrived, so this is how we agreed, so I can end the interpelation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u128	That was very kind. As far as the answer is concerned, it will, of course, come in writing within 30 days in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And now, Mr Hubert Lang will speak with his intervention, Mr Zdeněk Kettner will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u129	Thank you, Madam President. A present number two for the Home Secretary. This time I would like to focus on the temporary protection of the citizens of Ukraine. After the outbreak of aggression in Ukraine total to 1. 4. 2023 even after we edited the individual lexes, we have 325 266 active registrations registered, that is, to the total number of issued visas issued for refugees from Ukraine issued, when a total of 504 107 were issued, we are still missing 178 841. It's true there's still that possibility by the end of September. I would also like to ask about what we discussed here yesterday, which is a pact of compulsory solidarity, when you refer to the fact that we do not actually have to do what you negotiated on that Council of Ministers, so there are three options - either technical support or financial participation, or it is the relocation of some number of asylum seekers, those 30,000, depending on how much they appear in the European Union. I wonder, and you mentioned it several times, that we don't really know - we have lex Ukraine, which therefore provides for a temporary protection visa until March next year, and what happens next with the Ukrajinec? You have mentioned here several times that you yourself do not know whether the conflict of war will continue, whether there will be any Lex Ukraine V, let's say when the temporary protection visa will be extended again, or you have mentioned here several times that then the citizens of Ukraine could be transferred to the asylum procedure. So we could have 340 or 350 of them here, so we could logically say, yes, we have so many asylum seekers here, and so we're not going to give any money. But I'm asking, where did you get that idea, Minister? I believe that when the conflict in Ukraine ends, the Ukrajinec will once again become citizens, classic third-countryrs, and they can't seek asylum here, but they should submit under the foreign law to a classic or long-term residence, so the status of the asylumant here will not be possible. [[Time, please!]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u130	Thank you, and the Minister of the Interior will speak with his response, and the words will now be taken by Vít Rakušan. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u131	Thank you, Madam Vice-President, for one more word. Thank you for that question, because this is an interesting and important discussion, this definitely makes sense, and we need to talk about it. Maybe just information for you, Mr. Ambassador. The newest statistics say that the number of Ukrajinec in our territory is 343,000. Just for you, it's not a fix, it's just information. This is developing quite dynamically and clearly. In fact, to interpret it, we're missing some 170, 165,000 people, that's not true. They are almost certainly here, the vast majority of them, not in the territory of the Czech Republic. Leaving was also quite high, but we are still a very busy country with this number, including from the European Union criteria. It is currently a temporary protection institute that you are talking about, and you are right that it is implemented into our lex Ukraine, but it is a standard that has been applied throughout Europe. The European Union has agreed on this, and we have adapted to it at that national level. If you recall the beginning of the conflict, we had some kind of own legal title, when we were already giving permission to stay with Ukrajinec coming here, but it wasn't the temporary protection yet. We have adopted the 2001 application of this European legislative instrument, which was first implemented in the context of the Ukrainian migration crisis. Temporary protection is to end in accordance with so far approved rules at the end of March 2024. According to preliminary reports, and again, please, the preliminary reports, so that we do not come back here again in any next debate at a word, according to preliminary reports, the European Commission wants to extend temporary protection until March 2025, because unfortunately, the conflict as such does not seem to be coming to an end. There are also voices, but nowhere has it been voted on, not officially decided, to extend temporary protection to, say, three or four years. I don't see this as a happy solution. I think that, in the event of the end of the conflict, we should be able to react quickly as the European Union. The European Commission would like precisely with the individual Member States, and that is the most important answer to your question, to coordinate the postwar procedure and after the end of temporary protection, in order to avoid unjustified differences in access to individual Ukrajinec in individual countries, and to avoid secondary movements. Now let's say the situation really doesn't have any ideological coloring. If there are 343,000 people here, we know that all of them for two, three years of conflict won't want to go home, and I assume that one third, and that's what sociologists say, three years of conflict duration - two thirds return, one third remains. At that time, we will need to move on to some 120,000 people who want to stay here in the Czech Republic, and the European Commission wants to come up with a common principle of how to put these people in the system in all the territories of the European States. Under current law, it would be a foreign law in the Czech Republic, or those people would have to return to Ukraine, come back from Ukraine and become asylum seekers. This is the current legislative perspective. But the European Commission has not yet come up with a single European framework, which is not my fault, my laziness or anything, but I say that these rules are to be set together in our interests in all countries if possible, because if it were to happen that some states will set them more strictly than others, and it does not matter if we are more stringent or less strict, but we are really going to have a secondary movement of people within the European area, which is what we want to prevent. Just then some competition, which will have more or less ukrajinka and Ukrajinec on its territory, is something the Commission wants to avoid. We want to be active in this negotiations and, of course, we want to come to the conclusion that we can include these people in the solidarity system, in the solidarity framework. And here's the thing I'm pointing out, Mr. Ambassador: it's not approved. This, what we accepted, is the position of the Council of Ministers. This will be approved by Parliament, and Parliament will also deal with the position of Ukrainians.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u132	Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u133	European. The pact is not approved at European level. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u134	Thank you and now, therefore, with an additional question by the Member. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u135	Okay, thank you. It's very partly illuminating - it's got the logic you said. Of course, it is a bit more technical, which means, clearly, that if the conflict is over, today the European Union's framework position or the narrative is not yet created as it will be, but it can indeed happen that Europe will not really reach the point of putting it in the asylum system. In that case, of course, we would have to change the asylum law, because it doesn't even talk about it, and they can really fall into the classic foreign law. If they want to stay here, yes, I agree that most, one-third of the people remain somewhere, when the conflict lasts more than one year, there are statistics for that. In that case, Minister, of course, what you argue about the pact of compulsory solidarity, that we, by actually having so many Ukrajinec here, who, as you have said several times - and it has struck me by other colleagues, that they will turn into asylum, and we will not have to pay the 20,000 euros for them for the one runner, that there is an exception to that, but for the time that the Ukrajinec are here, or after that, if they were to go into asylum. [[Time.]] But I would like to point out to you that when it comes from asylum to foreign law, in the first quarter of 2028 we only had 251 asylum seekers, and then we should pay big money. [[Time, please!]] [[2018?]] [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u136	Thank you, it's understood, please really keep time. And the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u137	I understand and I will repay you. Your argument also has logic, Mr Member, and I was already in one of my answers yesterday - and I am truly sorry, and there is no excuse that this debate turned from a proper debate into factual comments, when I really did not have the opportunity to answer all the questions repeatedly and actively within two minutes - but in one of my answers I tried to suggest what I had time for today's intervention. Yes, there is no single European approach, and if it does not - but Europe tries to do so - we must certainly react legislatively at national level. I am afraid, in the drag of the Ukrainian conflict, that it can easily get to the next government, but here I assure you that we, at European level, are playing a very active role in this and, as a busy country, we want the Commission to give us a prediction of what has happened and will happen as soon as possible: firstly, by when temporary protection will be, which is a completely different title, and secondly, what it will look like with asylum legislation at European level after the end of the crisis itself. And what I said: yes, the exception applies, and we agree on that, for as long as the Ukrainian crisis - but let's really think about one thing - the pact doesn't apply. And that's what I was trying to explain. They're asking me when and until the exception applies. I don't know, since when, I don't know if the pact will be approved in the European Parliament, since then. It's just always a very difficult discussion and the translation nut we had here. He's being targeted into the future. That means when the pact is in effect, you'll have the exception as such. And, of course, it is necessary to take care of such a legislative mechanism so that, if possible, we can get into this solidarity framework, and that is what we will strive for at European and Czech level.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u138	Thank you. We'll proceed to another interpellation. Mr Zdeněk Kettner will be the interviewer and Mrs Lenka Knechtová will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u139	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I have a question for the Minister of Education. As part of an approved amendment to the Education Act, it will be possible for people without pedagogical education to teach, and the Director will allow a three-year exemption. I know that there are meetings of directors in working municipalities, so there is communication between directors, but there may be a situation that one of such employees could apply educational tourism, which means that after three years of taking up another school, he has completed another three years. I know it's probably not a mass issue, I'm sure it isn't, but is there some sort of system solution being prepared in the style of some central registry of these cases where the directors could possibly see to make sure that nothing like this happens?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u140	Thank you. Minister of Education Mikuláš Bek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u141	Madam Vice-President, honourable Member, thank you for the question. She's heading towards the essential aspect of the debate about the novel. I mean, the fact that there will be unapplied teachers in schools isn't news. She's actually adjusting these terms to their remuneration, because for those three years, they'll be considered qualified. It is important to say this: the Ministry of Education must establish relevant registers, because the situation is really alarming. We don't actually have real data on the functioning of schools, we just have feedbacks from reports that don't allow a detailed analysis of where we have both qualified teachers, both concerned and the like. I'm aware that this thing is urgent, which is why I'm trying to speed up the timetable for the preparation of the information systems. In fact, it is quite intertwined with the problem of electronic filing applications. We just need school registers, we need interlinked school registers, teachers, we need basic information. Some kind of work version of the schedule expects that perhaps by 2026 at the latest, the teachers' register should be operational, but I hope it will be sooner, I will do everything for it. This implies the allocation of funds, in no way expansive, but it is extremely important that we know at any time at any time what is actually happening in schools in terms of staffing teaching.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u142	Thank you very much. Is there an interest in a reaction? It's not. We will now proceed to the next interview, Mrs Lenka Knechtová will present it, and Mr Patrik Nacher will be prepared again. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u143	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, my question concerns your statement, and that the capacity of grammar schools will be increased. I am fully aware of the unhappy situation with the capacity of secondary schools, especially in Prague and Central Bohemia, but after all, we have a comprehensive 2030+ strategy that sets the direction of education development and investment priorities for ten years across the spectrum. That is why I ask whether increasing the capacity of grammar schools is in line with this strategy, which is extremely important when education is not in the tow of elections and has a clear direction. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u144	Thank you. Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u145	Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, thank you for the question. She kind of allows me to explain my statement from Václav Moravec's question, which actually aimed at the fact that under certain circumstances I can imagine breaking the taboo so far, when the classes of multi-annual grammar schools have not been raised at all, and I want to explain it. I think that the debate on secondary-school capacities does not have a completely black-and-white solution, that it is not so that we could say "never" and "always" in this area of education policy, but that it is good to look at the situation and the view of regional circumstances and situations and demand. When I studied the long-term intention of the Ministry of Education, which regulates the structure, came from 2019, one thing stopped me there. In fact, there is only one parameter for moderating the structure, which is actually labour market demand or labour market needs. That is, of course, relevant. On the other hand, it is clear that the way to identify these needs is always burdened with the current situation, and then it can easily happen that demand formulated in 2019 before covid after certain professions can change as a result of the covid and the energy crisis faster than we would like. In fact, I lack some balance of parameters in the long term, where the demand of parents and children should also be taken into account. I am an individualist in this, and I think that the primary responsibility for the election is to be borne by parents and children, and I think that where the overhang is huge and the criteria for admission are more diametrically demanding than in other parts of the country, we should consider that, in fulfilling certain strict criteria, we could allow the opening of, for example, a class of six-year high school. My opinion is that a six-year-old rather than any other, to a minimum. I don't think it should be a mass phenomenon. I am now saying my political opinion, which will, of course, be subject to political discussion with partners and within the government, and we have been a few months since the approval of the new long-term plan. I'm just saying I'd like to put some pragmatism into this debate. Let's really see what demand looks like. We cannot accept that the entry criteria will vary in large cities as diametrically as they are today, against some parts of some regions, where the result is simply much lower for adoption than in some metropolises. Let's have a serious debate about this. I don't want to take any ideological stand in this, but I think, after the experience of this year's admission procedure and the previous year, it's time for us to take a cold head, once we know the clear dates of what actually happened, to look at how we regulate the offer of study disciplines in secondary schools. I am afraid that it is not entirely possible, and in this I am different in a single sentence from the approved strategy, actually saying that in all regions the same percentage threshold will be required. When we look at how much different the composition of the population in large cities varies in terms of, for example, the proportion of college parents, let's face it, their demand will simply be significantly higher for the types of education they believe will provide a good chance for their children for future life. Let's look at it calmly, without ideological prejudice. [[17.20 hours]] I know the professional debate, and I actually agree with it, which has always criticised the emergence of multi-annual grammar schools. On the other hand, as a politician, I am responsible for maintaining some social agreement, and I think that this is part of the search for that social agreement on the direction of education and that the professional opinion must actually be corrected a little by looking at the demand and decision of parents to a reasonable degree. I think it's more about exceptions than trying to make a rule out of it. I think we're supposed to be looking for a way to shorten multi-annual grammar schools from eight-year-olds to six-year-olds, but that's a matter of another debate. I said in the television debate my political opinion, which I am prepared to correct on the basis of both expert and political debate, and then to stand by the consensus that I hope we will be aiming at in the coming months around the Ministry's long-term intention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u146	Thank you. There's no interest in an additional question. We will therefore proceed to another interview by Mr Patrik Nacher, and then Mr Lubomír Wenzl will be prepared. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u147	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Today I have 33% success because I have again an interview for a minister who is not here, I feel that basically again the second time for a colleague of Bartoš. It's about the heat billing, he answered me. The problem is that even if we all want - politicians, coalitions, oppositions, several hands - to save people, and at the same time they save so much that when they settle the heat they still get at least, if I remember correctly, 70 percent of the diameter of the house, so I asked if Decree No. 269/2015, issued by the Ministry of Regional Development, if it should not adapt to the current situation. At the time, the minister told me that there was a round table, experts, and that there was a change being made. A few months have passed, so my interpellation is actually about what has changed in this matter? Because then, when the winter season comes again, it'll be too late for everything. So I'm asking you this because I think interpelations make sense when the task is always done when it's finished. We'll always interpel here, we'll make a comma, whoever answers has a comma, but basically, it doesn't matter if it somehow results in anything. So, for the third time today, all three of my interpelations have been following up on my previous interpelations to finish the problem into something that might change something - it won't change, it'll stay the same, we'll sort of deal with it, or we'll get something positive new. So in this case, I would like to know, Bartoš, how did Decree No. 269/2015 Sb., if anything has moved in this and if the change is already possible for people to wait in the nearest winter season when it comes to heat billing?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u148	Thank you, even for keeping time. As with others, the Minister is duly excused and will reply in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. We will therefore proceed to the following interpellation by Mr Lubomír Wenzl. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u149	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Minister, our citizens have been struggling with missing drugs for practically a year. This is not just a statement of citizens. We learn that the situation is not improving at all from open sources from doctors and pharmacists. Over the past year, we have been through a shortage of antibiotics, a shortage of syrups against fevers for children's patients, and now there is a shortage of anti-angina medicines. Over the past period, we have often heard from your mouth the emphasis you place on making available to patients with medicines in sufficient quantities. What's next? I'm asking you, Minister, are you looking? Are you and the Ministry you run to find a solution to prevent or minimise the impact on citizens at the time of the failure of medicines? Is this situation discussed at government level? Wouldn't it be one of the ways, for example, that the State should keep some of these groups of drugs in the stores of the State's material reserves and, in the event of their outages, release them from the warehouse for the needy? I am convinced that we can no longer hear from your mouth: Most of the missing antibiotics will be available next month, as no one believes that anymore, for example, see the statement by the President of the Czech Medical Chamber, who called for you to present a real plan to deal with this situation. I ask you, Minister, please, Minister, to address this situation, for which I thank you on behalf of the citizens and the professional medical public.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u150	Thank you, too. The answer comes in writing again within the standard 30 days. Mr Hubert Lang will speak with the next interview, and I see that you will then continue with the next interview. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u151	Thank you, Madam President. So this time it's gift number three. Minister, the previous interpelations from my colleague have already been made, they were questions about the salaries of police officers, the salaries of firefighters next year. We have registered a situation where civil servants in the police are being referred to. I would very much like you here to - if you have great power as the First Deputy Prime Minister, and you guaranteed it and you said it here on the microphone that you will not reach into the service, you will not release any police officer, you will not release any fireman - to think as a government or you as the Minister of the Interior and over civil servants. I feel like I'm in such a big deal here, because in 2010 I was still an active police officer myself, I had a large number of civil servants in my department, a large number of police officers. Unfortunately, there were those austerity measures when we were forced to lay off across the board, essentially thoughtlessly, without brains, a certain number of police officers, a certain number of civil servants. In the police force, you know this more than I do, we have approximately 10,000 civil servants, of which about 450 tables are vacant, so they could probably be deleted first. But what about the remaining civil servants? A certain percentage are retired police officers. We asked the Security Committee about this, it's just a low percentage, I was surprised that only about 4 percent of civil servants are ex-cops, but other civil servants on each of those police units -- realize that they're all staff, that they're all authors, that they're people who do FKSP, who do logistical security, who do, for example, Armament in the police. If we reach into this government's sensitive area of these civil servants in the police with austerity, we will probably have to outsource these services. We've also been here once before for Minister Langer, when clothes were washed in plainclothes, there were warehouses, police efforts to convert them to civilian. Where this came from, we know when it tried to privatize, for example, police spa. It all had bad endings. I'd really like to challenge you here, and I'd like to be here for you...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u152	Time's up, then you can ask a follow-up question. And now, with the response, Mr. Vice Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior Vít Rakušan. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u153	Thank you for the floor. But I'd take the liberty of a bit of a recap, and please, let's not put up with the whole situation, I've done the research on purpose. And now within objectivity. In 2012, police officers and firefighters reached their tariffs, where wages fell, so that was when 4,200 police officers left within two years and caused really large personnel holes in the police, which were hard to cover in the last ten years, so the decline there was really fast and it really threatened some stability of the congregations themselves. And that's why I'm saying here to really straighten things out, but we're not gonna let tariff salaries go up. [[Member Lang: They've fallen.]] At the first meeting, I promised police officers in January 2022 - to say the right year now - that their salaries would not fall, that we would not reach out, that, on the contrary, I wanted to guarantee them growth from next year, and all these promises, despite criticism, I fulfilled anyone. By 10 percent increase in salaries to tariffs, by 17 percent to beginners, I didn't touch my pension, and I didn't even put any of the different critical voices that appeared here, and I maintained this policy. And just like in a time of economic recession, I'm not gonna lie now and I'm not gonna say - because I don't want to lie, this isn't about you, with all due respect, but it's about cops and firemen - and I'm not gonna tell them, now they're gonna grow up and so on. I call them, they don't go down. I promise you, they will not fall within the consolidation package. But I wouldn't want any more bad salaries to fall to the civil servants of the police, which is not gonna be easy. So what we are doing now with the police president is a big analysis of agendas and possible reduction of some agendas and a proposal for reduction of agendas, or, of course, for the future, which will not immediately digitize certain necessary agendas, and here, of course, I cannot guarantee that there will not be a reduction of jobs in any overall volume within the medium term. But we want to do all of this with maximum sensitivity, so that there isn't exactly a stop to the important activities that we guarantee for the police. [[17.30 hours]] I could make things up here, Mr. Ambassador, and say all sorts of things, and I want to tell you the whole truth here, and the truth is: we don't touch the salaries of cops, we don't release anyone, we don't disturb a single table, but somehow we have to deal with the savings. But one more thing: nothing's agreed. There is some proposal for a medium-term perspective, but the budget as such with all volumes will be made mainly in the summer months or in September. I can promise you, just like last year, which is my duty to fight for the resort.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u154	Thank you and the follow-up question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u155	Thank you. So I would add what I didn't have, because it really is a short period of time and it would probably need a longer discussion. On the Security Committee, the police president agreed that he wanted 140 percent for police officers, which, of course, is likely to fail your consolidation package. Okay, salaries will not go down, cops won't be released, firemen won't be released, they'll get to some level, maybe with some increase, which will, of course, really reduce their wages to the rate of inflation. We learned from civil servants, and to my complete horror, that three years of permanent pay is actually going down, and they're still there, these people, they're there. It's the hearts that fight for the police and carry out the activities there. If you try to guarantee, keep these civil servants, I'll be glad, if you don't, then there's a real risk that qualified police officers who are already missing out on patrol and all that. If the car was a civil servant, you gave him the car, he did the tech, he did the gas, and so on, and if the police officer did it, it would be wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u156	Thank you, too, and again with the Minister's response. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u157	I don't deny the importance of occasional employees, I know what they're doing. It's a debt to add, the advice of them may be ex-cops, some of them are in the service business, but they're sort of... [[Mr. Lang is speaking off the microphone.]] I know, there are about 20 percent of them - within, I say now, around - but they are people who already have some experience, and I consider it to be nothing negative, I consider it a bonus that they are people who have some habits from the police environment and, on the contrary, know it well - police and fire brigade to talk about both congregations and be in this correct. Of course, we realize that the pay level was not optimal. They didn't, let's say, lower their salaries in the absolute number, but relative to what the average salary looked like, of course, the percentage, or the percentage, how high they got to the average salary, really dropped. And that's why we say: we can't afford to cut our salaries even with civil servants, that's nonsense, no one would be there. I'm simply saying that, in the context of the overall investigation, the overall revision of the agenda will certainly include the civil servants' posts, which will be disturbed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u158	Thank you and we will therefore proceed to the further interpellation of Mr Hubert Lang. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u159	Thank you, Madam President. I would have returned here to yesterday's debate, when I was the first to enter into the general debate, I did not come at all because of the factual ones, so I will try very quickly. I am essentially concerned with what is mentioned today, what we are facing, and this is the framework position of the Government of Andrej Babiš in the matter of the migration pact or the compulsory solidarity that you signed as Minister of the Interior of the current government, with what was your position - incompetence, as you had your mandate - you did not have a mandate. I would like to say here that, of course, everything you have signed there, what is still ineffective - it will go to the European Parliament - a new position or a key agreement on asylum legislation - because it did not sound enough here yesterday, yesterday there were pears and plums - it is actually asylum seekers, and not classic illegal migrants, because they are solved according to completely different parameters. Simplifying asylum procedures at borders - well, let's say. Border management - sufficient capacity, change of Dublin rules, which will have to follow if the pact passes, of course, a new solidarity mechanism, and then, of course, there is the crossing and abuse of movement. [[secondary?]] All of this has been mentioned many times. Please, we, the YES movement, were in the framework position that was under Andrej Babiš's rule, saying c, saying - we give technical support, we put cops on the external Schengen border, we help, we do that, you keep doing that, that's not the problem. We're a little different from the financial aid. You guys have some... if the relocation mechanism doesn't come true, let's say if we didn't have one Ukrajinec, we only had 540 asylum seekers, and the countries on the outside ring always have a huge burden. I have calculated from the point of view of your statistics from the Ministry of the Interior for the first quarter of this year, when at the end there is a summary of the arrival of asylum seekers - not illegal migrants, but asylum seekers - from 2017 to 2023, when 829 498 people came in order, and it works for me when 17 000 asylum seekers are being relocated - what could be done because we do not know the conversion formula - to CZK 8 187 000 000 per year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u160	The Minister will respond. The Rules of Procedure set it very strictly, the minutes. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u161	No, I understand that two minutes isn't enough, and I'm really sorry that the discussion wasn't in that normal way, and we have to squeeze it in two, five minutes yesterday and today. The framework position was actually based on the framework position adopted in 2020 and, yes, I, Mr Member, was unhappy about it yesterday, unhappy about it, but I really did not start with it - and I am not going to be personal - the political struggle we fought yesterday, but I did not really start by mixing pears and apples. Here in the opposition statements of strong opposition politicians, there was suddenly talk of those crossing the Slovak-Czech border, sneaking around and illegally crossing it, and I was the first to speak here, and I said: I do not understand the connection of this to the migration pact, the asylum migration pact that we are talking about at the moment. Because they were the people we tried, say, to secure and to return to Slovakia, and they were not the people who were primarily seeking asylum here in the Czech Republic. So, yes, I agree with you, the discussion was burdened by a very bad definition of what we're talking about. And unfortunately, it has also been rejected several times in this debate that your government, or the government of the YES movement with social democracy, would even consider some solidarity and support for the migration and asylum pact. That's just not true. Or it was a false mandate of the Government of 2020, because the mandate was clear: to adopt the asylum and migration act if the existing rules are complied with, and that means red line in that there will be no mandatory relocation quotas - nothing has changed in this government's position - and that they will be sought - and that was the second generally formulated point - that flexible forms of solidarity will be sought. And we have incorporated flexible forms of solidarity into this. There's three of them. These are relocations that are not mandatory, and that is the change from what we have all rejected across the political scene, and I think they have rightly rejected, and the second form of flexible solidarity is financial solidarity, and the third form of flexible solidarity is what I call technical solidarity. And this is simply a position that remained constant, which I did not really cross with my connection to the signing and confirmation of discussions over the Czech government, and, on the contrary, within the context of the changed situations that occurred - that could not be known, that was not the Ukrainian crisis - an exception has been negotiated, which concerns particularly busy countries of Ukrainian migration, in our case it is the Czech Republic, it is Poland and it is the Baltics, these are the most busy countries. This was the extension of the mandate, but it was not extended by adversely exceeding it, but by shifting it in favour of the Czech Republic. And as for the people you're talking about, and the conversion itself, of course, the conversion will still be made by technical standards. We must understand this document as a general document of some general political consensus, that general political consensus is already defined on 150 pages, and certainly in that technical debate in the trialogue between Parliament, the Commission, the Council and Parliament's discussions themselves, some things will certainly be defined and some things will be clarified. [[17.40 hours]] So now it's hard to talk about what the financial conversion is, just like it's hard to talk about now - and you're not going to find that - what the quantification of C's financial assistance is, that means technical, logistical, with border control, personnel with police officers, with doctors in Medevac, with help on the spot, and this debate hasn't been conducted yet. We haven't had a quantification debate here about how the various forms of aid will be quantified, and we said that this would definitely be the technical debate where we will certainly try to support the maximum possible activities and ways of helping in point C.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u162	Thank you, and now fill them in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u163	I'm gonna try really fast, 'cause that minute really isn't enough. The rámcový position of the government of Andrej Babiš - you, when you joined the government, changed everything what the previous government was doing, and here at the same time, if we found out that you didn't accept anything at your government's exit meeting, suddenly you agreed and said that you were continuing in the framework position of Andrej Babiš. The rámcový position of the government of Andrej Babiš says so c Says: Let us strengthen technology, strengthen policemen, give money, but let us not give money to those people who will come to the EU and say "azyl." Let us put money in the place where these problems arise, that is, to Africa, or to countries such as Morocco, Libya and so on, let us create some Czech POINTs there. Anyone who wants to get into the European Union, let them come there, his request is assessed there, all these things are done there. Let's put the money in there and that's what Andrej Babiš meant. Andrej Babiš made it clear that he didn't want these people to come at all, to be offered at all. And here, in essence, we have three choices. So we have either option C - we give technique, we have option B - we give EUR 20,000 per migrant, which is about half a million crowns, or we have option A - you call it that fixed quotas have been established, but I call it another form of relocation is another form of fixed quotas, Minister. [[Time.]] [[Time, please!]] Believe me, it is. [[Time's up, really!]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u164	Thank you and room for the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u165	It's already incomprehensible to the public, but let's compare in terms. I say the migration pact doesn't contain mandatory relocations, it doesn't contain mandatory relocations, and it doesn't. We agree on that, but it doesn't contain mandatory relocations. No one can say: In the Czech Republic, you must accept such a number of migrants. And, Mr. Ambassador, you're wrong, and I'm a little sorry, because you're very familiar with these things, you understand them in detail, and I'm surprised. You're just wrong about what the framework position looked like. You interpret the opinion of Andrej Babiš. That's your right, you're from his movement, and that's your right. But please do not confuse this with the official rámcový Position of the Czech Republic of 2020. The opinion of Andrej Babiš here, presented yesterday, is quite different from that of the Government of 2020. One more time. The government's rámcový position, and not Mr. Babiš, but Mr. Hamáček of 2020, from the Ministry of the Interior, from the same workshop of the international department, which is up to now - I wasn't firing anyone, I'm not punishing the officials, so the framework position sounded like red lines are mandatory relocations and let's look for forms of flexible solidarity, which we did. I don't know what I was interrupting at the Ministry. I honor good officials and good workers, but one point. Why would we bother doing that? That was one of the few consensual things in your term. We supported the position of Andrej Babiš in 2015 when he refused mandatory quotas. On the Security Committee, where I was a member, we all rejected mandatory relocation quotas, mandatory relocations, and supported the search for solidarity. But please also be fair in this discussion and distinguish what the opinion of Andrej Babiš is and distinguish what the official agenda or official position of the Czech Republic from 2020. [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u166	Thank you. This interpelation is over. We will move on to the next and interpelling now is Mr Lubomír Wenzl. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u167	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear Minister, compared to last year, the number of workers from regional sanitary stations in the Czech Republic decreased by 135 seats. Despite the reduction of the number, the relevant agenda is said to be managed without any problems. Hygiene stations had a total of 2 167 employees at the end of March this year. But according to the statement - the claims of some directors of KHS on condition of anonymity - are on the edge of capacity. On the contrary, according to the Ministry of Health's communication, the reduction in the number of workers concerned mainly vacant tables and regional sanitation stations work normally. It can be said that the activities and obligations of the law are carried out perfectly well, even with a slightly smaller number of employees, as Mr Jakob, spokesperson for the Ministry, said. So what's the real deal? In this context, Minister, I ask you and please answer the questions: First of all, does regional sanitation stations carry out their tasks in the required quality? The second question, at what stage is the reform of these regional health stations announced by you? Thirdly, will your promise that there will be no professional weakening will be observed, and what will the savings be? Fourth, at what stage is the planned reorganisation of KHS and the State Health Institute? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u168	Thank you very much for keeping time. Once again, the Minister is duly excused, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, he will be answered in writing within 30 days. And we will now proceed today to Mr Hubert Lang's last interview. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u169	Thank you. For the last time, Minister. I would like to see in this matter that it does not create any unnecessary passion, there has been some tragic situation in Brno where, in essence, one ethnicity has been attacked by members of one ethnicity by a fugitive, by the applicant, or by the person who has a temporary visa in our country. He was a Ukrajinec who somehow defended himself there. Of course, this is handled by law enforcement authorities. There was a death and one severe injury, and it causes certain passions on social media. Of course, perhaps some Prorussian servers are catching on now - I am not in favour of this at all, nor do I want to talk about it in the context. But I am from the Plzeň Region, when we are actually the third, the county city of Plzeň is the third most burdened, even the Plzeň Region actually, the number of Ukrainian refugees we have accepted. We were talking here a little while ago about having more than 500,000 or 514,000 of them. Someone's already left. And I think you know what I'm getting at. I am here, when we have talked about this many times, talking about how we, as the Czech Republic, have offered kindness, we have accepted women, children, we have accepted old men, but of course we also have men, men between the 18th and 60th years of age. In Ukraine, they have a gate obligation, they should actually enlist and they should defend Ukraine against the Russian incursion, and I have already intersected you here once, and I have asked that I see no reason why these men who have applied for temporary protection visa should receive it. They should actually come home and fight on the side of Ukraine against the Russian invasion, because it is these - and this is what people write to me, especially from our region, meet those young men who behave in some way, it may be a smaller group, but they often behave in an inappropriate way, get drunk, make riots, and today these tragic things happen. It's just a kind of outburst. I ask, Minister, shall we do something? We're gonna try to limit these men from coming home, aren't we? Thank you. Let me ask you another question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u170	Thank you for your time and the Minister of the Interior Vít Rakušan will speak with his response to this interpelation. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u171	Thank you. I, uh, maybe beyond what you did in your interview, and I'm sorry, I'll get an answer to your question, of course, I'll use the five minutes, and I'll respond to what was in the name of the interpelation, which means an incident in Brno as such. There we know there was an unfortunate event 10. 6. The case is investigated in the Department of General Crime of the Regional Directorate of the South Moravian Region Police as a crime of murder under Section 140/1 of the Criminal Code. The accused is prosecuted in detention, the case is supervised by the Regional Prosecutor's Office in Brno. So far, the accused has put himself on the line by fearing for his life and defending himself. This is, of course, a matter of investigation, and it is not your or my job to judge this in any way. As part of the calming down of the situation and in order to prevent anything else, it took place today, i.e. 15. 6. from 9 o'clock at the Regional Directorate Police in Brno to the meeting attended by representatives of the City Council of Brno, the Regional Office of the South Moravian Region, the Government Human Rights Commissioner, representatives of DROM organisations, IQ service Brno, the Romodrom team and others, representatives of the Centre for Support of Integration of Foreigners, representatives of the Ukrainian and Romani communities, and of course we tried not to improve the situation in any way. I myself tried to work with the Commissioner for Roma Affairs. [[17.50 hours]] I just want to say that violence has no nationality whatsoever, and we should not think that there are angels among the Ukrajinec who come here, certainly not. We shouldn't even be thinking that it's some globally dangerous group of people who are putting things at risk here. The numbers of crime in the number of Ukrajinec living in the Czech Republic simply do not indicate this. I feel sorry for every case like this, as I feel sorry for every murder case in the Czech or any other national group, but it is simply a violent crime and, as such, without any other attributes, it will certainly be investigated. As far as Ukrainian men are concerned, Mr. Ambassador, you know that this possibility is essentially not allowed by the Institute of Temporary Protection. We do not have any chance to cadre who is coming to us in the Czech Republic, and to apply some Ukrainian legal title here about whether anyone has avoided, avoided mobilisation, and also - and that is to be realized - many of these men, therefore their number is increasing, have already had the necessary responsibility even behind them. These are people who have had military service or have already been acquitted of military service, yes, so it is logical that the number of men who come to the territory of the Czech Republic is growing with the ongoing period of war. Yes, I admit, the first wave, when it was basically exclusively mothers with children, is, of course, gone at this point, but we're applying the temporary protection institute, and if this man meets the legal criteria based on the temporary protection institute, what kind of legal title would we use to ban this man in any way, say, from the Czech Republic, send him to a battlefield in a foreign state, if it's not something that we legally have any supervision over? That's a thing we don't do in this way. But again, I would avoid the interpretation, please, that the Czech Republic is full of deserters. The Czech Republic is full of refugees from the ugly Russian war!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u172	Thank you. Additional question, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u173	Thank you. I don't want you to put something in my mouth that I didn't say. My point is purely that today there is a conscription of duty, it is an obligation to get in there from 18 to 60 years of age. Where did these men come from, I ask? There was some transitional period at the beginning of the war when it fled uncontrollably, but today a person crossing the Ukrainian-Slovak border or another, Ukrainian-Polish border, that is, from Neschengen to Schengen, and requesting some status, which would then be regulated by a temporary visa, must cross the official border crossing. It is not possible - I checked - for Ukrainian customs to release men between the 18th and 60th years of age who will go somewhere to Western Europe to apply for temporary protection visas in a legal way. That means, do you know how this works? Those men are walking with the help of $500 pushers next to the border crossing. They just avoid it because, unfortunately, that's the reality, and then they ask for a temporary protection visa. I'm just asking questions and asking questions because a lot of people are calling me, wondering what these young men are doing here. If I'm on call in any country, believe me, a whole lot of people don't behave. That was just the subject of my question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u174	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u175	I understand that, and I'm certainly not going to say that there are no people here who have somehow avoided their duties. I am merely saying that when these people appear at the Regional Assistance Centre to help Ukraine, they are the people who came here from a war country, and it is precisely according to the diction of temporary protection, as established, that protection is provided to them in that country if they escaped from the war. Please, let's not contradict the fact that many of these men have actually come here legally. These are people who, for example, have been released from the army after fulfilling their military duties, and so on, are looking for a family that lives somewhere safe, do not want to be in a country that is still being tossed by war. We can't even talk about safe locations in that country. It's just that the bomb is still falling on Kiev every now and then, on the capital. The war itself just didn't end. The only thing I answer - and I do not evaluate the correctness, the incorrectness of their actions, I merely say that we, from the perspective of Czech law, have no way of rejecting these people in providing temporary protection in any way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u176	Thank you. Interpelation has now expired. Before we go to the last two, I will add two apologies: Mrs Věra Adámková apologizes from 15 o'clock for working reasons and Mr Marek Výborný from 14.30 o'clock for working reasons. I now thank the Minister and give the floor to Mr Lubomír Wenzl, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u177	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Madam Secretary, at the end of May this year we learned that a contract was concluded for the purchase of infantry vehicles to replace the old technique of this type. I have always said that I support and will continue to support the need to modernize our army. I would like to point out that I am not satisfied with the form chosen to inform Members, members of the Committee on Defence, of this step, but we have become accustomed to this, although we do not like to do so. In this context, Madam Secretary, I want to ask you and find out the answers to the following questions. First, whether the delivery price ultimately 246 pieces of this technique are final, or whether there will still be additional financial costs under this contract in the following period, in a positive case, what is it? Secondly, whether the technical specifications of the technique as set up have been complied with? Thirdly, in the event of changes in the required specification, for which type of technique in this tender and to what extent? Fourthly, will the Czech industry's share in the performance of this contract be 40 percent? Will this be a production here in the Czech Republic and not just an import from abroad through a Czech trader? Fifth, whether the signing of the contract has not led to the risk of a legal attack on this acquisition, which could lead to additional funds being spent on the Czech Republic in the future. Thank you, Madam Secretary, for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u178	That was the first interpelation, you'll get an answer in writing. Now, please, the other one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u179	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Madam Secretary, we are halfway through your mandate, which is set for negotiations on the possible acquisition of aircraft of the fifth generation type F35 for the army of the Czech Republic. I have always been in favour of having a modern army, and I support the steps leading to its modernisation. I want to ask you from open source information: Firstly, whether the negotiations are still valid and are conducted in this way as regards the price and number of aircraft? Secondly, what other costs and at least the approximate amount will the Czech Republic have to spend in the event of the conclusion of a contract for the supply of this type of technology? Thirdly, are you still convinced, Madam Secretary - and I assume you are aware of the difficult situation of our citizens and our country - of the correctness of this procedure? Do you not consider the option that is offered, i.e. the use of existing resources after the modernisation carried out, even if the aircraft does not meet the fifth generation aircraft category? Thank you, Madam Secretary, for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-15-ps2021-065-09-007-137.u180	Thank you for presenting your interpelation. Again, I will sum up that the Minister is duly excused and will reply in writing within 30 days in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I also note that we have used up all the applications for today's oral intercessions to members of the government, so I'm done with oral intercessions. I remind you that tomorrow, on Friday, June 16th, we will continue at 9 o'clock, namely the interrupted 66th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Have a quiet evening and evening, everyone. [[It returns after some time to the microphone, the sound has already been turned off.]] We still have to formally close the meeting. Since we have already voted on the proposal to remove the remaining unnegotiated items approved by the 65th session of the Chamber of Deputies, I note that at this moment we have exhausted the approved programme of the 65th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I am ending this meeting. I remind you that tomorrow, on Friday, July 16th, the 66th session of the Chamber of Deputies will continue at 9 o'clock, and the 69th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies will begin five minutes after the end.
