ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u1	103. Government bill amending Act No. 262/2006 Sb., Labor Code, as amended, and some other laws /house print 423/ - third reading Before I give the floor to the Minister, I will ask you, colleagues, provided you have important subjects to discuss, so in order to keep quiet, so please let the discussions take place in the lobby. And now I will ask the plaintiff, Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka, and rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Member Marie Jílková. I ask the Minister to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u2	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, let me at least briefly introduce House Press No. 423, which is an amendment to the Labour Code at third reading. I, of course, mentioned this bill here, commented mainly at first reading, then at second reading, but I will allow myself a very brief, quick recapitulation here. It is primarily a transposition amendment, where two directives are being transposed, namely the directive on transparent and predictable working conditions in the European Union, as well as the directive on the balance between the work and private life of parents and carers. I must say that, of course, around these directives and their parameters, there was a great debate both on the committees and on the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies, even at first and second reading. I was, of course, perceiving...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u3	I'll ask my colleagues especially in the left side of the hall to calm down. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u4	Of course, I have seen many impulses, as well as critical expressions of many of you, and of you who are really from practice, from different fields. I would just like to say briefly that if we look at the changes that relate to the actual transposition, the question of the timing of working time is a matter where there is simply not a lot of possibility to adjust this part of the transposition here, where there is simply clear European legislation, which clearly states that the employer must give information about how his work will be carried out under an agreement on the execution of the work or the DPČ, on the implementation of the activity, carried out. There's got to be a clear framework here. There are also areas defined here concerning obstacles to work or the issue of the right to leave, for which, of course, there have been many discussions and for which... or in this area, of course, there is also some proposed amendment under the amendments. Then we also touch on the adjustment of, let's say, some regime that could make it easier for the future to report costs for people who work remotely from home. There are actually three modes available here. Either there's an agreement between an employer and an employee that this work is done from home without a refund being requested here, because it is perceived as the benefit, which may also save the costs of the employee. Or there is an opportunity to account for the real costs actually shown, which, of course, bear a certain administrative burden. Or maybe there's a legal option to use the basic minimum amount that actually quantifys the costs that arise if you work from home. Then there are some other changes that relate, of course, to the areas... For example, the area of service, the service of documents, the issue of communication, which will be conducted electronically, so that at least in some minimalist part we can address the issue of digitalisation and respond to the 21st century level. Let me make a brief comment on the 13 amendments that Members and Members have read here, which I think have been discussed on the various committees. I want to say here that there's a deal, a gentleman's agreement with social partners, both employers and unions. We have agreed that this Labour Code, after dealing with inter-ministerial commentary proceedings for about five months, is a compromise proposal on which both trade unions and employers have found agreement, and we, as a government and a government coalition, have also said to the Prime Minister at the tripartite meeting that we respect and respect this agreement. I understand a lot of impulses that came in here. For some, I understand why they are being served and loaded, but here I am clearly saying for me as a Gesture Minister on this issue, I cannot and will not give a positive opinion on any of these amendments in the light of this gentleman's agreement. Even after all the amendments were read, we had negotiations with the social partners. Once again, we have also been over the issue of the impact of these amendments on the transposition of these two directives. And I must say that for some amendments it is absolutely clear that they are in complete conflict with the obligation to transpose these two directives, particularly the directive on transparent and predictable working conditions. So here I explain why I cannot give a positive opinion somewhere, why some amendments will be absolutely strictly and clearly disagreeable - this will be in those cases where it is indeed incompatible with European law. And we are in a situation where we have to implement. The proceedings against the Czech Republic have already been initiated, and this is now suspended, because the European Commission is monitoring our legislative process and is waiting to see how we can complete this implementation. So there is still a chance that the Czech Republic will avoid any sanctions. I understand some of the amendments as well as some, say, goodwill, which is led by the least possible complications for this practice and so on. I just want to say that it is then necessary to realise that if such adjustments were adopted, this will, of course, also bear negative consequences, including possible sanctions for the Czech Republic. So much for explaining some of the amendments and what position I will therefore give as a Gesture Minister on these proposals. I would like to mention here perhaps one thing concerning the letter, which has been sent here by all Members and Members, I think, in particular, by my fellow trade union colleagues, from the medical field. I asked my colleagues at the MPSV to address this letter which you went to and the appeal that this amendment, which was actually tabled after some debate at the level of the Health Committee by my colleague Vít Kaňkovský, would allow me to read the opinion of my department. 22 days. 6. 2023 The Department of Health and Social Welfare of the Czech Republic and the Medical Union of Members of the Chamber of Deputies sent a letter, which was also forwarded to me. The letter contains an appeal in order not to support Mr Kaňkovský's amendment to re-establish another agreed work in the health sector, referring to the so-called gentlemen's agreement with the social partners I was talking about. In particular, the letter contains the following arguments: Health care is based on an enormous amount of overtime work. The amendment allegedly means increasing the number of doctors and paramedics to 1.45, which is supposed to make these employees serfs. The amendment is contrary to Article 2 (2) (a) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 2 (2) (a) of the (b) the directive on other aspects of working time, according to which Member States are to ensure that the average working time for each period of seven days, including overtime, does not exceed 48 hours. The amendment is contrary to Article 2 (2) (a) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 2 (2) (a) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, Article 4 (1) (a) (a) Directive 2003/88/EC requiring no employer to require a worker to work for more than 48 hours in a period of seven days without the prior approval of the worker. Further overtime in health care means a deterioration in the working conditions of doctors. [[12.50 hours]] The amendment runs counter to the Work-life Balance Directive and is entitled to flexible work arrangements. Application of Article 4 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 22 Directive 2003/88/EC requires prior negotiation of an exemption at the level of the EU institutions. On these substantial arguments, which were addressed to all of us in this letter, I would like to state the following for the MPSV. We on this proposal, and I will say this here, take a neutral position in view of the outcome of the Committee on Health and the Committee on Social Policy's negotiations, in view of the introduction of the right to leave the so-called negotiators. Both opposition and coalition MEPs drew attention to the risk of limiting available medical care. Another agreed overtime work in health care is purely voluntary - I repeat, voluntary - institute which benefits from an overtime bonus of 25 percent of the average earnings. There is no increase in the number of doctors and paramedics. None of the employees need to agree to any more overtime. The measure would be put in place for a period of five years, which should cover a period of time before further additional personnel capacity is secured, and then there will be derogation. The amendment introduces further agreed overtime work in identical intensities, as was the case between 2008 and 2013. This institute, too, has not been criticized by the EU institutions. Article 6 (1) (a) (b) Directive 2003/88/EC is not in breach of the amendment in question, as Article 4 (2) of Directive 2003/88/EC does not affect the amendment in question, as it does not affect the amendment. 22 The same directive, the so-called opt-out, makes an exception to the cited article. 6, where, among other things, the rule of maximum 48 hours of work per week, including overtime, may not be complied with. The amendment contains all the conditions for the introduction of an exemption under Art. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21 (3) of Directive 2003/88/EC. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) as prior approval of the worker is required. Other mandatory prerequisites, i.e. keeping a special record of further overtime work, prohibiting any penalties for refusal of overtime work and establishing specific supervision by the SÚIP of the safety of work, including the determination of penalties for non-compliance with these conditions. Application of Article 4 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 22 Directive 2003/88/EC does not require the negotiation of the Commission's prior consent, but only that the Commission be concerned with the application of Article 22 (2) of Directive 2003/88/EC. 22 notified. This can also be done subsequently. The Work-life Balance Directive is not violated, all rights of employees under this Directive are not affected by the amendment in question, and the Work-life Balance Directive itself does not contain provisions on limitation of working time or overtime. So much more, I think also quite detailed, but at the same time, I am arguing that the clear settlement of these, let's say, critical comments that have come from fellow trade unions here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u5	Thank you, Minister. The amendments are set out in the Parliaments of the Press 423/6, which was delivered on 15 June 2023, and the resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as the Parliamentary Press 423/7. I am opening a debate to which I am registering several applications. Mr Milan Brázdil will be the first to speak, Mrs Andrea Babišová and others will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u6	Thank you for the floor. I know we're at the third reading, and we'd only have legislative technical here, but I'm just gonna keep you guys here. [[have]] When discussing this press, the transposition of the two directives of Europe, we asked that we get it for the health committee to discuss. It didn't happen. This took the initiative to the health committee, and we discussed it a lot. The conclusion was, the worker here - I don't know her name anymore, the master who was there from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs - she said: you can't, don't put anything in, you can't do anything, because it's a transposition and whatever you do, it's just wrong. And that's where we broke up. Then why are we putting it in the legal order? We can't do anything? Europe will just dictate everything and we just have to listen to it? So there were ideas about how to help health care, because you know that paramedics are mainly going with the fact that they have a lot, a lot of jobs, and that makes us even available to care. Then it turned out that we have some amendments. I'd like to draw attention to one of them right now. Please, this is not about increasing some overtime work, but the point is that people who go to work and should be able to take a break at the job could serve a 24-hour shift. What will result? That's the reason. You know there's a code of work here, but there's a code of service. While firefighters and police can be on 24-hour duty, they have eight-hour service, they have 12s, they have 24-hour service. And their work is exactly the same as the work of the paramedic at the paramedics. He also has a chance to rest between the exits. And there, unlike the Labor Code, they don't have the opportunity to tell themselves I want it or I don't want it, that's where they're ordered. But I just wanted it to be an option for those professions that have the opportunity to take a break at the job so they could serve 24 hours. Ladies and gentlemen, what's going to happen? Here we were just saying how important it is for truckers to get home and be with their family. But I want the exact same thing - to reduce the number of trips to work. Twelve - home, twelve the next day, way home, work, way out of work. More time to spend your life more comfortable, but not increase the amount of hours worked. It should all stay that way, it should stay that way. Some argue - but you can't, you might as well make a mistake as a doctor. But there's this condition that there must be a break for rest. And that's there, that's possible there, in certain professions it's possible. So I want to ask you, I know that you gave a negative opinion on the Social Committee, I know that the Minister says: I can't afford anything. But I'm not sure there's a court dealing with this, that it's not allowed when it's actually possible, of course, in the service bill, 24-hour service. It's just a possibility. That person has to agree to it. They'll be happy to agree, they'll be more with their family, there'll be less burnt diesel, petrol, and yet the work will remain worked out. Everything's gonna be as good as it's gonna be so far. For me, I want to ask you, try to think about whether it's something... That's not politics. Anyone who could work in a job like this either decides yes, I can do it, or I can't do it, and I can't. So I want to ask you once again, it's Amendment J I put it at the last minute and it's just to allow those who want to do their job more than 12 hours under the Labour Code. Thank you for listening to me at least a few of you, and please try to think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u7	Thank you. Mrs Andrea Babišová will now appear and Mr Miroslav Janulík will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Czech Republic is a phenomenon at work for contractors. A large number of our citizens are thus helping themselves in a difficult financial situation and, in addition to their basic employment, they are working on an agreement. I am very pleased that the Minister here today has fully justified the amendment of Dr Kaňkovský, which we discussed on the Committee on Social Affairs, because I think that this amendment is very important for us to maintain the continuity of health care for citizens of the Czech Republic due to the trivial number of our doctors and medical staff. As he well said, it is voluntary work, this work cannot be ordered and we will certainly support this amendment by Mr Vít Kaňkovský. [[13.00 hours]] The Czech Republic, as I said before... we have a lot of citizens working on the agreement, but I see a big problem that out of the 50 billion crowns paid for the work on the agreement, only 2 million crowns were paid to the health and social insurance system. This is also why we are being adjusted, why work is being adjusted to an agreement, why home office is being adjusted, when a large covideo pandemic has shown us that we need to count on the fact that home office work can be organized - in quotation marks - in bulk, and it needs to be given some administrative standard, proper staff culture and so that there are rules that are for everyone. I know that at this point we are at third reading and that only amendments which are legislatively technical or which concern technical errors, grammatical errors or also the correction of the effectiveness of the date of the draft law can be tabled. That is why I am here for the members of the YES movement, the Social Committee, when I want to make an amendment proposing to correct the date of effectiveness of this proposal, one month longer than is now proposed in this legislative regulation. Reason. The Government's bill brings extensive changes to the Labour Code. According to the petitioner, in view of the need for a rapid transposition of directives into the legal order of the Czech Republic, it is necessary for the law to take effect on the first day of the calendar month following its publication, with the exception of changes consisting of the introduction of the right to leave for workers working on an agreement which will take effect on 1 January 2024. We can understand the effort to quickly translate, of course, because we are running out of time and this transposition was due to take place in August of last year, but we cannot also overlook giving sufficient time to employers and employees to get familiar with changes and to be able to properly introduce these planned changes to life in their workplaces and in their businesses. In order to maintain the proposed effectiveness, these entities could only have a few calendar days to get to know this arrangement, and this completely denies us the meaning of the so-called vacatio legis, which is an important prerequisite for the functioning of legal systems in states where the principle of not being aware of the law is applied. At the same time, delaying the transposition by one single month or part of a single month, taking into account the overall transposition period and the duration of the transposition, cannot constitute a major complication, or at least not serious enough, to justify significant interference with the legal certainty of the addressees of the new legislation. The amendment therefore proposes that the effectiveness of the law be fixed only on the first day of the second calendar month following the date of the law's publication. In view of the fact that this government proposal is already at third reading, the amendment is applied on the basis of Section 95 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u9	Thank you, too, Madame. Mr Miloslav Janulík will now appear and Mr Pavel Svoboda will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We've found some compromise, and now, of course, I'm going to talk mainly about the application of the Health Care Labour Code. Look, I've basically been a senior in health my whole life. And the beginning for every paramedic - and I'm talking about doctors - was that I was once told that it was a problem, and I soon found out that it was a problem, because the time spent at work was incredibly long. And just for your sake, it never happened to me that my peers or even completely close to me... the closest ones who are with you in the same household will understand that, but no one wants to believe that you can work like this, because I'm sorry, with all due respect, everyone's got two nights off. We didn't even have the right to leave. And to give you an idea, a working year - and now I won't be accurate - maybe 1988 had 1,900 hours, a working hours penzum normal, 8.5 hours, and I might have worked 2,900. So I didn't work for a year, I worked for 1.7 years. So it would logically imply that I shouldn't have been on vacation for 20 days, but 70 percent more, that is, 32 days more. And that I've been working 17 years from 10 years and 20 to 34. So when was I supposed to be retired? But just once my father, let him be light, told me that no animal protection law applies to paramedics. Which is basically how I felt for years flying, and it's true. And everyone got used to it. And even we doctors are no longer able to see it, to accept it, because it's a tax for doing what you do. But the times have changed, they've progressed. The truth is, when you work so hard, you learn quickly, quite quickly. In four years, he'll learn what he would normally learn for 10 years. So he really gets the erudition. The truth is, when a man is young, he adapts, endures sleeplessness and endures the stress and decision-making of lives, like in my field of two lives, because there's a mother and a child in the obstetrics. It's most birthed statistically between midnight and 6:00 a.m. And so on. That's what you pay for, like we used to say, myocardial scars and stuff like that. But society and we all assumed it, and for some time it seemed like we were even someone's property, that we belonged to someone, and no one ever stopped. But now times have changed. That's how it worked for decades, plus at a time when my classmates were making decent money, I was still studying, I wasn't making any money, but when I came into practice, the state gave me 12 hundred a month and thought it was all fine. And then, of course, when the Republic was fenced, we had no choice, we couldn't work in another field, it was absolutely impossible. Today, the fences aren't, people can leave, so they're leaving, because what we're dealing with now, west of our borders, has been dealt with a long time ago. And that's where they solved it by literally paying those doctors with gold, especially those who can do something, of course. So who's working with this kind of strain, in a few years, earns our astronomical sums that provide him with a decent life, so he doesn't care about anything but his field. But now all of a sudden... I have been promising myself from our accession to the EU that this problem will start to be resolved. And he wasn't. He just moved on. And he came up with what my colleague Babišová said, a monstrous system of dépépépépépépépépépépépépécí and I don't know what... And of course, there's only one person doing it with one hand. And imagine that there are colleagues who are younger than me, who maybe look at the statistics, they look at it, they say, well, I've worked 17 years over the last 10 years. I had, like, 9,000 overtime hours. I know people like that. Top doctors who work in a smaller hospital RCP have to be on the phone all the time. And if they take five days off, they don't do the performances. But you and we, as patients, expect to see a neurosurgeon sitting behind every willow waiting for someone to fall off their bike because he didn't have a helmet. That's very common with us, and the expectations are completely impeccable. But those doctors are just people, too. Those paramedics are just people. And so now all of a sudden, it happened that - I'm just quoting it - 2014/112, the EU directive banned the overtime here and placed health care as well as transportation, the railways. How about now? We're still looking... it's been nine years. Still nothing. Because, of course... then, as life went on, I found myself in management positions, and as director of the hospital, I had to make sure that the course was in order to meet the social expectations. And all of a sudden... But there was a medical chamber and a medical union club and all that, and all of a sudden, the younger ones, they told you no, we don't want to live like this. [[Czech]] 'Cause a young doctor says it's cool, okay, but when am I gonna live? [[13.10 hours]] Nobody asked me that. I basically had it as a prison sentence, like four or five years I haven't seen the morning of life. And when I left the state service, I fell for about 45 days of unselected leave, and no one cared. I don't think anybody paid me back then, either. But it's different now. So what are we gonna do? Because, of course, now we've found a compromise and we're going to postpone it by five years. Here to my colleague Kaňkovský, through you. Well, that's just pushing the problem away again, Vítek. I am prophesying to you that sooner or later someone will file - from those young doctors, and I would not be surprised if he filed a lawsuit or asked the court for preliminary measures to simply block it. Because there are guidelines here, and it has to be followed. And of course, among our public, it's said that the faculty will manage somehow, they have a relatively large number of staff. But we know that they have to serve a well-tested doctor and so on and so forth. He must be within range. And to do that is basically a superhuman task. I can't. If it were to come true, we actually found the compromise, because the health service would stop. That wouldn't be possible. Plus, take it that the system has evolved for hundreds of years, which is why the systems of some kind of vision work, as well as Marie Terezie, I don't know much. That's why my colleague's here, maybe he says 24-hour service. Take it when you're a patient, it has logic. Because every disease has its own dynamics. And if you go there for eight hours, eight hours is too much for some diseases and some desperately few. You're not going to notice the dynamics of the disease, the development of the disease. That's why it's evolved that the doctors are stuck in there, they're still there. Because I served Friday, Saturday, Sunday, but of course I've seen those patients continuously for 72 hours. I left work Monday afternoon. So even more, almost 100 hours, 96 hours I've seen them develop their health. And, of course, it has the profound medical logic. But he would rightly expect to be paid accordingly. Which, of course, as I say, in Germany, if the doctor tries it, which he did here and works in Germany or Switzerland or Austria, then he finds that they really pay them as very, very, very well. And if they don't have to, they don't. We were motivated to serve to learn something, and we knew that if I wasn't around and I wasn't there, there must be one of my colleagues. It's just eternal fire. But today there's no drive in those generations that they want to learn something. They want to live. It's justified, why not? And take what it says - 25 percent bonus. There's been a debate here, I'm not gonna tell you how long it's been, on the health committee's soil, it's like a year or so, he's been dealing with the Central Bohemia Region here, he's got no emergency, he's not able to secure it and all that. That there's a demand that those doctors would want 600 crowns an hour. And there was a lady who said it was immoral - 600 crowns an hour rude. We're talking about the emergency room. At night, Fridays, holidays, Christmas, Silvestry. The bricklayer will give you 1,000 crowns today! And it's not at night or Saturday or Sunday. And that's not immoral? So how much would we have to pay those doctors to stay there at night and wait for it... This is where we talked about traffic. You know how trivial and useless it is, Saturday night, the entire operative team is standing at the table because the gentleman didn't put the helmet on and the beers were more and fall off the bike and it's useless work. Basically, it's a useless job. But it just has to be there. And you all automatically assume that. You have no idea it couldn't be like that. And you have no idea that this guy's been standing on his feet for three days, and -- and I've been there for myself, that I didn't know my name, or even my name. Because you get so chronically tired, then you... you have to adapt. But now it's just breaking time. It'll go away five years by compromise, but what's going to work out? Nothing will be solved! I'm afraid the money won't be motivational anymore. Because the doctors, the young ones, will say that money is not a motivation for them, that time is a motivation for them. And in order to do that, we would need them - now I'm not going to say a percent more, but at least a third more, so we can cover it. Well, we're not gonna take that, it's not gonna shake out of its sleeve, even if it's a beautiful thing to do and so on. It takes years, years, years. So, basically, I don't see any solution. There isn't one. The move is nice, but like I said, the moment he points it out, and the LOK will certainly do it, and just lean on it, so I don't know how to deal with it. Or, of course, there's a way to do it, but it's not gonna work out here with all the depépek tricks and stuff like that. He's just gonna have to find some - in quotes, I'd say an interim solution. A definitive solution that will simply correspond to the 21st century, the findings of the European Union that... I'm saying I've been promising it for a long time, and it's been a long time, and to my amazement it's been so many years, we're members of the Union, and we're still not. Of course, we meet at various symposiums and everywhere else around the world with colleagues from foreign and from different states, and if the debate comes up on this, no one wants to believe it. It's just that we're, like my colleague Babišová said, we're a total rarity. The Czech Republic is... Even the Slovák, because we had a common state, it was the same way. But I don't know, of course, the Minister is trying to make it work, but I don't think it's a good solution, that it's a kind of compromise. But again, I feel like we spilled the baby with the tub, that we just wanted to do it to make it work, but we sacrificed a certain professional group again for her to just do it and keep quiet. Because what? But as I'm saying, now imagine that a colleague will call and say, "I've been working seventeen over the last ten years, and you haven't paid me, nor let me choose the vacation, nor did you count my retirement. And Vítek knows that there aren't a lot of such people in this republic in our field, or in the medicine. Because even here, look at IKEM, those transplant teams, they're still on their feet. But that doesn't seem weird to anyone. The fact that someone's kicking a balloon and taking tens of millions, that's fine, and a top surgeon has 350 kroner per hour on the scale, that's all fine, and everyone's getting used to it. So I'm just pointing out, I don't want to evaluate at all, I'm just pointing out that we can't solve the problem. That we're moving it, we're just moving it in part, but we're not dealing with it. And even the displacement can crash in a very short time. I guess it's time to work or think about it, specifically in the health sector, I don't know the rest, how the health system works, and how it follows the labor code, that it doesn't go around it. Because every manager is aware that he's just riding on a blade like that, it's really just a matter of perspective and interpretation. And whoever just wants to hit a dog finds a stick. And, of course, the remuneration system is closely related to that. 'Cause that's what managers or hospital directors are gonna tell you today, he's pretty hard to find a chief. Today we were... I'm of course, it's always been my base, I was thinking, yeah, I'd like to be chief. Because it's the word itself. And, of course, then I understood the enormous responsibility. And today, everyone says, "I'm gonna have a huge responsibility, but I'm not gonna be able to make money so dramatic that it's worth it that a man ruins his life." And then - a colleague here would confirm it - Friday at 3:00 p.m., everyone leaves and the chieftain stays there. Because you can't order anyone to do that. They say no, no, you wrote me a service there, but I've already worked this week, I've had one, I've worked 60 hours and I'm just leaving because that's what the law says. Someone has to stay there. And that difference, of course, when we look, because we're not dead-end champions, there's no need to discover the long-discovered, we look into Austria or Germany, how it works, and we see that you become chief of staff, ten years of primary, which, of course, means a huge strain, responsibility and so on, but in those ten years it's been royally paid. Royal. Not that he has a little more than the others. But if he just happens to have a heart attack, he's safe for the rest of his life, including his kids. And that's just what we have to decide, or this society has to decide how it's going to go. Like I said, of course it can't be simplified, but when the doctor turns on the TV and sees someone kicking the balloon and taking the tens of millions, it's... it's hard. It's hard. [[13.20 hours]] And, of course, all this talk about how we study, and then we leave, and that we're... Anyone who has a kid in college knows it's fiction that they study for free. He doesn't study for free. Of course, they don't pay tuition, but otherwise it's extremely costly for parents. So consider it. Think about it, but I'm telling you, I don't see any light at the end of the tunnel. It would probably need to have some idea of the solution, because it will not again - through you I say to my colleague Kaňkovský - it will not take five years. Vitek, it won't last five years. We're all futures, exes, and as we sit here, we're all potential, with certainty, patients. So we're gonna want someone to treat us. As it goes, misfortunes don't go on mountains, they go on people. Then when you have to seek help, you don't have to worry about it. We know that the view is always narrowed down, and everyone sees themselves, and the tolerance level is zero. You can see that it grows brutally in society, that the motivation of young people to study our field is just getting weaker too. It looks like how many people apply, but it's just not what it used to be, and it's probably getting worse. Because it still doesn't... Unfortunately, social prestige goes hand in hand with remuneration, and if the pay isn't worth much, then the prestige isn't worth much either, is it? Well, that's about all I wanted to say. I don't know if anyone listened to this, but I'm telling you, I'm putting my heart on it, we're already working on it, we're thinking that the space is just narrowing down considerably. And even though we're gonna approve now -- it's definitely gonna go away, you're gonna vote it out, and I'm not gonna go against it, either, because I want it to work. But I'm saying, the victim, we're asking these people to make sacrifices that those next generations aren't willing to pay like we were paying them. That we just lived the way we lived. Of course, when you look back, all I remember from that professional life is the walls of the hospital and the white coat. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u11	Thank you. Mr Brázdil's point of fact. Mr Pavel Svoboda, duly signed up for the general debate, will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u12	I'd like to respond to the process. Sorry I'm slowing down. I would like to ask you, Minister, do you think, or do you know that the possibility of a 24-hour shift, when the break is - this is not about increasing the penza of the clock - is something that the directive forbids. I'm no expert, but I think you'll know. So we can't, nor such a thing, that if they're already working and enough so that they can stay more with the family by actually shortening, or the time devoted to going to work and working, that it will help the quality of life today. If it's not replaced with money anymore, if it's not about it being paid well, then some people can stay in the family, and maybe it's better for some people to be home and have some time off and spend it in a nice sport or something. Of course, I don't want us to get into any trouble. But I know it's in the service bill, that's where it's possible. I'm not an expert on service law, but they can have a 24-year-old. And we can't do that to each other? We would pay so much money for this, those people would be on duty for 24 hours - unless, of course, there must be a break. He can't have the man - and he still has to agree to it. Please, could you...? I don't want to catch up with you. Maybe you don't know. But if anyone knew, I'd be happy to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u13	Thank you. Now duly signed up, Mr. MP... No, I'm sorry, the Minister will respond with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u14	I will try to give a factual reply to Mr Brázdil here, or I will leave him here to see the precise justification for the references. I can quote here directly the opinion of my colleagues from the legislative and factual section. The amendment is in direct conflict with the requirement of Article 3 of Directive 2003/88/EC, on certain aspects of the organisation of working time, which governs the daily rest of workers and which applies to all workers, regardless of the legal form of performance of dependent labour - that is important - that is to say, the performance of work within the framework of non-employment agreements. In doing so, the article sets out - and now, of course, there's the whole description of how it's laid down. So, unfortunately, even in this regard, we cannot find any degree of flexibility to comply with this amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u15	Thank you. Mr Pavel Svoboda, now duly applied for, will be prepared by Mrs Vladimíra Lesenská. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly respond to the Minister's opening words and ask for the support of an amendment. I would like to touch on the agreements to carry out the work and, for them, the right to leave. The problem for me is that it's not a right, but it's actually a duty on that vacation. Like me or all of us, we understand work agreements - which are not work agreements - that is some part-time - but the DPP is limited by 300 hours. I see this clearly as a short-term issue, time-limited and very often especially irregular. Typically a wardrobe girl in a theater or an usher. It doesn't matter, it's just irregular activities. I certainly wouldn't want to stand up for those who abuse the system and have five or ten deals and don't pay social, health, fall out of the system. That's not my goal. I really care about those people who have one agreement with one employer and don't abuse the system. A specific example typically in the theater. The director of the National Theatre Jan Burian personally told me that he has nearly 700 contractors. Let's face it, they don't want those vacations. If a pensioner or anyone at school is going to work as a part-time job at the DPP, she should not be on leave. I'm actually convinced of that, I'm sorry. I don't think the consequences of this standard will be positive. Although I am aware of the compromise on the agreement that such a difficult press, such as the Labour Code, needs to be discussed very well and find the fragile compromise, I would like to ask you to support Amendment B, which states that leave will not be granted to those who have only one job agreement with one employer. I am aware, of course, that the MPSV people will have comments that this is not a good implementation of the directive, but it is worth pointing out that the directive should also be implemented according to local practice. That's what I think is absolutely essential. Of course, I respect and understand that the Minister has a gentleman's agreement. Nevertheless, I would like to ask him and all of you to support Amendment B, and I would like to ask the Minister to take at least a neutral position on this proposal. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u17	Thank you. I have two factual points here. First is Mr. Ondřej Babka, then Minister Marian Jurečka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u18	Hello. Mr President, thank you for the floor. [[place]] I'd like to join my fellow Svoboda in this. And I should ask the Minister if the amendment B, which he therefore explained to Mr Svoboda, really concerns labour agreements and the obligation to be on leave. I understand that this is implementation, but as mentioned here, it is a local custom here in the Czech Republic, and really for the cultural sector, for example, the pure implementation, as set up in the Labour Code, would be a threat to the seasonal work, to the brigades. I think that the amendment is logically written, there should be no circumvention if it concerns only one of the labour agreements. I would like to ask if, in your opinion, Minister, this amendment is contrary to the proposed implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u19	Thank you. Now Minister Marian Jurečka, Mr Milan Brázdil will prepare himself with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u20	Thank you. I have to say with a sigh that I would love to be able to accommodate some of the subjects that are coming here. However, here the question of implementing the directive is absolutely uncompromising. I say this as a person who is very close to the cultural, musical world, because I have a number of personal life friends among musicians, and I understand the issue very well. [[13.30 hours]] However, I can only quote: Article 7 of the directive on certain aspects of the organisation of working time requires EU Member States to ensure that each worker is entitled to paid leave for a calendar year of at least four weeks. From the point of view of EU law, it is irrelevant whether a worker, within the meaning of the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union, works under national law on the basis of a contract of employment, or works under an agreement on the performance of work or an agreement on work activities. The directive in question does not allow any exception in this regard, including, therefore, the judicate, which unfortunately is the directive in this area. So we really don't have any room for manoeuvre. I would just like to point out that, according to the Government's bill, the right to leave will not arise unless the contract for carrying out the work lasted at least four weeks and the employee has worked at least 80 hours on the basis of it. That's important, the second condition. A government proposal which already significantly limits the number of cases where the right to leave for employees from the labour agreement arises. Cases of work agreements lasting a few days or several weeks or DPP where the employee only works occasionally and to a small extent in a calendar year. Then let me just say one more thing here. Of course, it is not only the option of the holiday, but also the agreement to compensate for this holiday financially.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u21	Thank you, Minister, for keeping time. Have a good afternoon, colleagues. I am taking over the proceedings of the meeting and we will continue with another factual one, to which Mr Brázdil has applied. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u22	Thank you. I have to be quick. Minister, you've quoted exactly now, I believe you, but it's still an interpretation of lawyers. I now have the whole directive ahead of me, and there's chapter 5 of the derogations and exceptions, Article 17, and those deviations are listed there. And between the deviations it says - under number 3 and point (c) it is that in the case of an activity involving the need for continuous service - and then there is directly mentioned in the paragraph next that it is precisely treatment and care, about provision in medical facilities. So I guess it's possible to make an exception, they allow us to, the directive says so directly in Article 17, Chapter 5. I'm not a lawyer, but somebody's been preparing it, and I don't think he wants it, and this is where the directive allows it. So what's the truth, then? It's complicated. In fact, I don't even know who's gonna tell the truth here. We want it, somebody wants it, they allow it, and some lawyer or some interpretation says no. And then we raise our hand for it, and we don't even know if it's a good thing or a bad thing because we're not that focused. Please, that's right there in the directive, it's the deviations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u23	Thank you. Another factual one, Mr Pavel Svoboda. And Minister Jurečka will prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u24	I really don't want to stall. I will just briefly add that if the holiday starts, say, at 80 hours of worked time and the DPP is with a limit of 300 hours, we will, for example, develop new limits from next year's consolidation package, which may not be written, or at least I do not know them, from which the social and health payment will shift, so it is simply more complex and unfortunately more administratively demanding for the system. I really want to do this thing, I don't want to play any political struggle here. My point is to make it simple, clear, so that it doesn't cost any more bureaucratic forces in the operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u25	Thank you. And the Minister also signed up with the facts. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u26	Thank you. I'm going to respond quickly to both of my previous speakers. I am here when I mentioned the reaction to the letter of the representatives... both President Žitníková and President Engel, so I actually quoted the very parts on which the exception rests, which are actually reflected in the amendment tabled by my colleague Kaňkovský. At the same time, I also mentioned why the proposal proposed by the colleague here is not possible, let's say... and does not comply with the directive. And it's not like there's any evil will or unwillingness. In this respect, I am a person who is really trying to find the best way to not complicate life and how to respond to the needs of this practice. But we have just spent really hours renegotiating with the Commission, and I have also involved fellow MEPs - I am now saying this to my fellow Member, Mr Svoboda - when we were again looking for ways to find a shift in interpretation in this debate, some adaptation to our national conditions. But sometimes when you come to the fact that you already have the interpretation given by the Court of Justice of the European Union at some point, there's no room for any variation, there's just no room for debate. And let's face it, in the Czech Republic, the extent of the individual posts outside the standard employment relationship is unusual. Unusual in terms of how we view it in other states. The fact that in our country, above all, the agreements on the implementation of work by chains, the advantage of not burdening the full social contribution, have become a very advantageous instrument has led to a huge increase. Yes, we're used to it in the dimension in which we use it, but I don't think it's right and sustainable in the long run.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u27	Thank you. That was the last point in fact, and now for the general debate, Mrs Lesenská, Mr Kaňkovský will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u28	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, Minister, colleagues, colleagues, our SPD MEP generally supports reasonable adjustments to the Labour Code. It is crucial for us not to reduce the protection of employees' rights with these changes, but, if possible, to strengthen them so that these adjustments are realistic, feasible, enforceable, but also disproportionately financially or otherwise affect employers, especially smaller ones. And most importantly, to avoid hitting public service clients, like our patients in the health system, which also has a very significant impact on the adjustments. We welcome the fact that certain rules for the so-called home office are being introduced into the law, which is becoming more frequent after the Corona epidemic, and many employers offer home office as a benefit when they are looking for new workers. It is also very good for us that the rights of workers to work agreements and labour agreements will be strengthened. For example, the rules for taking leave and rest are set for these agreements. But at the same time, we must also ensure that these measures do not deteriorate day to day and make staffing of certain fields and operations more difficult. And we're back to health care and his problems. We will therefore also support the amendment in this regard, but we do not consider it a lasting and sufficient solution. We believe that we must quickly remove the causes of the bad situation in this area - the lack of doctors and medical personnel, but also the fact that employment in uninsured agreements has become somewhere the norm and replacement of standard employment for insured employment. In short, employers are using him. We defend the rights of so-called SPD negotiators continuously. For example, at the time of coronanavir, we advocated their claim to financial compensation or to infirmary. It is at this time that the gaps in the social system have shown very much, and the Labour Code in relation to uninsured agreements and in relation to the pension system that need to be resolved comprehensively in the future. Ladies and gentlemen, Lucka Šafránková has tabled an amendment to the SPD on this press. It is the case that the Labour Code, even in the proposed amended text, contains provisions which prohibit employers, without exceptions, from employing pregnant workers with any overtime. I consider this strict adjustment to be too strict and binding. Overtime work is not only a welcome source of income for many of them, but also often an absolutely necessary economic and social need. They are low-income workers, single mothers, in short, these people. In fact, high prices and inflation are important to them at present. [[13.40 hours]] For many pregnant workers, overtime is also an important source of saving before leaving for parental and maternity leave, which often bring a significant decline in income for families. Regardless of the fact that the ban on overtime can be avoided by work black or we are back on uninsured employment agreements or non-employment agreements. So let us not create another source for extraterrestrial action and modify this matter to be legal. We therefore propose that the employer should not be allowed to order overtime for pregnant workers, similar to workers and workers who are caring for a child under one year of age, which is also part of the Labour Code, but that they may, on the contrary, exercise it in cases where they choose so voluntarily and agree with the employer. Thank you for supporting this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u29	Thank you, Madame. Mr Brázdil is now registered with the facts. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u30	Sorry, I can't do it, I have to get off. I personally spoke with Milan Kubk, President of the Czech Medical Chamber, and spoke on the phone with Martin Engel, head of the Medical Union Club. They don't mind the 24-hour service, on the contrary. But what bothers them is the increase in overtime. And he's - at least I quote this Martin Engel - willing to instigate a trial somewhere and so on. Once again, they don't mind a 24-hour service. It's in line with the union organization, because the unions are actually gonna help people stay with their family so they can do the job at once when they can, not after 12. I just wanted to tell you that I'm not lying, I'm telling you the truth, I've spoken to Kubek personally and Martin Engel on the phone. Then I don't know who the Minister was dealing with! What unions or who he's even been talking to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u31	Thank you. There's a debate... Excuse me, with the de facto Minister Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u32	I'm just going to react, because to be perfectly clear, the exception that Mr Brázdil here spoke of, so the one in the Labor Code today is contained, and it's possible to have longer shifts than 12 hours, it's possible to have a shift today in those areas that are defined in that exception, 16 hours, and within the 24 hours it's still necessary to calculate the break that's needed there. So we have this option in the Czech legal system and, of course, it is up to employers how they treat it and how they use it. The idea of giving 24 hours of continuous work without the right to rest is not possible. But for a shift to be more than 12 hours, in which case, in sum, that means 16 hours, there could be a shift.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u33	Thank you. And now Mr Kaňkovský is in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u34	Madam Vice-President, honourable Members of the Government, colleagues, let me also comment at third reading on today's already discussed amendment under letter C. It's about the other overtime work we agreed on for health care. I'd like to do a little bit of repairing my honored colleague Brázdil. I'm very sorry, and I'm going to mention that the medical unions - and I really appreciate them - have been a member of them for many, many decades, or two decades, for sure... The institute doesn't bring any more work for the doctors. There's no increase in overtime work, only legalized. Now, from the research that has been published many times in many media in recent days, it has been a survey of young doctors and some others, so it really follows that the volume of overtime work by Czech doctors and other health professionals is truly enormous. But we all know that. And we all know, and it has already been said here by my colleague Janulík that this is a 30-year problem in this country. And we should be a little ashamed of that, all of us who have been sitting here for some time now, that we haven't been able to figure it out. But I'm sorry about the medical unions spreading panic and false information here that the institute of further work overtime will bring us some more overtime for the doctors. No, they will serve as they have been, except that they will no longer go around the code of work on the edge of the law administered by employment agreements or by any other, as my colleague Miloš Janulík called it. That means we're just getting the overtime work into a legal framework. That means, let's not scare the doctors here, because that's just not how it is, and it's not true. I would just like to mention this amendment, it was right here, it really is only a temporary measure, we have to try very hard, and I have also talked about it with the Minister of Health - if we do not act very intensively immediately in order for the situation to change, our successors will stand here in five years and solve the exact same problem. And I would like to say from practice, I work with young doctors and I know that their situation today is not very good, that they actually have a slightly different view of the world, that is, they have the right to private life, they have the right to have the volume of that overtime work not as big as in the past. My colleague Janulík here mentioned what we can do about it. Yes, we need to restock the medical staff. This cannot be done without some better motivation to do health care work. That means we're gonna have to set the wages higher, we can't do it without it. So was the overtime job. And what I'm saying here is that the institute of the other overtime work is a deal. An agreement between an employee and an employer. Here is a great opportunity for the trade unions, because the 25 percent overtime is due by law, but the law allows other ways to appreciate the overtime work in the form of rewards and so on. That means, here's a great opportunity for the union to be realized. And then to the other measures in the future. These are very difficult political issues. We need to make care more effective and, for example, reduce abuse in emergency services, because if we have 24/7 365 days per year set up, that we are basically doing unlimited medicine, we are unable to provide it with personnel and we have to decide whether we will be able to do it in the future or not. It's politically very difficult. And then, of course, we can also talk about the tools that some states have west of us. Yes, we can agree to impose contractual salaries where there will be some amount of overtime work directly in the contract. But let's not say that this solves the problem completely. Because it still has to make the care more effective, because otherwise the doctor's gonna have the overtime there anyway, we're just gonna cover it with the contract pay. This means that we have some options for achieving this, but first of all we need to get more money into health care in terms of health care and health care awards, and we need to make health care more effective in some way. We don't have much more options. So the proposed institute of further overtime work is a provisional, voluntary measure, no one will be ruined in any way. And I say this with all my responsibilities to my colleagues, doctors and doctors, whom I greatly appreciate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u35	Thank you. Mr Juchelka will now speak with a point of fact and Mr Janulík will prepare himself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u36	Thank you so much for the floor. We will, of course, primarily support the transposition of the European directive so that it goes on. I'm just always so sighed because it's always just a question of the paramedics, but the overtime happens in social services, for example, in other sectors. And I believe that if this is to be primarily - and my colleague Kaňkovský, by your means, said here that this is actually some agreement across the Committee on Social Policy, but, of course, mostly the Committee on Health, I really miss it here, because we are talking about how to deal with this in the future, that we have a five-year transitional period, so that we can hear something more about this here, Mr. Health Minister Válek. And I think that if we have this very important point here, which, I would say, from the overwhelming majority, concerns the health sector more than the social services, I would expect them to give us a vision here. We have also made a resolution on the Committee on Social Policy thanks to the rapporteur, Marie Jílková - I thank her very much - which unfortunately did not go through to prepare a plan by the end of the year, how right here with the health professionals, but perhaps in the future also with the social services to deal with it, to consolidate it and in some way to stand up to it. So next to Minister Jurečka - and I say we support it again - I would expect Minister Válek to stand here and actually have some opinion on this for the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u37	Thank you. Mr Janulík is now registered with the facts. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u38	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. A colleague of the foreman's. Of course, as they say, every fox praises its tail. Of course, what applies to health care applies to all other fields. A colleague of Kaňkovský, through you. That was an excellent speech, and I agree warmly. But the context doesn't add up to the fact that you guys were here a while ago, that you were gonna take $14 billion from the health department! And that's the money that's gonna be missing now! If we had them, if the insurance companies had let them go, because they couldn't do anything else with them, the directors of the medical facilities had the money at their disposal, and they could just negotiate differently, and we didn't have to deal with the problem today. So you spilled the baby with the bathtub, and now you're saying it's gonna have to be dealt with by raising the funds. But why did you take them a while ago? You've reduced the payment for state insured people. So that's, I'd say, in some direct contradiction, and it seems curious. Then don't be surprised that the Medical Union Club is treating this the way it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u39	Thank you. Mr. Ambassador, that was the last point of fact. Now with priority rights, President Benda. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u40	Madam Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, after some consultation and opposition, I propose that we discuss the third reading today even after 14 o'clock until this point is discussed in the Labour Code. I think it's a shame to interrupt. Please brát this a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u41	Yes. This means that we would therefore vote after 14 o'clock before discussing this press. I'm gonna call in my coworkers from the lobby, and I'm gonna load up my apologies. Apologizes to President Pekarová Adamová from 12.45 to 14 hours for working reasons, Adámková Věra from 12.15 to 14 - working reasons, Berki Jan from 12.30 - working reasons, Bernard Josef from 12.30 - working reasons, Brož Lubomír from 12.45 to 13.30 and from 13.30 to 14 - health reasons, Dufek Aleš from 15 to 16 hours for family reasons. I'll stop reading the apologies. I have a request for withdrawal, Mr President, so I will sign you all out and ask you to sign up with your identification cards. And before the number of entries settles, I'll read more apologies. He apologizes to Dufek Aleš from 15 to 16 o'clock for family reasons, Dvořák Jaroslav - the whole meeting day for health reasons, Jakub Janda from 15 to 17 o'clock - for work reasons, Kohajda Michael - the whole meeting day, working reasons. I think the number of entries has stabilized. So I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the proposal made by President Benda? I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? In the vote number 85, 155 Members and Members, for 151, against no one. The motion was accepted. We will therefore act and vote after 14 o'clock before discussing this House's press. Now, apologies. Kohajda Michael apologizes for the whole day - working reasons, Kott Josef from 16 to 18 hours - working reasons, Králíček Robert from 15 hours - working reasons, Kubík Jan from 13.30 to 15 working reasons, Taťána Taťána from 15 hours - no reason given, Mašek Jiří the whole day - working reasons, Michálek Jakub from 10.45 to 12.30 and from 10.45 to 12.30, here I have this apology - for personal reasons, Okamura Tomio until 10.30 - working reasons, Richter Jan the whole day - working reasons, Vojtko Viktor from 16 hours - family reasons. And from the members of the government, Minister Baxa apologizes from 12.45 to 13.30 for work reasons. We've exhausted all logged in from the debate. Do I ask if anyone else is reporting for the debate? This is not the case, so I am ending the debate. I wonder if there's an interest in final words? The Minister as a plaintiff? He's not interested. The rapporteur? Not either. I wonder if the Member, as rapporteur of the Economic Committee, is still interested in the final word? He doesn't. Mr. Kaňkovský? It doesn't either. We will therefore now proceed to the vote on the amendments. I ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee to introduce us to the voting procedure, then to present individual amendments and to give an opinion on them before the vote. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u42	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, let me introduce you to the third reading procedure for the Labour Code, as approved by the Social Policy Guarantee Committee. A motion to dismiss the law has not been filed. Under paragraph 1, we will vote on legislative technical amendments or amendments under Section 95 of the Rules of Procedure, which have been tabled by Mrs Babišová. Then we will vote on Amendment A1 and A2. These are the amendments of the Economic Committee. The third to come is the amendment under the letter E by Mr Berki. The fourth vote should be made on the parliamentary proposal under the letter J of Mr Brázdil. Then, in point 5, we shall return to the amendments of the Economic Committee under the letters A3 and A4. As a sixth, we will vote on amendments F1 to F4, which, if adopted, will be an unvoted amendment A5 to the Economic Committee. If these amendments are not adopted, we will vote on Amendment A5 to the Economic Committee. We will vote as the eighth amendment under letter B of Mr Havel. Then the amendment under letter C by Mr Kaňkovský. Amendment D to Mrs Šafránková. As the eleventh item, we will vote on Mr Adamec's F5 amendment. We would vote as the twelfth amendment under the letter G of Mr Hájek. As the thirteenth amendment under the letter H by Mr Králíček. Fourteenth under the letter I of Mrs Jílková. And as the 15th point, we would vote on the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u43	Thank you, rapporteur. We will therefore put to the vote on the proposal for this procedure, and I will also ask you to calm down. Thank you. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the procedure proposal, as presented? Who's against it? In voting number 86, 166 Members and Members, for 159, against none. The motion was accepted. And now I'd like you to take us through the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u44	We would therefore be the first to vote in favour of the amendment of the effectiveness presented by Mrs Babišová pursuant to Section 95, namely the amendment of effectiveness so that this law would be effective on the first day of the second calendar month. So the effectiveness of this law is postponed by a month.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u45	Thank you. I'm opening the vote... [[Objection.]] Sorry, sorry. I declare this vote confusing. I'm begging your opinion. The plaintiff? [[Disagreeable.]] The rapporteur? [[Also disagreeable.]] Yes. We can therefore now put the vote to the vote. Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? In the vote number 88, 166 Members and Members voted in favour of 71, against 89. The motion was denied. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u46	Thank you. We would now vote on two amendments from the Economic Committee under the letters A1 and A2. These address the issue of trade union pluralism with the employer and the need to introduce a mechanism to unlock the stalemate situation in collective bargaining. The opinion of the Committee was not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u47	The plaintiff's position? [[Disagreeable.]] Thank you. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 89, 166 Members and Members voted in favour of 2, against 117. The motion was denied. Please, rapporteur, continue. [[Big noise in the hall.]] Please keep it down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u48	We are now voting on the amendment under the letter E by Mr Berki, who is tabled in the sense that he maintains the principle of working on a call, namely that the employer and the employee can agree that working hours do not have to be scheduled at all. The position of the guarantee committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u49	The plaintiff? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 90, 166 Members and Members voted in favour of 5, versus 122. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u50	We will now vote on Mr Brázdil's amendment under letter J, which complements the economic committee's amendment to the fact that the longest possible exchange will be 24 hours, subject to the conditions for setting breaks at work. The position of the guarantee committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u51	The plaintiff's position? [[Disagreeable.]] Thank you. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 91, 166 Members and Members voted in favour of 21, against 92. The motion was denied. Please, rapporteur, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u52	We continue with the amendments of the Economic Committee under the letters A3 and A4 which introduce predictable and unpredictable labour regimes and the associated allocation of working time. The position of the guarantee committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u53	The plaintiff's position? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 92, 167 Members and Members voted in favour of 9, against 72. The motion was denied. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u54	Amendments F1 to F4 to Mr Adamec - these address the issue of continuous daily rest and continuous rest during the week in accordance with the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Here is the opinion of the committee recommending.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u55	The plaintiff's position? [[Neutral.]] Thank you. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 93, 167 Members and Members voted in favour of 161, versus 3. The motion was accepted. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u56	Since we have adopted these amendments, then it has become an unvoted amendment A5 which I will skip to, and we come to Amendment B of Mr Havel, which introduces an exclusion from the right to leave for workers working on the basis of an agreement to carry out work for only one employer. Here is the opinion of the guarantee committee not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u57	The plaintiff's position? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 94, 167 Members and Members voted in favour of 15, against 104. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u58	We are getting to the amendment under letter C of Mr Kaňkovský, which is re-established by the Institute of further agreed overtime work in the health sector. The Committee's opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u59	The plaintiff's position? [[Neutral.]] Thank you. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 95, 166 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 146, against none. The motion was accepted. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u60	We are getting to the amendment under letter D by Mrs Šafránková, according to which it would be possible to agree with the pregnant overtime worker. The position of the guarantee committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u61	The plaintiff's position? [[Disagreeable.]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 96, 167 Members and Members voted in favour of 13, against 82. The motion was denied. Colleagues and colleagues, I'd like to ask you for some peace. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u62	Another is the amendment under the letter F5 of Mr Adamec, which corrects the unequal approach to the remuneration of civil servants and employees in employment for the performance of the member's duties in the management or control bodies of legal persons. The position of the guarantee committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u63	The plaintiff's position? [[Neutral.]] Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 97, 168 Members of Parliament signed up, for 123, versus 6. The motion was accepted. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u64	The amendment referred to in point G of Mr Hájek regulates the Civil Service Act and allows participation in so-called re-competitive tenders for all management of service offices who have worked in their service posts for a long time, with the exception of the provision of education. On this amendment, the Guarantee Committee adopted an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u65	The plaintiff's position? [[Neutral.]] Thank you. Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 98, 168 Members and Members voted in favour of 106, versus 52. The motion was accepted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u66	We are getting to the amendment under the letter H by Mr Králíček, who proposes the exclusion of salary and salary scales from the range of qualified forms of service. Here is the unadvisable opinion of the guarantee committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u67	The plaintiff's position? [[Disagreeable.]] Thank you. Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 99, 168 Members and Members of Parliament voted in favour of 75, against 89. The motion was denied. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u68	The last amendment under point I is my amendment proposing, in order to increase legal certainty for the parties to the employment relationship, to state the rule of possibility of repeatedly applying for parental leave to the Labour Code. The Committee's opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u69	The plaintiff's position? [[Neutral.]] Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 100, registered by 168 Members and Members, for 107. The motion was accepted. I ask the rapporteur whether all the proposals have been voted on?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u70	We have exhausted all the amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u71	Yes. We have yet to vote, please, Mrs Ožanová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u72	Thank you. Madam President. I have a full vote on Mrs Babišová's proposal that we should probably repeat it. I voted correctly, but the rapporteur expressed some opinion here. I asked my colleagues, but the committee didn't discuss it because the proposal fell to plenary. So here, the rapporteur is only supposed to speak for the committee and express her personal opinion. So I would recommend that you repeat the vote on the deadline, because I assume that you like everything to be okay under the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u73	Yes, you're right. The rapporteur, in response to my question - for which, of course, I apologise to the rapporteur for having led her to this - expressed her opinion, which she did not, because this proposal was not discussed in committee. So in this case... Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u74	I am so sorry, Mrs Ožanová, I think that the objection was to be raised at that moment and we cannot go back to voting 3, 4, 5 just because there was some information that was inaccurate. That's what we're really putting in place here is a precedent that's completely unthinkable. I have been standing here a few times protesting the rapporteur's personal opinion, but it must be said at that moment and the subsequent decision of this House cannot be called into question by the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u75	Mrs. Ožanová, I'm sorry, but if you're making a proposal... Are you objecting? Objection is given in case you voted somehow and you have a different result at the junk. You didn't object, okay. [[Ambassador Ožanová requests a performance.]] But you don't have priority rights. Friends, please nicely, I apologize for the mistake that may have affected you, but it is true that we would have to return to all the votes, if you were all affected... Consider whether this is really necessary. Madam President Schillerová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u76	Thank you for the floor. So I'm here now from my colleagues, because I'm the first Member here, and I'm getting experience from them, that it happened in the last parliamentary term, that there was even a pause that Mr Bauer took here, and then he came back to the vote x. So, I mean, if my colleague feels like she's feeling like she's more affected by those colleagues, then maybe one vote won't kill us. It's 14 o'clock, 13 minutes. We just reached out anyway. We all agreed to it. I would suggest that this be repeated, that it be said again that it was a change of effectiveness, for what reason and that it was actually read only now, therefore there was no opinion of the committee. I don't think it's against anything. Everyone did it once, so I was instructed. Then let's do it again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u77	Minister Stanjura with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u78	So I think we're supposed to find a solution. The solution isn't to say anything again. In my opinion, the Rules of Procedure presume a solution. With this vote, we have adopted a resolution, the resolution may be called into question by someone who voted in favour when they question it, if that is called into question, the vote will be repeated. I really don't think we can say anytime, so we'll go back and repeat again. I think there is such an institute in the Rules of Procedure. So please, someone who voted in favour and wants it to be repeated in order to question the vote. We will support this and we will follow the Rules of Procedure, but we really cannot just say, we will vote again on the same thing. [[A voice from a crowd in front of the pitch.]] Yeah, like that, it wasn't accepted, so it can't be done, so it's not a rehab, I'm sorry. I'm gonna find... Then I must declare it...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u79	Well, I'd like to make the following decision, if you don't mind. I would declare this vote misguided. I'm afraid I don't know the number, if anyone can tell me which number... Yes, I know what it was like to vote, it was the first vote on legislative technical adjustments, but I don't know the vote number, so if you just give me a second... [[The noise in the hall.]] Please have a moment of patience, we are looking at the order of the vote. [[The next two minutes are waiting for information on the number of the contested vote.]] Wait a minute. We have two suggestions from you so far, one is 88, the minister says 85. I would have waited for the staff of the Organizing Committee to tell us not to vote on something else. [[the right department]] [[Short break.]] So we've already agreed that it's the 88 vote. I therefore declare him misguided, and we shall repeat this vote. [[14.20 hours]] So we're going to vote. Once again, I have declared the vote number 88 confusing and we will therefore repeat this vote. These are legislative technical amendments, as Mrs Babišová proposed. Yes, now the plaintiff's position? [[Disagreeable.]] Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 101, 167 Members and Members voted in favour of 65, against 90. The motion was denied. So we can now say that all the proposals have been voted on, and we will proceed to the vote on the whole proposal as a whole. I shall make a motion for a resolution. In the meantime, I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby. "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 262/2006 Coll., Labour Code, as amended, and some other laws, according to Parliament's press 423, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 102, 165 Members and Members of Parliament signed in for 145, versus 1. The proposal has been adopted, and I am stating that the bill has been approved. I'll read the apologies. He apologizes to Maříková Karla from 12.45 to 13.45 for work reasons and Pavel Staněk from 15 hours for family reasons. And Mrs Maříková for work reasons. According to the agreement, after the vote, I am interrupting this meeting within 15 hours, when our afternoon negotiations will continue. Let me just remind you that an organizational committee will meet after the meeting this morning.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-28-ps2021-070-02-002-103.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the afternoon meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. We will now address the interrupted paragraph 98, House press 462, the agreement of the Czech Republic and the USA in the field of defence, the treaty, the first reading. So I'm opening the interrupted point, which is
