ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-02-ps2021-065-07-008-071.u1	71. Members of Josef Bernard, Markéta Pekarová Adamová, Olga Richterová, Martin Baxa and Jana Pastuchová's proposal to issue a law amending Act No. 89/2012 Sb., Civil Code, as amended, and other related laws /house print 241/ - first reading The point has been interrupted by 1. 6. 2023 in the general debate. Now, I don't know if anyone was interrupted directly in the debate, but at this point... Mrs Válková was interrupted during the factual, virtually, and I remember now, Mrs Válková had a factual point which she made. [[12.30 hours]] We will therefore return to the general debate to which Mr Munzar Vojtěch, who is, however, excused, is, at this time, the first Mr Munzar Vojtěch, who is, so Mrs Jana Bačíková - is not here either, Mrs Ochodnická Martina. Let me remind you that the Government's position has been delivered to you as House press 141/1. And it is okay that Mr Bernard and Mr Dufek have taken the position at the rapporteur's table. We will continue the adjourned debate. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-02-ps2021-065-07-008-071.u2	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, Minister - I'm sorry, I haven't seen - I rarely have the need to comment on a microphone in any way. As a former mayor, I still can't shake the sense of futility and some sort of game. It seems to me that we are little personal, little effective, little thinking that we should primarily be role models. Today, however, I decided to speak precisely because the proposed amendment is much more personal and inner than anything we have discussed so far. I agree with my colleague, my dear and esteemed colleague Karel Haas, who said yesterday that nothing more important was probably discussed here since the beginning of the parliamentary term. I've been watching it for years, I mean, discussing marriage for everyone. I've seen all the debates I've had so far and heard through my computer screen when I was sitting in my office or at home. They were often disgusting, they were demoting, they were judgmental, and they were labeling. I have often been ashamed of the Members whom I have voted and who I have chosen because, although I respect their opinion and opinion of any of you, I condemn where they have been driven and often provoked in past debates. Therefore, in my contribution I would like to thank and send a message to our entire company and to all those who are watching us today and yesterday and watching in past posts, because I think we have won. We have all won because the debate that has been held so far has been very respectful, through decent, often very personal, seeking compromises and solutions or at least proposing, and that is the most important. At this point, I can say that I am proud, perhaps for the first time in that year and a half since I am here, that I am part of this House, and thank you to all of you who will support the move to second reading, because I believe that for the first time and this time, we can succeed in debating, seeking solutions and not attacking each other and attacking those who have not chosen the situation in which they are. And one more big thank you, and this time through personal, to all those who have stepped out of their comfort zone and entrusted us with their personal or close stories, because I think that is one of the fundamental reasons why the debate and discussion that is going on here has kept itself in the standards of decent behavior, in the standard of how we would like and should debate with each other much more often. Thank you all, and I very much appreciate the way things have been going so far, and I hope that we can continue to do this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-02-ps2021-065-07-008-071.u3	Mr Salvetr will continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-02-ps2021-065-07-008-071.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies, gentlemen, I'm gonna stick to the calm plain, and I don't want to stir up a bit of a fighting mood here, as we've seen her two days ago. I listened very carefully to the proponents of this standard, and if I were to use the words of our former Supreme Representative, I would say that just - a few dots - does not change my mind. And then what was said here from the mouth of Vice-President Richterová and Minister Rakušan, who stressed: let us look for a compromise in the debate and get to something. I would like to remind or mention the state of society, our society, which is here. He is or was sometimes portrayed in those posts as very hostile to some groups of people, but he is not! This company has been very liberal for many years and I almost didn't understand why we mentioned it. At least when we meet on the street, after all, in professional lives, in normal lives, no one is labeled anything. Where, perhaps, a problem - or perhaps not, but certainly - is needed on certain legal issues and in the position of identical sex couples. But the fact that someone is otherwise oriented, simply in our society, Czech society, is not labeled. For a long time, I was not sure about the relationship and the assessment of this matter about whether children should be entrusted to the same sex couples. I had a really big problem with this, perhaps even influenced by my teaching profession, where very often, especially a few years ago, it was mentioned that it was important for children to see both male and female patterns. And what we're going to say to each other is that our schools are just feminized, and for every teacher who came and could bring a different view of the world, we were grateful if he managed to get it into our schoolroom, and he was a good catalyst. I must say that my view began to change some ten, fifteen years ago, when I attended one of the dozens of ski and water courses, then from the Higher Brod. Two Holanďan arrived on a tour that I led along the Vltava River and had two small children, a ten - year - old boy, a three - year - old girl. Wonderful, there was an upheaval at the camp, they were two typical Holanďan, and those kids were just black. It was a mystery to me, I asked where they came from. I've had this boy on the hook all week, they've been going with that little girl of theirs, and it's been an absolutely incredible relationship between them. They took that little girl the day she was one year old, and they went to Los Angeles to get her. The boy was taken a little older. And I started to wonder a little bit if this is even possible or if it's some kind of delusion, but after a year in the same term, I got to the same place and they were there again. And it was already a very powerful moment, that even after a year, nothing happened in their family that would have a negative impact on the children, and they worked very well with them. Before the children there was some time, let's say until the age of 18 that they would spend in children's homes, and for the first time I began to wonder whether it was better if the child was living in a large child's home - and it is certainly also for many of them to be saved - or if he was living in a family. And at this point, that look of mine was quite wobbly, the traditional view I had until then. [[12.40 hours]] However, what bothers me about discussing this issue is the enormous level of aggression that has been created and created around it. It is unbelievable - I think some of you have also said this - that it will suddenly start coming to your email: How dare you not vote for the program at all? How come you didn't vote for the standard? And I can't really hear things about someone making second-class citizens around here. That just doesn't belong here, and it doesn't belong here either - and I'm going to mention this - the performance that we witnessed here, through you, from Mr. Exner on the East-West labeling. The performance was just purely eastern, but I think we can get over it very easily. I think we're all capable of finding a certain consensus, and we shouldn't let that go. I see a consensus in the fact that we should, together, correct legislation so that one of these couples, if a second misfortune occurs, did not face the problem of building property together, that he could not learn information about his health and other problems that might be associated with it. That's what I think is our definite task, and I'm assuming we can definitely find a match on this one. But the way I started, and I said about changing my mind, it doesn't mean changing my mind, it doesn't mean making cocktails on the other hand, or standing on my head. And that's why, please, let's look for a match on that term. It's probably the last thing, and I'm not willing to vote for it personally. I think that Western society also lives on some traditional roots that we shouldn't neglect, and marriage is just a man and a woman. And since the concept of a registered partnership, I confess, is too administrative and technical and I don't like it, let's look for a match on another, perhaps more friendly statement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-02-ps2021-065-07-008-071.u5	Thank you. Mr. Vojtko will be next. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-02-ps2021-065-07-008-071.u6	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, allow me to join the support of marriage for the same sex couples. During the discussion, there were a number of strong stories that showed what it means practically and how the settlement of rights can increase the quality of life of citizens of this country, because, of course, people with homosexual orientation are full citizens of this country. I have also noted a number of arguments here with reference to tradition. I appreciate the tradition and the value of it. But our own history also shows us how traditions change over time. We can look at voting rights for women, but we could find a lot of other examples in property rights or punishments. We do not have the death penalty, for example, which previously was also considered a traditional and normal thing. Although I am not a lawyer, I think it is appropriate to also refer to one of the fundamental principles of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, one of our basic constitutional regulations. In Title 1, point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 says: "Basic rights and freedoms are guaranteed to all irrespective of sex, race, skin color, language, faith and religion, political or other thinking, national or social origin, belonging to a national or ethnic minority, property, family or other position. " Although this provision does not, of course, directly relate to marriage for the same sex couples, it can be understood in my opinion and in general as a value definition and I dare say that I personally - and I think that many of us - will certainly consider it one of the pillars of our culture, country and democracy. It is therefore a perfectly understandable expectation that this will be applied appropriately in all major areas of justice and life. That is why I see the equalisation of rights for the same sex couples as an important topic fulfilling this principle, and our political debate should lead to how we can achieve this as best we can, including the duties involved, because of course this is not just about law, but also about the related obligations. I think that international comparisons can also be an inspiration in this cultural and value anchor. A clear trend in countries that are culturally close to us, or may even be our role model, is marriage even for the same sex couples. Over the past ten years, these countries have grown significantly and I have not seen them fulfilling any catastrophic scenarios. They just changed, and I believe for the better. Change is just life. Let me list in alphabetical order all 34 countries that have undergone a similar change. They are Andorra, Argentina, Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Denmark, Ecuador, Finland, France, Chile, Ireland, Iceland, South Africa, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Luxembourg, Malta, Mexico, Germany, Netherlands, Norway, New Zealand, Portugal, Austria, Slovenia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Taiwan, Uruguay, USA and United Kingdom. And please take a picture of whether we want to be one of these countries. I like data and numbers, and there's always one argument here that I've found specific numbers and data on. This is the absence of a model of the second sex in the family. I don't want to downplay it, and I'm sure it's a big challenge for the families involved if they only have one parent or if they have parents who have the same sex. However, the data of the Czech Statistical Office shows that incomplete families are already 14 percent with us, which means that about 430,000 families in this country have only one parent and the other one is missing. That doesn't mean this problem doesn't have a solution. We have a lot of families here who can sort it out just by having representatives of the next sex in the wider family. And we can't assume that marriage for identical sex couples, or families where parents have the same sex, will completely avoid this. After all, they also have other relatives, and these patterns can replace them quite well, I think, in a different way. Finally, I would also like to point out that the decision-making that awaits us will, above all, affect the future and the young generation. Therefore, let us also take into account the attitudes of young people who are very positive about the same sex marriage, and let us approach a society that is tolerant and equal in its rights, but also in obligations for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-02-ps2021-065-07-008-071.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Feranec will then appear, Mr Nacher will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-02-ps2021-065-07-008-071.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to say a few words about this topic. I'll explain the first thing. I voted to put that item on the agenda. Of course, I voted in favour because a) it's been here for a long time - if it's the sixth year, I don't remember exactly, b) at least it's perceived as a social problem that needs to be addressed. I respect that, which is why I voted, but I also voted in favour of the so-called constitutional protection of marriage, because, as has already been said here, I see it as two sides of one coin. And even people who think they need to be protected constitutionally have the right to speak up have the right to express their opinion. It's gonna turn into some kind of.... [[unintelligible]] Just a brief explanation. [[12.50 hours]] It has already fallen, the essence of the law is mainly a change in the Civil Code, in particular a paragraph that defines marriage, plus some other paragraphs of the Civil Code and others - I think there are five laws, about pension insurance, about population records, about matrices, names, surnames, registered partnerships and specific health services. I have two groups of reservations about this law. Let's say the first reservation is technical. By the way, when the government adopted the resolution, it took a neutral - I understand it is a political decision, it is neutral, but it has been brought to the attention of certain technical shortcomings of this law or of this proposal. Yeah, I guess they're solvable as part of a second reading. However, one thing: lawyers probably know the term ASPI - an automated system of legal information, we all have it at our disposal - and when I entered it into the ASPI, the concept of marriage, and I looked at how many effective legislation is being dealt with, about 366, of it was about a hundred laws. I'm not quite sure the plaintiffs caught every change. Of course, it is a very demanding job, but I would rather see it - a change that changes our legal order in such a fundamental way - to a government proposal with all the comments and so on, but it has happened. So the first thing, I'm sure these are technical doubts about the completeness, the accuracy of the law. But then there's the factual side, and then there's the factual side -- if I have to express my point of view on this matter in a nutshell, I'm undoubtedly in favour of having the same sex couples' rights straightened out in some way. Thanks to the translators for processing the difference table, it is very interesting - it doesn't seem to affect all areas, but it is really very interesting and I will agree with a lot of things, certainly including the so-called reconciliation, including information on health, property and so on, so I'm sure it is. But I think that the way to ensure more rights is to address the content - to deal with individual laws where, for some reason, the rights are not the same, to address the content. I'm afraid we're a little bit in shape, and I'm not blaming anyone, but it seems to me that even passionate supporters - we're getting those emails - are either going the way or nothing. I'm not sure if it's the right procedure or not for me. So on the one hand, I say yes, I'm in favour of more rights, but let's solve the content. On the other hand, I am and will remain in the position that marriage is a special institute or such important, so important that it deserves some protection. And I call it short, it's supposed to be the millimeter difference between marriage and - now I don't want to say - partnership, registered partnership, it doesn't matter, and why should it stay? Well, because that's what our company's built on. Of course, we can argue about how big the millimeter should be, as it was in the Middle Ages, was the Prague elbow and the Olomouc elbow and I don't know what it is, everyone can have a slightly different view of it, but I am convinced that it should remain, for many good reasons. I repeat again, that's what our civilization is built on. And maybe there will be a time when the family will form differently. Do I remember - or do you remember - the Polish film Sexmis, where children were made in some other way? This may be the time, but I'm convinced it didn't happen today, at least in the perception of society. Each society, each generation, can take some percentage, some size changes to society. I'm afraid, and now I speak for myself and I think my education, my experience, my view of the world is too great. And I'm not ruling out that it's going to happen. So I would really rather we deal with the content of this law, the specific rights here, and I understand that there will be a big debate, for example, about adoption, now I don't mean about adoption, but about adoption, and there will be different opinions, and I would like to hear opinions from experts, psychologists and so on. And this, in my opinion, is a way to straighten these rights. So in conclusion, I will not support this bill, as it is proposed, and I repeat it again, my opinion is that the millimeter difference between marriage and another kind of partnership should remain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-02-ps2021-065-07-008-071.u9	Thank you. Mr Nacher will now appear. Please, you have the floor. Before you start, I will make one apology: Mrs. Mračková Vildumetzová Jana has been apologizing since 12.45 hours for family reasons. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-02-ps2021-065-07-008-071.u10	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a pretty clear, unchanging, consistent opinion about this, but I'll allow myself to make a few comments, maybe even offer another point of view. First of all, I'm a little sorry that there's so little of us in the room here, because, as I say, this is one of the few things where even the argument, and the way we're doing it, and the way we say it, and the way some people label it, we can influence those who don't have a strong opinion about it. The way I see it, a third here is definitely against not supporting it, a third is for, a third is for, and it depends on how the debate goes, how the debate will be cultivated, what the arguments will be. Unlike other laws, like government standards that... Even though you can speak here like Jan Zlatoústý Mouthy, it doesn't matter that you do, because the coalition will support it anyway, and the opposition has a minority. In this case, I think we can somehow enrich each other and convince each other, and yet we're sitting here now about thirty-five or how many. Well, that's the first point. [[13.00 hours]] Second, I've already started, that's the labeling. Notice how everyone - or most of them, whether I'm more precise - who doesn't support it here speaks very carefully, as if they are treading so that they don't accidentally get a lens in quotes on social networks. On the other hand, Mr Exner will come out here and say that whoever is in favour is a russophile. [[Against?]] That's the Bear Service for me, that's what was said here. I hope that the Member will apologize by the end of his first reading for just not being possible, because it is a precedent to label like this. At that point in any other law, we're gonna talk about the package and all that, somebody else is gonna come out here and say, "Who won't support the package, so is a fan of Russia?" Is this how we're gonna deal with this place and create some donkey bridges about the direction of the Czech Republic, indebtion, etc.? No, I don't think he belongs here at all. I'd call it tolerance of the intolerant. Here you are constantly - that's a very common word, the tolerance - talking about it, but basically you're labeling it here, and in this way you're dehonesting, disqualifying someone who has a different opinion. The concept of marriage for everyone: I said when we first discussed it three years ago, that's an inaccurate concept. Now that we're all so prickly about the terms and symbols, it's a marriage for the same sex couples, let's use it this way. It's not for everyone, it's not everyone. If it were all of them, it would also concern people who are in some other relationship with each other, like relatives and so on, when they are all of them - we are all of them. This only applies to a certain part, so at least use it exactly, because then it's like something's hidden under it. Third point - opinion polls. There's a lot of argument, and I get those email and social media questions that most of the population agree. Okay, it's some kind of opinion poll, I'm not questioning it, but how come all of a sudden it's being argued here? I feel like yesterday - or here I was actually with a fellow budget committee chairman on TV, and he, when we were on CNN Prima News, said that most of them would be for tax cuts, if that's what the colleague remembers. So are we going to follow the polls? So in that case, let's lower taxes in this situation, because certainly most, you said, would be in favour of tax reductions. But it's not possible to take it selectively that if we can use it, we'll take the polls as an argument, and if we don't like it, we won't use the polls. I have often heard here in the campaign that the ANO movement follows the polls and therefore makes populist policies. So I want to ask those who said that if they're going to apply it to themselves at the time. As you can see, I'm not applying it to you, but I'm just pointing out here that there's a public opinion poll. And now for the contents. I've been in touch with the activists since the beginning, whether it was Adéla Horáková, the Wark Honor and all that, he said, and my opinion is the same: equal rights, not to name it by marriage. I had a proposal prepared, which was the correlation table that was in the explanatory statement, so it equals it so that all the rights would level out -- all of them. If I recall correctly, it reached the global into six laws, in some details for maybe a few dozen more. So we're gonna straighten out the rights. When I was at a few lectures at Prague Pride in Prague, those people, and that surprised me terribly when I said it in the public debate, of course they fought for marriage for the same sex couples, but then in private they told me that they were primarily about equalizing rights. I always asked them why they didn't say it loudly on the microphone, and they said they'd hit the community after that. That's my real experience. I have noticed that he is preparing here - perhaps, I do not know - some amendment, so it is possible that after three years we will get back to what I said here three years ago. And I have a feeling that Milan Feranec said that or even someone before, I don't know if Karel Haas, that here should be looking at what these people want, and maybe going the way maybe gradual than going the strategy of everything or nothing. I came across the design so far that I pulled it down, put it in a drawer, in a vault, and I didn't pull it out anymore. Helena Válková saw him, the design. That means we'll see what happens here. This also brings me to the fact that I am glad that this debate has been conducted, led and led and that it will be detailed. And that there are a lot of people in our club who don't support it, so they encouraged us to put it on the program. Because even that - when I was dealing with those activists back then, I remember it very well that they said: It is always better to discuss it and to be clear where it ends than to have it tucked in somewhere in a drawer and say: After the election, until after the summer, until something, when the budget is approved, and actually keep them in some false hope that the conditions will change to the extent that they will pass or fail. That seems fair to me, to discuss it now, to make a decision and to take a stand. Get on with it! That's why I'm saying I'm sorry there aren't more people in this room. One last comment: I also evaluate it from a certain context of the time when everything really relativizes here today, and I really hate the relativization of everything. And again, it's a bear service for this thing. I was saying that, for example, Adéla Horáková, she certainly remembers it well, the relativization and the fact that basically today the number of genders is being questioned, the man, the woman, some complain that they don't want to have a birth number, because you can tell the sex from it. Now there's gonna be different changes here, different forms are changing - for everyone, not for those involved. That's okay, we live in the singlest time, and yet some feel that we don't and that it is precisely because people are to change the rules and conditions for everyone. So we just have to put it in some context of the time that actually relativizes everything today. So I'm glad we're discussing this, I assume it's going to go through the second reading. I think that would be okay, because there is an opportunity to read the amendments, and so it will show how it will evolve. And in advance, fair and square, if it's a third reading, I won't support it in this form. I've been saying this consistently from the start, I'm not changing my mind either from the polls or from the polls. So far, no other argument has convinced me to change my mind and my opinion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-02-ps2021-065-07-008-071.u11	Thank you. Mrs Potůčková will now appear, Mrs Fialová will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-02-ps2021-065-07-008-071.u12	Thank you. Mr President, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. Marriage for the same sex couples is enshrined in the legal order, as has already been said here, many countries, and this has really been repeated countless times. These include significantly Catholic states such as Spain, Portugal, but also Colombia, Brazil and, of course, Ireland. Ireland, where, according to the 2022 censor, 69 percent report to the Catholic Church. So in Ireland, they decided to declare a referendum on a similar law, whether the Ir want marriage for all, or say for the same sex couples, or not, and 62 percent of the population was in favour and the law was passed. Statistics from the Czech Republic, media research from 2019, clearly shows that 67 percent of the population support this marriage. Today, after four years, this support is at 71 percent and, as you can see, the support is growing. And here I am, therefore, using - here I am addressing Mr Nacher, through Mr President - I, too, use the arguments of public opinion and statistics, but I believe that these statistics are not political matters, that this is a matter of value. So I think it's a little different - it's not about taxes, it's a little bit different. But, of course, our opinions may differ in that regard. [[13.10 hours]] The same percentage of the population in the Czech Republic, which supports wedlock for all - I will use this term - is atheistic, and so while they have decided in Ireland, despite the views of the head of the Catholic Church, which certainly does not cheer for the same-sex unions, we in atheistic Bohemia are still unable to decide despite such enormous support in society. After all, some churches, such as the Evangelical Church of the Czech Brethren, have already adopted a groundbreaking decision on their last synod this year with the possibility of blessing the union of same-sex persons. And here I would very much like to turn with respect and humility to some of the esteemed ODS colleagues, because the math is simply relentless, even though there are very few of you sitting here, of course. And even your voices, at least some of you, will or would be needed for this proposal to go through the next reading. The basic principles of your party, for which voters give you their vote, are budgetary responsibility, responsibility for your own life and more freedom instead of constant controls. This amendment to the Civil Code also brings responsibility, of course, because marriage is a legal treaty that brings not only rights and freedoms but also obligations and obligations. And as far as the budget is concerned, I will be very, very icy and very pragmatic here. The adopted child - and yes, the same sex couple - is not only usually happier, but it costs much less money than any constitutional education. As far as the quotation marks are concerned, the US Republicans have tried to enforce the Marriage Protection Amendment since 2002, it was the last time in 2013 and 2015, and this law has never even entered the committees. And this, please, in a far more conservative, federally meant by the United States than the Czech Republic. Thus, as regards the controversial name of the marriage, which is also widely debated here, is a permanent subject of dispute, even in Ireland, the name of the marriage remains. In France, it is a mariage, in Spain a matrimony made of Latin matrimony, composed of the word mater and the sufix monium, or act and act. It can be seen that history has also clearly seen that marriage is primarily a burden for the mother. Fortunately, times have moved on in many ways. But the name matrimony remains the same. The fact that word meanings change over time and what we subject under them is a common ethymological phenomenon, which would certainly be confirmed by every linguist. So I really don't see the ethymological problem here alone, not even in the concept of the Czech name of marriage. But I completely understand that this may be the subject of further negotiations and compromises. So I, too, add to the plea of my colleagues, although I have no personal story here: let us approve a law that supports almost 70 percent of the public across the political spectrum, because it is our duty, above all, to fulfill the will of our constituents, and listen to them. And please, let us put this proposal into the next reading precisely so that this beneficial discussion can continue for all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-02-ps2021-065-07-008-071.u13	Your performance brought up two factual points. Mr Dufek will appear first. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-02-ps2021-065-07-008-071.u14	I'd like to respond to one thing. I really wouldn't want to bring religion into this discussion. I was already given it to me yesterday in some kind of TV debate. I swear to you, I myself decide primarily as a citizen of this country, a lawyer with 25 years of practice and a father of three children, this has nothing to do with religion. I see it as a duel of reason, this awkward maybe, dry and emotional.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-02-ps2021-065-07-008-071.u15	The next one, with a factual remark, will be made by Mr Vomáčka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-02-ps2021-065-07-008-071.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I know it's not like it's worn, and it's not normal, but I'm performing a little bit against the previous speaker, honored colleague Potůčková, and I'm always going to perform like this. Please do not lecture other coalition partners on how to know and how to vote in this plenary and who is voting for us and who is not voting for us. Solve your supporters of the starosta or other Members, but let us speak for ourselves, or for our political party or movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-02-ps2021-065-07-008-071.u17	Another factual point, Mr Feranec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-02-ps2021-065-07-008-071.u18	Thank you, Mr President. I'll just briefly respond to what my colleague said. Potůčková, Mr. Dufek said so. Indeed, it is not a question of religion. So if we don't take much of the morals of religion and so on in that sense, I wouldn't really take it that way. And second point. Well, I can imagine a referendum on that. I can imagine that, because, you know, politicians always say when they don't like some research, they always say, "The best research is elections." I can imagine, and it would really represent some public opinion. That's where we're missing the instrument, the law on the general referendum. Of course, we brought him in, so I hope we can get to him in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-02-ps2021-065-07-008-071.u19	We are going back to the general debate. Mrs. Fialová will perform.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-02-ps2021-065-07-008-071.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I wanted to speak in support of this bill, it is known about me for a long time that I am a supporter of marriage for everyone, and I have no emotional talk prepared. Three years ago, I was here with an emotional speech, where my friend's personal experience was, a description of the situation, but we all know that, and I'd like to release myself from the emotions during the debate. Perhaps I also thank the rapporteur for having a very correct debate here, and it is a question of opening up all the questions that are in favour and against. We are most concerned here about the issue of children or the most controversial issue is children and possible adoptions. Just what I watch from my friends who like the same sex: not everyone wants to have children. Everyone realizes what could happen and so on. But the discussions here are legitimate, and I want to make sure that not everyone runs and wants to apply for adoption right away, but they want to express in some way how they feel about each other. And now my reason for being a long-term supporter of this law or this approach - in my case, these are also the values that Mr Honourable Haas here spoke of. For me, it is the value of freedom and choice, because if any heterosexual person decides to marry, he has the option. If he decides not to have children, he has the option. If he decides not to live on a pile of so-called, then he has the option, but it's still about his choice. But homosexual couples don't have that choice, so for me, the value of choice or the option to choose which path I choose is so high that I completely understand the debate from one side, from the other side, but that's the real reason why I support marriage for all - choice. However, I would like everyone to be open to these arguments, because to be a long-term supporter, I will always listen to colleagues who are on the opposite side of the argument, and I am listening to their arguments. Sometimes I have to admit that I get swayed to think about it, what they're saying, what they're arguing about. But the discussion must be open to both sides, or the opportunity to listen, to both sides. However, I will always come back to my opinion and think that I would like to sort this out and finally, as clear to people who like the same sex as the House of Deputies, and also give peace to people in villages who are otherwise oriented, because public pressure is so great that they want to have peace, they don't want to have an attempt at them, which will always ask questions about them and say: How do you actually have it? Some people don't give a damn, some people want to get married, but they don't have a legislative instrument of choice these days, and we're obliged to hand it over in some way here. [[13.20 hours]] I respect everyone's opinion, I'm not gonna talk anybody out of it, whether it's him or any other way. I respect colleagues who have the opposite opinion and are completely on the other side. But please, let's be open to arguments. I'd like to hear the views of some psychologists here. Or why are we so worried about adopting gay couples? I haven't heard the arguments from the other side yet, why we're so worried about it and why we're not open to talking about it here. Each of us here is really going to say our opinion, our feeling, but I miss the facts a little bit. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-02-ps2021-065-07-008-071.u21	Thank you, Madame. Mrs Bělohlávková will now appear.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-02-ps2021-065-07-008-071.u22	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, through Mr President, I must thank Mrs Fialová, on the one hand, for her cultured speech and, on the other hand, for recording so beautifully to my reply and to my contribution. Maybe she wasn't here last night, so I'm sure that excuses her. I was talking here yesterday, and I'm going to talk about it again, about the children's issue. I think that's my duty. Children are really the central and main point of view for me, through which I look at the issue of marriage of identical sex couples and adoption of children. Yesterday I said that psychologists agree that the impact of this education can be assessed responsibly after two to three generations. I have also mentioned that because we are somewhat late, there are already adults in America who, as children, have experienced this education in the same sex families, and these children really do respond. I can then hand over some names or tips - Robert Oskar Lopez or Britney Kleinová - who speak of these experiences from childhood. I stand by it and insist that every child has the right to his identity and has the right to know his family history and his family history. Why am I stressing this? 'Cause I'm sure you all know babyboxes. We in the Republic are one of the countries of Europe that has the coolest network of babyboxes. I must confess that I really think that the idea is correct, yet the professional society of practical children's doctors for children and the youth of baby boxes takes a very careful or negative view. The reason for this is that children put down here don't actually have an identity, that they don't have a chance to know their biological parents. Maybe it's tough for you, too, because I think it's better for the baby to be put in a babybox without knowing his family history than to end up in a dumpster somewhere. But the statistics are also relentless. Unfortunately, those kids who end up in baby boxes wouldn't kill their moms with a high degree of probability. Regardless of the number of baby-boxes, the tragic endings of killed newborns and infants do not subside. Why do I say that? I'm saying this because the identity of a person is really an important part of his life, and all people need it. Of course, our lives aren't perfect and we all have to deal with a series of traumas in our lives. I know, of course, that a lot of kids grow up with mommy and grandma, I know that there are happy rainbow families, but it's still not an ideal. I think that making these exceptions a general rule would really be a mistake. A model of manhood and womanhood needs every child. I sometimes write about it through e-mails with parents who have a child, mostly abroad. It's my parents who are mad at me for insisting that even their child, who is raised by two men, needs a female role model. I agree that if it can't be mommy, it's really necessary to find that female role model somewhere else, in my grandmother, in my aunt, in my friend, but to say that there's no need for a female role model, it's simply a lie. It's exactly the same as the other way around. Even girls need to experience the role model of a man. Their relationship with their father is often crucial for their future partner life. Often the traumas that carry in them just from bad or no relationship with their father haunt them all their lives. As far as family history goes, you know what? It may seem like such a cliché to some of you, but every medical student knows that when he accepts a patient, the first thing he starts with is a so-called family history. This family history is really very important to us, because it can draw attention to some emerging diseases, informs us of the risk. If the student forgot to take a family history, I guarantee you he wouldn't even take an internal design exam. So kids really need family history, and they need it undistorted. If the child that grows up in the rainbow family of two men, of course, there will come a time when the child will know that there must be his mother somewhere, and she will ask for her. Likewise, if a child grows up in the rainbow family of two mothers, there will come a time when the child will understand that he is not the child of these two women and will ask for his father and will want to know who he is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-02-ps2021-065-07-008-071.u23	Yes, I understand, Madam. I'll ask my colleagues to calm down, or transfer their conversations outside the O.R. Thank you very much, you may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-02-ps2021-065-07-008-071.u24	Thank you, Mr President. I know there's a lot of personal stories going on here, too, and I think that each of us could tell a story, whether we're proponents or opposers of this amendment of the law. But we must realize that we are really standing here as legislators and that wanting to make the laws of this country according to our personal story, only according to what I have experienced or what I would like to bring to my loved ones, seems to me sick. We really must weigh, weigh carefully all for and all against, and we must strive to find a good law for all the inhabitants of this country, not just for those who share a common household with us. [[13.30 hours]] And there was also a very dangerous sentence for me in the galleys. Since her author is not here, I will not name it, but the sentence has been said here that the rule of law of this country must be adapted to the changed society. And you know what, that's wrong. The law doesn't adapt to people, but people have to adapt to the law. We'd have gotten to such a slippery surface that we wouldn't be surprised in a few years. This simply cannot and cannot be the truth. And finally, I'm gonna end up doing what I did yesterday. Once again, I am not in favour of maintaining the registered partnership in the form it was adopted in 2006, and I think it is really appropriate that a lot of things that are not set up fairly in it to change, to level up and to meet many of the demands that the LGBT+ community raises. But on the other hand, I insist, and I repeat again, that the adoption of children is insurmountable to me and I will never raise my hand to a law that would allow them to be equally sexually united. And I also stand by the fact that marriage is a union between a man and a woman, and I do not want that term to spread to any other form of coexistence. Thank you for your attention and for your endurance to those who are still here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-02-ps2021-065-07-008-071.u25	Thank you, Madame. We took turns managing the meeting and one more organizational, with a replacement card number 20, Vice-President Skopeček will vote. As far as the procedure is concerned, there are now factual points. There are five of them and the first with Ms Eva Fialová in fact, then Mr Bernard, Mr Zuna, Mr Balaš and others. Madam, your two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-02-ps2021-065-07-008-071.u26	Thank you so much for the explanation, I was here yesterday, I'd love to take the resources, but I have another question. You say, you talk about patterns and so on. So, where are the role models in families where the single mother is, and there's no man in the long run or the father isn't known at all? Because some mothers then want to have a baby, they have a baby with anyone, and the father is referred to as the unsub. So the biological bonds aren't known either, or the child will never know them in life, and in adoptions, in classic adoptions, you don't know how many times the child's origins, you don't know the history, and so on. If his parents don't want to tell him, they won't know he's adopted either. So let's talk openly about everyone, or about the positives on the other hand that brings children into the rainbow families. Because sometimes around love versus abandoned children somewhere in children's homes like, so it's also, let's consider it both sides and really let's have this discussion seriously on all possible cases that can arise, and not just purposefully, which we can do right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-02-ps2021-065-07-008-071.u27	Thank you for keeping the time, but I will ask you very much to address me through. Mr. Josef Bernard, Mr. Michal Zuna, will be prepared. Okay, two minutes again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-02-ps2021-065-07-008-071.u28	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I, too, want to thank all my colleagues for this, can be said to be 95 percent rational discussion. I like the debate very much, but I'd like to straighten things out here so we can balance things out. It has been said several times, for example, that you are experiencing hate mails, hate donations, by the supporters of this law. I want to assure you that the same is on our side. We have an e-mail site this swamped with opposers like me and my colleagues, and we are Members, Members, and we have to bear it, we have to endure it. I have registered comments on my colleague Mr Exner, I understand them. On the other hand, we did not want to press the debate and we completely silence the first homophobic joke on this House's land during our mandate and we will not continue to spread it, we will not continue to dwell on this matter. And then there are some arguments that need to be told what they are about - three generations that they would be needed. Well, let's just say, how many years would we need? 48 years, because marriage in the form we propose is introduced in Holland sometime in 2000, 2001, take two generations, 48 years. Will we wait 48 years to draft this bill? Of course, we are able to present relevant and foreign studies, which clearly say that children, although raised either in a rainbow family or in a normal heterosexual family, are equally entitled to their development, do not affect their future development. We look forward to presenting these studies, of course, in the expert discussion on committees. [[Time!]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-02-ps2021-065-07-008-071.u29	Thank you. Now, Mr Michal Zuna, with his factual and response to the debate, will speak, then, Mr Vladimír Balaš. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-02-ps2021-065-07-008-071.u30	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I would like to make a factual comment on the output of the Member, by your means, of course. I was very surprised by what was said here, namely that the law should be, or that people should adapt to the law. If I believe that the lawmakers create the law, that is us, elected representatives, and therefore it seems to me like an oxymoron, that it is not actually possible. If we are elected representatives, we are elected by the people, we are creating the legislative framework. And I also wonder what people who lived and lived in communism for 40 years would think of your statement when those people were supposed to adapt to that law, the law set up over the course of those 40 years. We could also talk about the other Republic, the third Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-02-ps2021-065-07-008-071.u31	Thank you for your time and now Mr Vladimír Balaš with a response, then Mr Šimon Heller. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-02-ps2021-065-07-008-071.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to reject the legal philosophy that people should adapt to law and not to the right of people. People are supposed to respect the law, but if we accept the thesis, we live here at a time when they pay an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth. Sometimes it can be changed legislatively, sometimes by dynamic interpretation, it is, of course, possible, and we have the opportunity to change legislation so that we do not discriminate against anyone. And only to the debate that's going on here about how important a harmonious family is. In an ideal world of course, but we do not live in a harmonious world. And it's proven that the most child abuse in their entire families is their biological father. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-02-ps2021-065-07-008-071.u33	Thank you. With another factual remark, Mr Šimon Heller, then Mrs Romana Bělohlávková. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-02-ps2021-065-07-008-071.u34	Madam Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, allow me to sincerely appreciate the debate that is going well and well, because I dare to say that this is a change that is essential to our legal order. Even with far less important things, we can go out into our hair here, and now the debate as I observe it here, and I try to observe it very carefully, so I consider it factual and calm. I really want to thank you all for that. I'd like to react briefly here, here several times the word "right" has been called over the children's question. I would just like to say briefly that I have a few friends in the sense of children - who wanted to have children, wanted to be parents and could not. I'm convinced myself, I'm telling you honestly, as far as parenting is concerned, having children, and I'm saying it as a father of four, a happy father of four, that I see it as a gift of God, not a right. I perceive the law and we can perceive it in a different way. And I don't want to give specific examples here right now, but for me to have kids, to be a parent, to be a father, to be a mother, to be a mother, to be a mother, not in principle, not a right, but a gift from God.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-02-ps2021-065-07-008-071.u35	Thank you and now Mrs Romana Bělohlávková. Mr. Aleš Dufek will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-02-ps2021-065-07-008-071.u36	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I had to write it down to answer everyone. Certainly, by your means, Mrs Fialová, who pointed out that indeed, and that is the reality, that by far not all children in their families, in which they grow up, have a model of both male and female. But I also said that, of course, these situations are, I think, already said on the air that 14 percent of children grow up in this simplified family, or whatever I would call it, and I don't mean it at all pejoratively. But you know what, that's not an ideal, that's what I said. Of course, there are many single moms, and there are fathers who are alone with their children. I'm not saying things like this don't happen. On the contrary, I know families where my father, grandmother, and child are because my mother died. But you know what, these are complicated, difficult, unideal situations of life. But to purposefully allow them to actually make them the norm, that's what I feel sick about. As far as adopted children are concerned, nowadays most adoptive parents tell their children about adoption, and if they are not children postponed, that means children from babyboxes, but we know their family history. Kids who go into adoption...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-02-ps2021-065-07-008-071.u37	Time, Madame. [[- I see.]] You can then log in again. Mr Aleš Dufek will now respond to the debate and prepare Mrs Jana Pastuchová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-02-ps2021-065-07-008-071.u38	I would like to respond to my previous speaker, through you, Madam President, Professor Balaš. You know, of course, theoretically, you're right, but how did the creation of individual rights work out? We have created individual rights for citizens and companies at the expense of this state. And how many axes do we have by the end of May? Too big, isn't it? That, of course, is the result of the fact that for decades of the House meeting here, someone wants to have some kind of right, so we're going to give him the right at the expense of the state, and he's going to sort of pay for it. In the end, I'm not sure how it's gonna turn out in five, seven years with our state in this approach to creating more and more human rights. But here I'm starting to wonder because we're creating a right that we're interfering with other people's rights to individuals' rights. And that, of course, is a kind of red line.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-02-ps2021-065-07-008-071.u39	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mrs Jana Pastuchová. Mrs Bělohlávková will be ready again. Please, even your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-02-ps2021-065-07-008-071.u40	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. By your means, I would respond to a fellow Member, Mr Heller, who said that a child is a gift from God. Well, I'll say without God's help that a gift is for every child's family. I got it from my practice. And when the family, the young family, wants the baby, and it really doesn't work, we have so much medicine here, I look at the docent, that even the family is happy to have the baby. And believe me, I worked for about three years at the fertility clinic at my job, and when that mom or that woman came in and we did - or I didn't, I was anesthesiological - and actually managed to get pregnant, it's a gift to me that the family is happy to have her, they'll be happy, and their praying baby will be happy, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-02-ps2021-065-07-008-071.u41	Thank you for keeping time. And now, for now, the last de facto Mrs Bělohlávková. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-02-ps2021-065-07-008-071.u42	Thank you for the floor. I'll try to speed up. I'll just say that the adopted children have a family history in their documentation with the occurrence of the diseases monitored and the risks associated with them. The doctor has the data regardless of whether or not adoptive parents tell the baby or say it is adopted. So it's just a comparison. After studies that evaluate the state or development of children who grow up in hetero- and homosexual families, these studies, of course, exist, I think they have the most of them from Germany. But these studies are really too short-lived for us to lean on. And the second thing is that today's atmosphere isn't too much of a record of doing studies that could prove anything other than what's desirable. I'll be absolutely specific. I asked for statistics on suicides in a community, and I was told that this cannot be put into a study nowadays, because it would be immediately attacked and it would be accepted very negatively. So to the studies: yes, the studies are short-term, and I'm afraid they're not always completely objective. But that's my point of view. And then just... [[President: Time, Madame.]] Well, I'm done and have a good weekend.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-02-ps2021-065-07-008-071.u43	Thank you, thank you. I have to measure them all the same. And now we are returning to the general debate, where Mrs Nina Nováková is duly signed up and then Mr Aleš Dufek is signed up. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-02-ps2021-065-07-008-071.u44	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we, who are dealing with this issue, are trying to monitor the debate as closely as possible, so allow me to return to what the rapporteur said when this press began to discuss, Mr Dufek, who pointed out that this change, the House Press 241, has a little something. I took the liberty of noticing her when we talked about this about a year ago, and the fact that in Section 29 of the Civil Code, which speaks of gender change, it is so far that if gender change occurs, marriages cease and registered partnerships cease. [[13.50 hours]] Since I assume that those who created this draft amendment to the Civil Code are not bogus and read it after themselves, so I just assume that every word there is, and every word in the law matters, has some meaning. And no matter how much I look at it, I see that when sex changes - that is, if lawmakers assume that marriage can therefore be identical - so when sex changes, registered partnerships disappear, that is, if they are in registered partnerships, and I warn you, a registered partnership by adopting this amendment - that does not mean that all registered partners have to get married right away, that they have to accept the possible institution of marriage - that is, it will take at least some time for registered partnerships and marriages to be heterosexual, marriage to be homosexual, and now, in fact, all registered partners to change sex only the registered partnership, but the marriage remains. So it means, and I know such cases from around me, that one of the heterosexual couple who lives in marriage, and one friend of mine has spent her whole life suffocating that she has a lesbian orientation, and so she decided to go public with it and that she wants to leave the marriage, but she, by changing her marriage in this case, if she were to perfect it - now I don't want to discuss it again, and that's what's going to happen if there is to be an official sex change - so marriage would actually disappear, but according to this amendment, homosexual marriage, which was originally heterosexual. And that's what we could smile about if there were no more legislative standards in the air, and that's a legislative standard that imagines that it would be right - and it's no news, that's what one of the Ombudsmen used to come up with - so that it would actually be enough for a sex change to just rewrite it into a matrix. So you go to the register and you say, "I'm not a man anymore, I'm a woman now, and when this happens, marriage doesn't end according to this novel." Tell me if I'm reading it all wrong. Then there is another thing, and in particular it was said from the mouth of a fellow Member from the club STAN, and it is clear that we are not moving in that binary model of thinking - heterosexually oriented people and homosexually oriented people, in that it is exactly the same, moving in a binary model, or a woman and a man, and there is an attraction, so they are attracted and create a couple. And a man knows he's a man, he doesn't want to stop being a man, the other man doesn't want to stop being a man, and yet he creates a couple. That means heterosexual couples, registered couples, don't leave the binarith behind me at all, and they're in exactly the same boat with us. But here, ladies and gentlemen, x-axis said that...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-02-ps2021-065-07-008-071.u45	Madam, I apologize to you, but there is already a lot of noise. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-02-ps2021-065-07-008-071.u46	What if someone wanted to hear it, through Madam President! It has been said here several times that LGBT, LGBTI+ and this sort of thing are discriminated against by the community, which doesn't in any way affect it, but here is a clear signal that the supporters of this amendment to the Civil Code leave a binary principle that homosexual couples do not abandon. We're all in the same boat with them, we just like it different, someone of the opposite sex, someone of the same sex. But unfortunately, homosexual couples, I'd almost say they're sitting on better activists who are already overestimating much more, more sex. We cannot forget that here we have one proposal, a rewrite of sex only on the matrix, a second proposal, here it is in the lufta again, and this is the Istanbul Convention, the so-called Istanbul Convention, where gender identity is clearly spoken of, and this is not related to the binary concept of gender, because if it were related to it, there might not be a ban on discrimination based on sex, sexual orientation, gender and gender identity in particular in one article. So we're actually quite clearly leaving the model on which biology is still standing, and basically we weren't asking ourselves the question here, my colleague Bělohlávková was talking about raising children and raising children, but she was kind of looking at it from the family's point of view. I, because I'm an educator, have to look at it from the perspective of what we're going to be, what truths, what models of society, what biology, what information in biology we're going to pass on to our children. We already know today, and here it's been repeated several times that the statistics are, so everyone can come up with some numbers. I was in close contact with Professor Vácha years ago - I warn you that it is not Marek Orko Vácha, but it is a physiopathologist from Masaryk University in Brno who watched and watched the effects of so-called gender-sensitive education. And we, because we can't, or it has been revealed here from the talk, from the speeches of all the supporters of the amendment to the Civil Code, that the LGBT community - or the community - is included there, I don't want to say the word community, it's LGBT, it's some sort of self-characterizing people - that we can't ignore that, because it was said here by the supporters of this novel themselves. So I'm asking, and unfortunately we already have some answers, because moms are calling us to do with their children, that they visit the school - and children are learning about it on social networks, on the Internet - and that the school is visiting nonprofit organizations that they promote there, although it is absolutely not in accordance with the framework education programs, so there is no pouvoir to do it, only these schools are just benevolently there these nonprofit organizations are letting, and actually increasing numbers, thereby confirming what they said, as I say, that Professor Vácha told me a few years ago, because it happened in Britain, suddenly increasing the number of children who don't know what their identity is, and besides the fact that these children don't know what their sexual orientation is, or they hesitate, and it seems to them that it's actually fashionable not to be a heterosexual cisgender - a cisgender means that you're satisfied with your sexual orientation, what your body and so on and so on, simply that you're completely in harmony, or here, which is probably is a heterosexual identity, but only one of the same group. [[He's looking towards Mr Vomáčka.]] Colleague, through Madam President, I will explain later. [[Laughter and applause.]] So we have to tell ourselves how we are going to pass this on to children in civil education. On the one hand, there are nonprofit organizations that tell them: Separate the body from the psyche, from sexual orientation and from your gender identity, they are completely separate categories. We're not used to that. [[14.00 hours]] And I'm saying again, we, with homosexuals... with people gay-oriented, we're in the same boat. We think the same way. And now all of a sudden, thanks to gender-sensitive education, which will undoubtedly have to follow, in the area...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-02-ps2021-065-07-008-071.u47	Madame...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-02-ps2021-065-07-008-071.u48	Is it over?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-02-ps2021-065-07-008-071.u49	I apologize for entering, but the hour in which it ends has come true.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-02-ps2021-065-07-008-071.u50	Oh, well, I'll save it for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-02-ps2021-065-07-008-071.u51	And for the record, there are two factual points that remain pending the debate. And since there is no other agreement than that on Fridays ending in this usual way, I am interrupting the 65th meeting by Tuesday, June 13, 2023 until 14:00. And I would remind you that we will meet here on Thursday, June 8, when the 67th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies will begin at 12 o'clock. I wish you all a peaceful rest of the day.
