ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u1	1. Discussion of the proposal to express distrust to the Government of the Czech Republic We are in an adjourned debate in which the following Members have signed up. Mr Radim Fiala will now speak with priority rights. The Member gives up his application. So another registered priority is Mr Michálek. It's not. Then there is the priority right of Vice-President Richterová. He's not present in the hall. The next enrollment is President Markéta Pekarová Adamová. He's not present. And then there is Minister Michal Šalomoun, who is present, and I give him my word. Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce you actually to the activities of our government in the field of legislative activity. Of course, legislative action is one of the tools of government governance that is widely used, and, after all, the frequency of using this instrument is some way to conclude that the government really does not sit with its own hands, as it is sometimes reviled that it does not do anything, that it does not, in principle, do so. In principle, the legislative action can be divided into three areas according to the legislative acts adopted. First, they're laws, then they're government regulations and decrees. And here it is possible to make a certain comparison in principle with the previous government. Of course, the laws are approved by Parliament, but the government has the right to legislative initiatives, so to speak, the dominant player in this field, after all, it has the apparatus to ensure that its bills are of good quality. And since our government only lasts 13 months so far, the previous government lasted considerably longer, it would probably be best to do it in some average way. Thus, during the parliamentary term, in the 8th term, from 2017 to 2021, the government adopted 88.75 laws annually, i.e. around 89. We have adopted or proposed for the time being, prepared proposals for laws in number 99. It's 13 months, if you count it for that year, it's like 91. So it really is roughly comparable. So the Fialův government has a slightly larger annual average. However, where things are going substantially differently, they are government regulations where the previous government on average issued 66 government regulations a year, and we issued 104 regulations in 2022. So it can be seen that even the legislative work in the regulations was greater. As for the decrees, the average of the previous government was 155 decrees. These are, of course, not government decrees, but individual ministries. And our government in statistics has 178 decrees in 2022. I understand that this is quantity statistics, which doesn't necessarily match the quality yet. However, we can conclude on quality by whether they are being used, possibly how those government procedures are used, which are essentially intended to improve legal regulation, which is the use of the Legislative Council of the Government, possibly its working committees, possibly the use or even the implementation of regulatory impact assessments, the so-called RIA procedures. If we look at it - I still have to say that the Government's Legislative Council is actually an advisory body of the Government in the field of legislative activity. She was established on the basis of the jurisdictional law of 1969, when she was to be chairman of the Legislative Council of the Government. In history, it's the operation of the government of the POLISTAD. It is so that either the Minister of Justice is chairman of the Legislative Council of the Government or someone else, then his position is referred to differently as the Minister of Legislation, the Minister without portfolio and so on. [[9.10 hours]] Anyway, it turns out that it is probably more appropriate for the Prime Minister to be a different member of the Government's Legislative Council than the Minister of Justice, because the President of the Legislative Council of the Government can, so to speak, turn a blind eye to the legislative process and grant exceptions, for example, from the impact assessment of regulation or even from the commentary procedure, and decide whether the materials will be discussed by the Grand Legislative Council of the Government or possibly only by any committees, or whether they will do so without it. Indeed, the situation sometimes forces us, especially for time reasons, to grant these exceptions, and it is probably more appropriate for the Prime Minister to be someone other than the Minister of Justice, because there are relatively fundamental things coming from the Ministry of Justice workshop. Most of them are amendments to civil law, whether material or procedural, or criminal, and there it is really desirable that these procedures be long and properly discussed. If we look at history at the number of government legislative council meetings, in 2017, it was 14 meetings, in 2018 10, in 2019 16, in 2020 16 and 2021 9. We had 21 meetings in 2021 and 94 meetings of the Working Commissions of the Legislative Council of the Government, which is currently 9. I've got the statistics that the committee has discussed, but I'll spare you that. However, I would like to stress that the key legislation that the government is preparing and which is actually going to Parliament is being discussed by the Grand Legislative Council of the Government and it is really essential, whether it be whistleblowing, building law, after all, any changes to the constitution, if they are. In fact, for now, the government has prepared two changes, one of which concerns a change in the constitution regarding the transmission of troops that you had here last Friday. The next amendment concerns the electoral law, and it is actually about the fact that elections to municipal councils and to the Senate are still approaching the summer, so it should be made clear that these elections should take place on the first week of October. Then it was the entire legislation of the penal law from the workshop of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and many others. If you look at the attendance of the Presidents of the Legislative Council of the Government at the meetings, I have about 95 percent attendance. For the time being, I was at 21 of the 22 meetings, which is the largest attendance of the Presidents of the Legislative Councils of the Government, who were in office for at least ten of their meetings, because when someone was the President of the Legislative Council of the Government only briefly and had only three to four sessions, he really was at all, then he has 100% participation. But there were also those Presidents who, for example, have never been to the Legislative Council of the Government, which is actually about the functioning of the Legislative Council of the Government, quality rather from a legislative point of view, but another procedure to improve legislation is the implementation of an assessment of the impact of regulation at all. If we look at it, maybe we will evaluate it from the legislative work plan of the government, so there are detected works either on draft laws or draft decrees or regulations of the government where it is an obligation to do regulatory evaluation, and over time it is possible to follow a certain upward trend that the need to process RIA earlier was needed around 40 percent and today we are moving somewhere between 50 and 60 percent. As part of the evaluation of the effects of regulation, we are currently trying to complete the ex post evaluation of the effects of regulation, when the previous government has already started this plan, so this has not been fully achieved. Currently, the material is a bit revised. In this effort, therefore, we have basically not slowed down and the material is actually in the commentary procedure, where it is argued how the ex post assessment of the effects of regulation will take place. Basically, it's questions about whether it should be done like any press, which seems completely unrealistic, so more like some important law, or not law, rather regulation as such, whether it's regulated by one law or more laws. In this respect, I would point out that, in fact, the Office of the Government has created a separation of legislative analyses, which should contribute actually, or help, to a proper process of regulatory evaluation. It should be a kind of service body for ministries, especially for those workers who do some kind of impact assessment, so that regulation is really based on data, so that the regulatory evaluation process doesn't become some kind of scarecrow, and actually it wasn't done for nothing at the moment when the regulation is written, but to actually prevent the law being even drawn up and thinking about where the regulation will actually go. This department, now nine new places have been created, but they are not new places, actually these new places have been created in agreement with the various ministries, so to speak, that they have reduced one place and that has then moved to the Office of the Government, where this should arise, or this department of legislative analyses has actually been created, which is currently working with some ministries, on the regulation of short-term leases of Airbnb, on the substantive intention of the law and the promotion of tourism, on the proposal of the Housing Support Act, which was mentioned by Minister Bartoš, for example. and, after all, to review crisis legislation. In fact, this department also deals with the detection and persuasion of ministries in that area, which we called anti-bureocratic packages, when we have approved the first package so far, where several areas have been detected, from which the ministries have already fulfilled some of these things. The Minister of Health, Vlastimil Válek, spoke about the abolition of medical examinations in risky professions. Another part of the anti-bureaucratic package is basically being processed by the Ministry of Finance regarding the amendment to accounting laws. It is necessary to abolish compulsory accounting and taxation in crowns. An integral part of legislative action is the adaptation of European Union law, which is essentially implemented by two basic instruments. For one thing, it is a directive that really needs to be incorporated into the rule of law by the fact that the whole regulation is done at national level, or it is a regulation where, although there is a legal text that is directly applicable and then national states are only supposed to implement it, however, practice is quite more complex and really the direct applicability of the regulation has been a little more problematic lately, because the texts of the regulation present turnovers such as Member States are being introduced, the Member States are setting up and the like, so you have to adopt some legislation in the legislative area and it is not going to take place on its own. It can serve as an example of this - last Friday you had here a law on terrorist content, which is actually an additional legal contradiction for the regulation on terrorist content to actually work, that you usually have to, thanks to the constitutional regulations of the national states, which say that state power can only be exercised on the basis of the law, which actually means the competence of some authorities, so when the regulation states that the state has something to do, you have to issue a law where you say which authority is going to do it, and, as a rule, in regulations, there are tasks to Member States that they have to lay down some sanctions that are dissuasive, then you have to disassociate the individual obligations that are there and add some sanctions to it. Which is actually a regulation when the European Commission, if it is then conducting any proceedings with a Member State, it is a so-called substantive procedure that, in fact, the regulation in some way, its implementation in that Member State, does not work entirely. [[9.20 hours]] There's a lot of driving going on. However, these proceedings, if they are not primarily so dangerous, because at the beginning there is actually a dispute over the law, how it actually works in that Member State, and if the judgment of the Court of Justice, where the matter can go, then the judgment is essentially declaratory and says that there is something wrong in that Member State, and then you have to correct it. And only if you don't fix it will you get a ticket. However, the Commission has already been heard that it will be quite stricter and quite agile. We respond to it in a way that there's a problem with the regulations, that there's really no transposition period. All of a sudden, it will start to apply, and you should be ready for it, which the Commission should also just take into account when preparing the regulation. So it's like polemics with the European Commission. However, what is significantly more demanding or, in terms of fiscal, perhaps even more dangerous, is the problem of adopting European directives, when there are procedures for not adopting them, the so-called non-notification procedure, that we are not actually being accepted, notified into that system of the European Commission, so it may mean that in principle you will receive the fine much faster, where the Commission does not demonstrate that you have done something wrong in court, but actually the proof is that you did not. And you didn't typify it because you don't have it at all. That's where the fines are quite elegant. When we took over the government, we actually found out that the situation was, that it was not properly notified, but actually adopted into our legal order, 36 directives. It's gotten a lot better today. We're currently on some 15 directives where, of course, it's coming on, but something's going on. The press or the bill proposal or the directive, which is actually in the biggest slip, is currently whistleblowing. Then I would like to mention briefly that this is not all I have mentioned in the legislative work. The government sometimes also enters into proceedings at the Constitutional Court, when the court acts as a negative legislator and can abolish some, whether legal or illegal, regulations. It is the right of the government to enter these proceedings. During the existence of our government, it was nine proceedings. These proceedings are usually initiated by either 41 Members or 17 Senators. Alternatively, when a court decides a case and finds it necessary to apply a law that is not constitutionally conformal, it can trigger this proceeding, and then the government can apply. In fact, of the nine proceedings, it may be most interesting for you that one of the proceedings was also brought about by the current members of the opposition, and it was basically the proceedings that concerned the amendment to the pandemic law. It was actually the first clash of the coalition and the current opposition in the Constitutional Court, when - perhaps you remember the excited atmosphere - when the government was being reviled from introducing covid totalitarianism and so on. However, the Constitutional Court said that this was not the case and rejected the proposal. So this is in brief what has been done in legislative action, and it really has not been enough. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u3	Thank you, Minister. Another with priority rights - or we have factual points here. First point of fact, Mrs Pastuchová Jana. Madam, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I thank the Minister for giving us his work here in detail, but I don't think the citizens of the Czech Republic care about this at all. And second of all, I don't know if you meant it right or wrong in the fact that you gave us the average statistics of your work here, and you said that your government has issued more decrees and regulations over the last 13 months. And now I don't know if it's right or wrong, because a colleague of Benda's from ODS, through you, says that less is sometimes more. So I don't know if I should take this as positive or bad news.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u5	Thank you, Madame. The next one, with a point of fact, will be made by Mrs Ožanová. Madam, your two minutes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u6	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, Mr Prime Minister, and now I will use the plural - ministers. Minister, I can address you directly. I lacked one crucial thing in your summary for today's meeting, yesterday's and today's, perhaps tomorrow's meeting, and that is how much it costs to run your ministry. Your ministry didn't exist in the last parliamentary term, which is why the comparison is quite complicated with the previous government, but we know that you control the ministry, that it has some expenses, that it has gained some employees. I've missed these statistics.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u7	Thank you for keeping time. Another one with a point of fact, Mrs Malá. Madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u8	Beautiful morning. Mr. Secretary, sometimes less is more. It was your ministry, the 17th ministry that was set up here, that they set up the place for you to go to the Government Legislative Council. So bragging about you having a 95% turnout, that would be a really big deal if you didn't even go there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u9	Thank you for keeping time. One final point in fact, Mrs Peštová Berenika. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Well, I'm gonna be material, and I'm not gonna go hard on you in any way. I was more interested, I was listening very carefully, and you mentioned here that a new union or a department or a commission would be established - now I'm sorry, I missed that. And that should actually be something similar to that RIA babysitting thing, or at least the way I understood it. I say, I'm sorry, I came in a little bit late, so I'd like to explain that, because, of course, every ministry that makes the law has to process it. And I'd like to know exactly what the task of this new department is going to be, whether it's going to be guarding the RIAs that are going to be created, or whether it's going to be guarding whether those laws, or what's being transposed, aren't beyond what's to be transposed. That's one thing. Then, of course, I agree that the laws or the transpositions that must be done will overwhelm them. Before the transposition of one directive, the second directive comes, so they usually don't even meet. So I really agree with you on that, because for example, RED I, RED II, RED III, how they went behind them. And before you transcend it to our right, it actually misses it in its essence. And what I would actually blame for is the churning of these individual directives, is that it brings about such instability that there should be some stability after all. This means that for a period of five years it will not be adopted, and not that for five years there will be further and further directives. In fact, in its essence, the other sector doesn't even know what's going to happen, because it's already coming up with something else. And I wanted to ask you one more question. You have a legislative plan of work. So I wonder how many laws this government, which actually put into that legislative plan of work, has adopted and how much it has been overly adopted. [[President: Time, Madame.]] That means they weren't working on the legislative plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u11	Thank you. That was the last point of fact. We are going back to the debate in which the Minister of Culture Baxa is registered with priority rights. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u12	Mr Vice-President, Prime Minister, Madam Secretary, dear colleagues, I would like to start by saying the terminology which belongs to my department, and therefore I would like to say that I never really wanted to be an actor in Mr Babiš's campaign, but his electoral staff wanted to, and so we are all here at this completely unnecessary meeting, at which Mr Babiš will try to bring down the government, even though he knows very well that he will not succeed. [[9.30 hours]] But, ladies and gentlemen, of course, the opposition, according to the Constitution, has the right to hold similar shows. But if, as Minister of Culture, I return to the theatrical terminology, I must say that here, given the real reason for calling this meeting, we are actually watching something that we might call a sort of absurd theater. On the other hand, I would like to thank Mr Babiš's election staff, because because of his efforts to become head of state at all costs, I now have the opportunity to introduce to you what we have been able to do at the Ministry of Culture in the last year. So let's go together into a world of culture that, as I like to say, connects. And since culture unites, by the way, it is so different from Mr Babiš's election campaign. Ladies and gentlemen, I inherited the resort not in its best condition a year ago. The Czech Republic was threatened with fines for the late introduction of certain standards, which we made a commitment to adopt. And by the way, I don't think there was much going on in the past government when this unfortunate situation happened. But I am not here to merely recapitulate the rest of the previous cabinet, so I will rather introduce how we led Czech culture out of the time of the covid and how we are working on its support in these difficult times. So I would like to start by looking back at the covid period. When I joined the Ministry of Culture at the end of 2021, this happened at the time of the peaking covid wave, which is now a bit forgotten, but it was very important. At that time, we faced the promises of the previous government that it would provide further covido support, which, by the way, was referred to by all actors operating in the culture sector. Only somehow nothing was prepared by our predecessors and we also faced the risk of further closure of cultural activities. However, we faced this very successfully and managed to ensure compensation for cultural actors. Thanks to the negotiations of my Ministry with the Ministry of Industry and Trade and with the Ministry of Finance, the funds were found and directed mainly to those who were particularly affected by the restrictions of the autumn 2021, which means, above all, organizers of large cultural events. What was even more important, and I would like to point out here, is that we have fulfilled our promise not to deal with the epidemic situation of the lockdown and the closure of culture. On the contrary, the Ministry of Culture, thanks to close cooperation with the Ministry of Health and the involvement of cultural actors in this issue, when we proved that culture is not a risk environment, was very quick, much, much faster than it did in previous covido waves, and the summer season of 2022 could have been done without any restrictions for the past two years, which was absolutely essential for the population affected by cultural actors. So it seemed that, as Covid gradually receded, the resolution of compensation for culture by adopting a budget amendment for 2022 - which the original proposal had prepared by the previous government administration completely unrealistically - would be the time to work as a standard. However, from one day to the next, we had to face other unexpected challenges that we could not control, namely the effects of Putinův's aggression against Ukraine. All of this brought with it new costs that we could not predict - capacity, budget - and therefore I would like to focus on the next part of my presentation of the Ministry of Culture budget. The Ministry of Culture has never lost a lot of money. We were very aware of this, and within the state budget we have in our government's programming statement that we want to gradually approach one percent of the state budget, the state budget expenditure for culture. There's still a long way to go, but I don't think we're doing the wrong thing. The budget of culture is undersized years, maybe decades. By the way, the Ministry of Culture itself is an office with 300 employees, probably at least of all ministries. However, we are economical, but very efficient. However, we are aware, of course, that the efficiency and economic mode in which we work in our office does not mean that even the entire culture cannot be imaginarily alive from the air. [[Can he?]] That is why the budget negotiations for 2023 were carried out in this spirit, in a spirit of getting closer to the objectives in the programming declaration and, above all, to supporting culture itself. The approved budget is approved, it was created at a very difficult time when Europe faces inflation, dramatic increases in energy prices, the effects of Putinův's aggression. Our government is aware of the need for help. And in the case of my ministry, it is about promoting culture and cultural activities throughout the Czech Republic, not only our own organizations. I am satisfied with the budget of my ministry for 2023 and I consider the result to be a great success. But I don't want to talk about my success. I would like to stress that the Ministry of Culture's budget for this year is a sign that the government considers culture its priority. We will therefore manage this year with an amount which, even taking into account the covido years, is in absolute value the highest that the Ministry of Culture has ever had at its disposal. It is CZK 18,5 billion, including expenses under the property settlement law with churches. By the way, in 2022, my ministry's budget was CZK 15.23 billion. So this is an increase of one fifth. Let us look at the seven selected areas that best show the above priority approach of our government to culture. These are key points for preserving cultural services. And, of course, they are and will always be the subject of major discussions by cultural actors in the so-called established and unestablished area of culture here in the House. But I am aware that this is very important, and I am certainly ready to have this debate at any time. The first priority is funding the contribution organisations of my ministry. When discussing the financing of culture, there is often talk of the one percent mentioned in public space. And sometimes it remains a little hidden from the fact that the priority task of the Ministry of Culture and of each minister is to ensure the operation, finance the investments of the several dozen organizations that we have, mainly because in some areas it is the key state institutions, the most important of its kind: the Czech Philharmonic, the National Gallery, the National Museum, the National Theatre. Institutions that simply stand at the top of their genre and therefore have to be very intensely dedicated to them. I must also admit that, after taking up the ministry, even though I had said quite knowledgeable of the situation, I was surprised at how this sometimes remains hidden behind and how it is always said to support an external, unestablished culture, which is clearly important, but simply carrying out tasks towards our own institutions is clearly a fundamental matter for every minister or should be. By the way, we have 32 organizations, and they include not only those I mentioned, but I would certainly like to say at least this - or not at least, I would like to mention the largest of them, which is the National Heritage Institute, which takes care of more than 100 monuments throughout the country, and all the other mentioned ones. We have managed to secure an increase of CZK 300 million for this year to cope with rising energy prices, as well as another 300 million to project a 10% increase in wages. This, too, is a very important subject, because as far as cultural workers are concerned, their salaries are not actually as high as they would certainly be for these employees in many ways... or deserved by the employees. This, too, shows that the government sees the remuneration of employees in culture as one of its priorities. Overall, it is aimed at the operation of our contribution organizations 6.24 billion crowns. [[9.40 hours]] The second priority I would like to mention in this context is the State Support Programme for Professional Theatre and Permanent Professional Symphony Orchestras and Choirs. The programme will be subsidized 100 million more than it was allocated in the approved budget in 2022. It is a support that I consider to be very important, in the case of some of the organisations that are supported by it, even as vital, because, as in the vast majority of cases, it concerns theatres and philharmonics, in simple terms, set up by municipal and regional authorities, there are cases where the situation is burdensome and where the state contribution has a vital role to play. Overall, it will be CZK 400 million this year. The third priority area of our interest is the promotion of diverse cultural activities of an unestablished culture to which they fall or, mostly, of an unestablished culture to which the consequences of the overall unsatisfying, difficult situation of war fall, the effects of rising energy prices are actually the hardest, because these institutions do not have a founder who would give them the basic support in this situation. This year, more than CZK 800 million will be directed towards this support, which is CZK 167 million more than last year. This is the basic support of the Ministry, which actually enables key support not only for individual projects but also for organisations in these individual genres and areas. Another priority is the development of the cultural and creative sector through the National Recovery Plan and European Union funds. These are EU funds amounting to CZK 2.4 billion, a mix of funds for the ongoing projects of the Integrated Regional Operational Programme and the implementation of the National Recovery Plan initiatives, which I will still be talking about. But there's one important thing I want to underline here. The fact that this is European money does not mean that it is money that goes to my resort automatically. If it weren't for the entire reboot of the system for preparing the National Recovery Plan, we would never have gotten these funds and would never have gone into culture. The fifth priority is the restoration of cultural monuments. In 2022 some grant programs were not announced. We have returned to them despite this difficult situation, so this year 713 million crowns are aimed at promoting cultural heritage, especially the monuments themselves. The sixth budgetary priority is film incentives. This is an absolutely crucial thing, because thanks to the system settings I'm going to get to, we've managed to get the system running. In 2022, some CZK 570 million was still going to the original 800 million, so we reached nearly 1.4 billion in 2022 and since 2023, since this year's approved budget, it has been heading towards the film incentives of CZK 1.4 billion. This is an important report for the Czech audiovisual and film market. The last priority I would like to mention in my information on the budget is investment funds for cultural infrastructure. These are finances beyond the common priorities of the Ministry and are designed to finally transform long-term promises into reality. Colleagues and colleagues, I will stress in this chapter two investment actions, which are relatively small in scope, but for reasons which will certainly result from what I say, absolutely essential. We will begin with the reconstruction of the monument of silence, i.e. the railway station in the area of Holešovice-Bubny. During the Second World War, during the Holocaust, transports with several tens of thousands of racially-marked inhabitants from Prague, but not only from Prague, were transported to the ghetto, where most of them headed to concentration and extermination camps, and a large majority of them did not return. This place was neglected and over the next three years, this historically significant investment site of CZK 30 million will be reconstructed. It is clearly our duty to build a significant monument to the victims of the Shoo and it is a debt that must be repaid. However, he wanted to mention in that context one of the minor examples of what actually has to be dealt with unexpectedly in my resort. The monument of silence became a contribution organization of the Ministry of Culture for the past government administration in such an unusual way that my predecessor, Minister of Culture Luboš Zaorálek, had the state organization of the Memorial of Silence founded at the time on some of the insistence of the then Prime Minister. I completely agree that this state organization was created because it certainly deserves such a state form. What I certainly cannot agree with is the incredible implementation of this operation. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Culture did not receive a crown at the time - neither for operation nor for the investment itself, and did not receive any tables. So, despite the very numerous negotiations that then the Ministry's employees and the minister were conducting with the Prime Minister, with Minister Schillerová, nothing came up. So the cast of the Silence Memorial was created by removing money and tables from other contribution organizations of my ministry, and this cannot really be considered a professional and responsible approach with such an organization. We are still struggling with the consequences of these mistakes today, but I am sure that thanks to all the steps we have taken in recent months, Director Štingl will be able to manage the investment for CZK 30 million in the following years with the support of both my Ministry and the National Museum team, which has been designed to help this issue. Another important investment event for the following period is the construction of a memorial of the Romani Holocaust in Lety u Písku. It is one of the darkest places in our history, a place in Lety near Písek, where there was a Romani concentration camp, and we must stress the unfortunate fact that the genocide of Czech and Moravian Rom and Sint is one of the most consistent genocides of World War II. I want to underline this again and stress this because this genocide has been neglected for a long time and has even been downgraded. It also shows how long it took for a disgraceful pig farm to be demolished, I prefer to use the adequate term piggy who grew up on the site of the concentration camp in the 1970s. The State bought out the premises in 2018, it was in the past governments - in this case I would clearly point out that it was the right step - and the costs that we... This year we should proceed to the construction or to the realization of the entire memorial itself. It managed to save in 2022 for demolition costs thanks in this respect to the favourable situation on the construction market and will make the whole thing happen. I would just like to mention that in July of last year in Lety, when the symbolic demolition of piggyback began, I felt a great need to apologize on behalf of the Government of the Czech Republic for all the politicians who ignored the history of Lety u Písek in recent years, downplayed or misjudged. And in this case, I would like to thank, in particular, Minister Daniel Herman, who was very important in the previous government for the purchase of the pig farm and managed to enforce it. The costs of building a visitor centre with exhibition, revitalization of the place and memorial modifications will be around CZK 100 million. We expect the opening this year. In addition to the state budget, the so-called Norwegian funds play an important role in co-financing this matter. Once again, it is an integral part of my agenda not only to fill these investment actions, but to connect them with the presence of past events and past events, however pleasant it may sometimes be, because these are chapters of our history, which we certainly cannot be proud of, but that is all the more important to remember. [[9.50 hours]] The last project I would like to mention in relation to the finances for this year is that in the framework of state support for investments by other investors in the field of culture, in addition to already secured funds for reconstruction of Janáček's centre in Brno, we are now putting into this imaginary list the House of Culture of Ostrava, a new concert hall from Studio Steven Holl, an architect from New York. It is definitely a project with great international overlap and high artistic added value. The state will provide 600 million crowns in years for this project. However, ladies and gentlemen, these are three actions where the financial scope is small in the context of state budget investment expenditure. And I must say that there is a much less encouraging state of affairs in an investment programme directed towards our own cultural heritage, i.e. investment projects by my ministry. There are many problems. I consider it a big mistake that, in recent years, the political leadership of my department has little to do with updating the individual project documentation and preparation, so the result is that many projects today have allocated absolutely insufficient funds in the national cultural heritage in the investment programme. Just because the prices of construction work, materials and so on have risen substantially over the last few years, we all know the situation. But my predecessors have never given a clear update to these projects, which must be carried out at present, and as a result, the funds in this investment program are far from covering even the most basic needs. We are currently working on their revision, setting priorities. The main priority I have decided on is the construction of the depositary of the National Gallery in Jinonice, Prague. Last year's accident at the Trade Fair Palace, which, fortunately, thanks to the consistent implementation of the emergency plans managed to manage without damage, shows that it is absurd and unsustainable, especially unsustainable, that our key memory collection institution, the National Gallery, does not have adequate conditions for storing its collections and therefore the construction of the National Gallery will be set as a priority. We have major investment projects in a number of our organizations. New scene of the National Theatre, Prague's Invalidovna, Central European Forum in Olomouc, future revitalization of the Trade Fair Palace and many others. And it is my job to convince the government that it is necessary to provide considerable investment funds for these actions. What about the conclusion of this part of the budget? Odds are critical voices that claim that culture is not considered by this government to be a major priority. In fact, I am pleased that the votes are getting fewer and fewer, because the figures for this year seem to speak. Clearly, culture is not just one of the small chapters in the eyes of the government. Investment and operational resources, as well as resources dedicated to external support, show this, and will certainly be our goal to continue to fulfil what is in the government's programming declaration. I also try to be in close communication with the authorities that I believe will... or will support and continue to promote culture at its level. I also believe in greater support for benefactors to fill in the way I mentioned that culture unites. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address the issue of film incentives. I talked about them in my performance in the context of finance. Now they deserve a more detailed factual explanation. Movie incentives and the film industry are a key priority of our government. Among other things, because, in simple terms, the Czech Republic is good at this. We're really good. The film industry, the film professionals who operate in this industry in the Czech Republic, are very popular and successful and for this reason we considered this segment essential after joining the Ministry. However, the situation in which there was public support for the film industry at the beginning of 2022 was therefore extremely unhappy. So, to put it simply, the film incentives have been stopped. They had a huge debt in front of them on the terms of the film incentives, and there was no way that we would have the system, or that would have seemed like a way to open the system. The problem was not only in the absolute lack of money, but also in the fact that little reflected how the market in this area was transformed. The film incentive system that we have known so far has simply survived, the demands of foreign production have skyrocketed over time, the audiovisual market has undergone dramatic changes. Instead of supporting the production of films, the production of series for individual platforms prevails today. And the Ministry of Culture simply neglected this fact systemically. For this reason, when there wasn't enough money, the system suddenly became unpredictable and investors began to think about leaving the Czech Republic. We have, by the way, the limit of film incentives compared to some European countries lower, but our 20% significantly compensates for the fact that film producers here are used to professional work, great human resources, a clear environment, and that is why they were willing to invest here until it became apparent that the state aid model for this industry was no longer working. It was therefore necessary to resolve how this system should be re-established, how to cover commitments from the past, and how to achieve a good solution. The Association of Producers in Audiovision played a key role here. Thanks to its representative, Vratislav Šlajer, his colleagues, and the intense negotiations and data that they have provided to us, we have obtained a good basis for negotiating with the government. And I am very glad that this has succeeded. We have therefore increased the budget for incentives to less than CZK 1.4 billion in 2022 and we are counting on support of CZK 1.4 billion for this year and in the outlooks for the years to come. But we changed the system. We have implemented a ceiling of CZK 150 million through the amendment of the Act on Services of Platforms. This was important because, for example, one series was able to draw hundreds of millions of crowns, several hundred million crowns. Today, the amount is set at CZK 150 million, but it's just some kind of interlude. There is currently an amendment to the Audiovision Act, in which I will still speak on the issue of legislation. Let me just remind you that, therefore, we are aimed not only at promoting film incentives, but also at supporting other areas of cinema. Let me just recap, this is the first opportunity to do it, the individual numbers. The introduction of a ceiling on the project and the fixation of the budget led to the adoption of a record number of applications for registration when the State Cinema Fund opened the incentives this year. There's a total of 153. This is great news for the audiovisual industry and the Czech economy. [[10.00 hours]] The advisory group for the transformation of the State Cinematography Fund into the State Audiovision Fund works intensively. All actors are involved in it, and it shows once again how important it is in this case to have a professional discussion with all those affected by the changes so that it does not subsequently happen, as it did before, that, despite the warning about the running system, nothing has been done and the result was a complete cessation of the system at the beginning of 2022. Of course, the positive results are coming back. By the way, the segment of the film industry contributes greatly to the post-covide recovery of the service sector, to the promotion of the Czech Republic as an attractive tourist destination. Each of you would suddenly remember knowing the place while watching a supported movie. It's not just Prague. When I see my colleague, Mr Marek Ženíšek, here in the hall of his fellow Member, he has, by the way, contributed to a significant increase in money, such as the Pilsen Region, in support of film incentives, when he was Deputy Minister for Culture in the Pilsen Region. So even the regional support for the film industry plays a role. I would like to thank, on this occasion, not only colleagues in the government who saw this as important, but, above all, Minister Zbyňka Stanjur, when he himself personally and his office contributed to the fact that this partial solution of the system was found and that we are working together on this solution of the future. Very expected, ladies and gentlemen, was the National Recovery Plan. Here I have to stress one positive thing. At the time when the National Recovery Plan was being prepared, my predecessor at the Ministry of Culture succeeded in including a relatively important component of culture into the National Recovery Plan, but unfortunately other steps did not follow. When I came to the Ministry and became familiar with the real state of preparation of the National Recovery Plan, I was overwhelmed by quite a lot of concerns that had been growing over time, because the political leadership of the Ministry from the last parliamentary term was not really set up by the system of how to draw these incentives. I set up a steering committee, set up some basic matrix in which these processes are being implemented, and we managed to run the system in 2022. Challenges run, the cultural community draws money from them. Unfortunately, at the end of the reign of Andrej Babiš, nearly 2 billion disappeared from the original 7.4 billion. The then Deputy Prime Minister Havlíček transferred them from the resort of culture to another area. It is money that, unfortunately, cannot return to the field of culture, but even the 5.5 billion crowns is an amount that will make a very significant contribution to the field of culture, and not only that, I want to underline it, in the amount as such, but also in the areas that can be supported from the National Recovery Plan, which was far from being done in previous years, whether it is the mobility of artists, the promotion of creative industry and others. The funds of the National Recovery Plan can therefore help institutions and individuals of the cultural and creative sector and are also regionally spread out thanks to, for example, measures for regional cultural and creative centres. In 2022, the first funds were already distributed in May. I merely recapitulate that within the so-called component, that is, that is, the title of the programme for my ministry, so there are five separate areas, so-called initiatives where funds are available and where challenges are written: the status of artist and artist, the development of the regional cultural and creative sector, digitization, creative vouchers and legislative reform. Four challenges are already closed. Two other challenges were announced in December - the so-called design of credits, where we want to apply 1,000 vouchers worth CZK 200 million in the creative voucher initiative in 2023 and CZK 600 million in total for this period as a whole, which can basically help small entrepreneurs in the cultural and creative sector - design, advertising - in what we know very well. Five challenges are currently in the evaluation process. The most important topics in addition to cultural mobility for this year and the year to come are the development of large cultural and creative centres in the regions, a very important thing - and, by the way, there is basic, or the basic sum with which it is operated, almost CZK 3 billion - and digitalisation itself. There are 11 challenges for this year and I would say the program is running to the fullest. The last of the segment I want to talk about in more detail is legislation. It is a matter which is not so commonly associated with my ministry, but I realized that in the previous period, when I was here in the House as chair of the subcommittee on culture, that the issue of media, cultural legislation, because these are the two basic areas to which my department is engaged, was underestimated. And that has nothing to do with what the government was like before. It's just a general thing, where it's as if it's considered that the few laws that my ministry has in its gesture, as it does somehow, and we're glad that we don't have to engage in a difficult debate in the House. At the beginning of 2022, I inherited three important bills, which were the transposition of European directives, two of which were so neglected that we were really threatened with fines in the tens of millions of crowns, and so I cannot imagine who would be responsible for our country paying fines of 70, 80, 100 million crowns simply because someone did not submit this proposal on time, those proposals to the House and that the House did not discuss them. So we've been doing this very intensively, and we've done it through a legislative process. I would like to stress that, in all three cases, I am grateful and paid for this, thanks to negotiations across the Chamber of Deputies, supported by members of the opposition and the coalition. These are laws that are important in their areas, which they regulate, and it is good for Members to agree on them. Amendment to the Copyright Act, the transposition of the European Directive on Platform Services and the sharing of video recordings and the Act on the entry and import of certain cultural goods into the customs territory of the European Union. At this point, the information sent to the competent authorities of the Union, the fines avoided. However, I have decided that we have a rather ambitious legislative plan of our own. This means those bills that we do not have prescribed in the context of the fact that this is a transposition, but which actually concern our own legislative initiatives. The first big group consists of an amendment to media laws. It is therefore a so-called small amendment to the laws on Czech Television and Czech Radio, which will enable the Senate to be involved in the elections of the Council of Czech Television and Czech Radio. On the contrary, it is a subject that raises quite a lot of debate. I see your colleague Aleš Juchelka has been very attentive, but not just him. Not everything we agree on, but I think it is a very important amendment because it increases the stability and resilience of public media. I firmly believe that, perhaps in this very principle of involving the Senate, we cannot agree with all Members. There are opinions that I absolutely cannot agree with, such as the low representativeness of the Senate, on the other hand, I think that in the long term, and that is why these amendments are actually coming up, the dilution of potential political influences on council elections will serve everyone for the benefit, especially the public media as themselves. But we are going to have a big discussion in this area at the committee's third reading, so I'm sure there will also be this detailed discussion. [[10.10 hours]] When I spoke in a plural about the amendments to media laws, I mean that, in addition to this small amendment, the so-called big amendment to the Czech Television and Czech Radio laws is currently being prepared intensively, where its main task is to ensure the sustainable management of these public media. The roads are multifaceted, we primarily want to focus on redefining the licence fee. Let me just mention that, as is often called for a mere increase in licence fees, with the argument that inflation has devalued the current amount, so, of course, in absolute terms, it is true, but as I have spoken with the film incentives about how the film market has dramatically changed, it also applies here. Quite simply, the time has simply gone away when, for example, the Czech TV television broadcast was consumed in quotation marks only through television receivers, today, in particular, some age categories are normally turning away from television and watching public broadcasting via the Internet. So that, too, should be taken into account in some way in the legislation in force. But, of course, we want to deal with other things, such as some technological modifications and so on. The very important legislative act we are preparing is a big amendment to the audiovisual law. It has to fundamentally change the film incentives or their form. In the first half of this year, we want this bill to be in interdepartmental proceedings and the result is the overall transformation of the State Cinema Fund. The Act on a Public Cultural Institution is a complete novelty. We have made great progress after decades of overstepping in its fulfillment. It is a law that can help, in particular, some cultural institutions in certain regions, where it is not the will of different levels of self-government, in particular, to co-establish these organisations simply because they are not adequate legal forms, and public cultural institutions can certainly help. This is primarily the initiative of the Association of Professional Theatre, but I think that this future legal form of VKI is possible for institutions of another type. We are also preparing a partial amendment to the Act on Monument Care, an amendment to the Act on Certain Types of Culture Support, the introduction of the status of an artist, the amendment to the Librarian Act, the so-called Trinovel. In fact, all the legislation that my department has in its own sense, we want to amend and change in some way, because I think the time has already come and in some cases the time when these laws have been sidelined is unbearably extended. So many, colleagues and colleagues, to the main areas of my work. I had some other parts originally prepared, which are devoted to the area of monuments and others, so I will mention them only in enumeration. Let me just remind you that, in addition to financial support for the restoration of the monument fund, we were successful in the field of entry into the UNESCO list, the program was registered in the prestigious International Register of Best Practices for the Conservation of Unmaterial Cultural Heritage of Humanity by UNESCO. The tradition of Vorařství was registered on the Representative List of Nonmaterial Cultural Heritage of Humanity UNESCO and in 2022 a project was held for several years, a large meeting of the General Conference of the International Council of Museums of ICOM, when nearly 3.5 thousand experts from museums, galleries and cultural industries from 123 countries of the world arrived and a new definition of the museum was adopted. We also adopted a methodology for photovoltaic systems - within the framework of conservation care, to be exact. We've devoted ourselves to remembering the past. We have reminded ourselves of 80 years since the Anthropoid military operation, not only the National Museum, but also other institutions, I think, not only with dignity but also educationally, didactically reminded this crucial chapter of our modern history. We also remembered the 200th anniversary of Gregor Johann Mendel's birth. My resort also significantly focused on supporting a very damaged and targeted damaged cultural heritage and culture of Ukraine. On June 29, I visited the Ukrainian Lvov, where I signed a declaration in which we joined in the need to help Ukraine. We did so, several million crowns were directed to the reconstruction or support of cultural institutions in Ukraine. We also supported the broadcasting of Radio Ukraine in the Czech Republic, I was in intensive contact with Oleksandr Tkačenk, Ukrainian Minister of Culture, and we want to continue to do so. Within the Presidency, I would like to mention, we have fulfilled the main priority of the Presidency in this area, the adoption of the European Union Work Plan on Culture for the years 2023 to 2026, we have organised several expert conferences on conservation, the summit on European cultural heritage organised by Europa Nostra, an expert conference on media and copyright regulation and self-regulation. I could continue, ladies and gentlemen, but I slowly exhausted my repertoire today. In fact, I do not expect applause from opposition colleagues, but I promise that if you applaud me, I will not come back here again, because I hope that the citizens of our country will present themselves to Mr Babiš and his electoral staff next weekend. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u13	Thank you. Your performance gave one round of applause and three factual points. However, before I approach them, I will make two apologies. Mr Richter Jan apologises within 12 hours for family reasons, Mrs Válková Helena from 10 to 12 hours for work reasons. And now let's move on to the actual notes. First to speak, Mrs Pokorná Jermanová. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u14	Thank you. Dear colleagues, Minister, Ministers, Madam Secretary, I must respond to this speech by Minister Baxa. Minister, I will disappoint you. I'm gonna let you down, and that's because you guys are saying you don't want to be an actor in Babiš's campaign. But to me, you're an actor as Minister of Culture. And whether it's good or bad, it's every conclusion itself. It's not that good with quality for me. I'm gonna be very quick, I've only got two minutes, so I'm sorry for the very short notes. It is your fault that the cultural resort, theatres, cinemas and so on found itself in a very difficult situation at the beginning of last year. It took you a very long time to put in place compensation. All I'm saying is that the time of the covide wasn't high in 2021, it was high in 2020. So you guys came in, and covid's almost done. And it's been ringing all along, so let's just get this straight, let's put it in context. But I don't want to say in any way that you were in a better situation than the government was last. As far as the budget is concerned. When you came to the Ministry of Culture, you cut off the draft budget prepared by the last government saying how bad it is, how terrible it is. At the end of the year, or in the summer, you were adjusting the budget and the money you took, so you put it back in. Well, that's just to tell you how it was in reality. What I think is very important is that you don't care about what the main thing is in culture, and they're workers in culture. Ten percent increase, and you know that, at the rate of their salaries, is basically nothing. I would expect you to perform with some strategy that you have prepared, with which you will go to the Minister... [[President: Time, Madame.]] Well, then I'll save it for my speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u15	Thank you. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová will make another comment. Aleš Juchelka will be ready. Madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u16	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I have a question for the Minister of Culture - here you are, Minister, yes. You spoke of many monuments to which funds will go through the Ministry of Culture, and you did not mention here one very important monument, which is in the Karlovy Vary Region, and these are the Imperial Spa. I dare say that the reconstruction of the Imperial Spa, which no one has started in the last 20 years and we started it in 2019, is the second most important repair after the National Museum, which was also started by the previous government in 2015 and finished it in 2018. The fact that the Imperial Spa in the Karlovy Vary Region is finally being repaired is amazing. We managed to get it fixed the way they are. The contractor won the tender for 840 million. When this amount came, it was very high at that time, so I approached the Finance Minister, at that time Mrs. Alena Schillerová, who gave 50 percent of the resources to repair the monument. She gave it to the state budget, of course, 450 million. The new regional leadership, headed by the STAN movement, came up with a concert hall for the symphonies. You know that very well. It's a great idea. I agree with that. The symphonies will have a place to perform. But the budget went up to 1.5 billion. And I'd like to ask you, how much has your government added since then, if it's going to be 50 percent? So if you could answer that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u17	Thank you for keeping time. The next, with a factual remark, will be expressed by Mr Juchelka. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am, of course, grateful to Minister Bax, who, as one of the few ministers, had the courage to come forward here before the Chamber of Deputies plenary and let us respond by his factual remarks, because yesterday such practice was not, and everyone spoke out in some way, gave no room for opposition and as one man stood up and left the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. And, of course, we know what happened here the other night. So, first of all, thank you so much for having the courage to respond in some way to our reactions. Unfortunately, as far as the Czech Television is concerned, we will, of course, disagree on that. I'm here, and that's why it's great that I can respond to it and make things right. It's quite different. All you have to do is ask yourself two questions: Why doesn't the whole change wait with advice, with the choice of the board and with the choice of the CEO for the big amendment to the Czech Television Act, which is being prepared this year? Because it's the government's programming statement, you will, of course, fulfill it in this parliamentary term. And why, for example, can't the effectiveness of that little amendment to the law be, if you're not interested in controlling public media, from 1. 1. 2024? These are two very simple questions, which, of course, you can't answer clearly and clearly, because if that were the case, of course, you would confirm my words, confirming them because you're going to be pissed off about it. And for the last half-minute, of course, I'm giving away misinformation. You, as Minister of Culture and, in general, as a government representative, and the one with his fellow government agent alongside him for the media and for the fight against Mr Klíma's misinformation, are responsible for what de facto is going on in this government. And he's going to really scramble the media as such. Next to the public, you're missing a private puzzle, and that's what you're doing with the Disinformation Act. [[Time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u19	Time. Thank you. The next, with a point of fact, will be made by Mrs Pokorná Jermanová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u20	Thank you. I didn't expect it to be so soon. However, I would like to say, Minister, you are not very good at communicating with the authorities, because regional organizations receive letters that are not entirely based on the truth or receive information that is wrong. This concerns, in particular, the laws on public cultural institutions. That's where all the information comes out of the ministry, and it's smashing in different ways. As far as film incentives are concerned, it's certainly good that they continue, we all know that. I would like to say that not only the Pilsen Region, but also the Central Bohemia Region strongly supports film incentives. You must have seen the film Jan Žižka, you were at his premiere, so it was financed from the resources of the Central Bohemia Region, and I would like to say for my leadership, and that's where we introduced the film office, so it's happening across the government. As far as communication about laws is concerned, I consider the law on public cultural institutions to be a very important law, a necessary law. [[public]] But what I consider undesirable is that you exclude some actors from communication. When you make laws, you create certain small groups that suit you, and they present the finished items to, for example, trade union representatives, which I don't think is right at all. And as for media laws, I agree with you that these laws will survive after some time. But I consider these laws to be laws that require consensus across the political spectrum. And you don't do that. As far as the Czech Television and Czech Radio Act is concerned, I think it would certainly wait until the big novel. It really smells like you want to put a related person in the position of director of Czech Television very quickly. And you're not gonna talk anybody out of it at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u21	Thank you for keeping time. The next one, with a factual remark, will be made by Mr Feranec. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Dear members of the government, ladies and gentlemen - is the Minister not leaving? I have a question about what you said. You mentioned the need for a refinition of licence fees there, and you talked about the fact that a larger part of the company is actually monitoring the CT not only through receivers, but also through social networks. So I take it you're thinking about expanding the taxpayers' ring of this charge? I guess so. And then, and I'm kind of wondering if you could briefly express yourself, in what way, that means every Internet user who has the opportunity to look at some of the iSending, would pay a new licence fee? It's kind of like a major change. So I'd just like to see if I got it right? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u23	Thank you. The following is the factual comment made by Minister Baxa. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u24	Thank you. I'm gonna react a little bit. When she mentioned Mrs. pokorný Jermanová, the covid - my colleague, through the Vice-President, I actually experienced in the first few weeks of the ministry that cultural actors went to online conferences and said, so when do you start paying out the subsidies, the covido support? Because the previous government said, Minister Zaorálek, they're in the budget. They weren't. Well, that's a very simple statement. And actually, it had to start as a negotiation again. They really asked me fairly, that is, Minister Schillerová, the Vice Prime Minister Havlíček of the time said, pay us the subsidies that are allocated money. They weren't. Then it's just about what had to be done. As far as media legislation is concerned, my colleague Juchelka will forgive me if we keep the discussion of a small amendment to the committee for the third reading. But I want to respond to what Mr Feranec said. The concession fee will never be paid per person. It's always a licence fee defined for the household. That's important. If it happens this way, as you said, we don't know yet, it's one of the options. We have more of those options. This trip works in Germany or Austria. Maybe we won't. But I'm sure we won't accept that, co-workers, co-workers, I'm just saying, when you guys put in that bill here that frees seniors from the concession fee, we're definitely not gonna support it, because, as the Brit simply say, you can't have an egg and eat an omelet. That means keeping public television on the air and losing it's main source of income is impossible. So it's just about the concession fee redefining. [[10.30 hours]] And the debates on self-government. It is probably because, Mrs Jermanová, you also have information from one side, because of how we managed to communicate... [[Time, Minister.]] ... so maybe the National Recovery Plan was underway.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u25	Thank you. Another comment will be made by Vice-President Havlíček. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u26	Yes. Hello. Minister, you so implied that the Ministry of Industry and Trade were the bad guys. So I would just like to remind you that within the framework of the National Recovery Plan, we have prepared CZK 7.4 billion for your sector for the development of cultural and creative industries, which is certainly not a small amount of 180 billion. And in any case, this year, if you didn't like something there, I mean last year, you could still do it. The second thing is that it is necessary to recall the aid - if not for the Ministry of Industry and Trade, tens of thousands of artists, businesses, entrepreneurs would not survive. We pulled them on us, we had resources on them, we created COVID programs - Culture, I guess, one to four. We've been communicating with them. Of course, it was not close to us in the sense that we did not fully know their issues, we met them and I dare say that we saved them. After that, the covido support in 2022 was to continue at the Ministry of Industry and Trade. You shouldn't have bothered, you didn't understand. I'm not saying that in a bad way, it's just reality, because it was to a large extent business activities, it was small theatres, artists, artists, associations, they were different organizers of cultural events, and in the Ministry of Industry we were counting on this support, everything was written out and we had enough budget for it. Plus, you were completely redesigning the budget, so you could easily include any support there. Unfortunately, cultural officials followed me as a Member for the whole first half of 2002, that you threw them overboard, and that is a shame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u27	Thank you for keeping time. Well, hello, and I've got Mrs. Balaštíková's account in there. Yes, Mr Juchelka will then be prepared afterwards. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u28	Hello, colleagues and colleagues. I'm not asking questions, I'm just gonna make some details here. Minister, you said at the very beginning of your speech that you weren't closing concert halls, that you weren't doing lockdowns. I just want to say that the person who faces for the first time is the first person who has to face something like this after a long time, so sometimes he makes mistakes. We didn't do it at the end either, and you guys, please, didn't have to do it because the wave was falling - first. And secondly, you have learned from some things. And I'd just like to remind you that many have. And there was fear of what attacked the world. So please be correct and then you won't force us to perform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u29	I also thank you for keeping time. And now, Mr Juchelka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u30	Thank you very much. I'll just follow up on Minister Baxa. We will really discuss all matters concerning the amendment to the Czech Television and Czech Radio Act before, of course, the third reading in the Chamber of Deputies on the Election Committee, but also invite you to the Election Committee and all the public. 2. where we will also discuss the upcoming scandal law on misinformation, what the government is preparing. At this point, I can say that, of course, we have invited both the Ministry of the Interior and Mr. Government Agent Klíma, the invitation will leave during today or next week. Because it's really scandalous. It's scandalous to give 100 million to the media that are obedient and that will have to be obedient to the money. Choose the nonprofit sector - and give it, subsidize it 50 million - which will guard the right information in the public space and the wrong misinformation, whatever we can think of it, is scandalous. And, of course, the preparation of a change in the Criminal Code on misinformation, in order to have fear and censorship in some way in our democratic society - and the value, the great value of every democracy is freedom of speech - is also scandalous. First degree of censorship, first stage of censorship is self-censorship. And at this point, we have her. At this point, all citizens, MPs, media and journalists have their own tell-tale blinking, what they can't say, what they are and what isn't mainstream, what goes downstream and what goes upstream, because it always brings them problems, at least, at least a big hat speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u31	Thank you. Indeed, factually, they should respond to the course of the debate. Mr Lubomír Brož is now registered and then Mrs Pokorná Jermanová can prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u32	Thank you. Minister, I also have a few comments on your performance. I miss it - and I don't just mean the performance, there may be some things that can be said, but also in your work - some concepts, some visions for culture, something new that you promised before the elections, after all. We met in some of the debates before the elections, there were lots of interesting ideas that weren't wiped out. None of this is just coming, and I'm a little bit sorry, because we people who do culture and do it, we can finally agree on a lot of things and we have been able to support it. I will just take at random some tax letters or, for example, a reduction in admissions to subscribing organizations, such as the National Gallery, youth museums under the age of 15 or 18. This is the idea that fell before the elections, we all nodded how interesting it is, because it's not just that we have - now I'm going to set the example of the National Gallery, but it applies to everything else - fantastic collections and exhibitions, but somebody has to figure it out. And it can't just be for the top ten grand. But most importantly, I think that we should mediate cultural values and allow young people. Why don't we get back to it at this time? Okay, the government doesn't want to increase parental leave, but let's remember today, when a family goes to the National Gallery for a fundraiser, two adults, two children, they'll pay 800 crowns for it. If one parent is on a parental allowance that is not rising, today inflation, all costs are rising, less and less people can afford it. You have the means, the apparatus, you could do an analysis of what happens when this happens, it would mean income, how many of these young people go to these fund-raiser organizations at all. So I'd like to call you on this, too, to avoid new contributions and to come up with new ideas. Believe me, if it's good and interesting, we'll definitely support them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u33	Thank you. Thank you and now, Madame Mrs. Jana Mračková Vildumetzová will prepare herself. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u34	I'll use those two minutes to ask the Minister. Minister, how do you feel about Minister Stanjura's basically wanting to make admissions to the theaters more expensive by moving the VAT rates? I think it's another nail in the coffin, another nail in the coffin financing culture. I know you're laughing. I'm sure the directors of the theaters and the relevant organizations are also laughing when they see the fall in their budgets.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u35	Thank you. Now, Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová and the President will be prepared Excellent subsequently. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u36	Thank you for your word. I saw Mr Bartošek, Mr Vice-President coming, so I thought he was going to come forward with a fact that he was going to apologize for his statement that he had here yesterday that he couldn't open up the debate. We all knew that it was impossible at 12 o'clock, and at 7 o'clock it would be possible if he had given a reason that there was therefore no agreement between the chairmen of the parliamentary clubs. But it is always about the President, it is up to him when the debate opens. And I really consider it very unfair, and I would like to point out here now, Mr. Culture Minister, that this is exactly what it might have looked like, that I could have responded to the Minister of the Interior immediately, and I probably wouldn't have applied to the debate. I think it's the right thing to do, and it could have been a far more effective thing to do. I would like to speak to the Minister of Culture - because my colleague Mrs Balaštíková says she doesn't ask questions, I asked the question here, you didn't answer it. I would love for you to tell me how much funding the current government has given to the Karlovy Vary Region to restore the Imperial Spa. It's a very simple question, and I'd really like you to answer it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u37	Thank you. And I am of the opinion that the Minister has been logged in in order for a long time. Now, Mr. Chairman. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u38	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear Government, my colleagues, when I applied for my factual opinion, I had no idea that I would also link it to the reaction, through you, to my colleague Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová. I'm sorry, I have to repeat the words of Vice-President Bartošek and defend him. He said it exactly right. Unfortunately, you don't know the rules of procedure. And I'll tell you the reason. Those applications with priority rights of the members of the Government have been submitted with a clear written statement that this is an application with priority right before the opening of the debate. Exactly in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And if anyone or your Vice-Presidents were in charge of this meeting, they would have to do the same. Well, just to be clear, if you didn't get this information, I'm telling you. That's how it is, and there's no other way. We actually reached an agreement with your President, Mrs Alena Schillerová, tonight, and we have moved on differently from this evening. But tonight was after the club president's agreement. There was no other way before. But I applied, I wanted to respond to my point of fact, through you, to my colleague Juchelka. I am very pleased that the President and the Election Committee have considered the issue of disinformation, which is part of the great hybrid threats, and that the committee will be interested in this. I'm just sorry that the Prime Minister here is obviously using something that isn't true for political conflict, and I don't even suspect that he doesn't know. He knows very well, of course. There's no law on misinformation, it's not written. The government has opened the subject, but it is not negotiated at the expert level or at the coalition political level. So I'm sure it's a good thing that you're going to deal with this, the subject of inviting a government agent, ministers at committee meetings, that's what committees are really meant to do, that's what they're meant to do. However, Prime Minister, don't say anything about the government having written a law... [[President: Through me.]] And he's gonna put muzzles in here or something, 'cause that's not true. Thank you so much for the fair discussion here at the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u39	Once again, I ask you to address me through me. Thank you. And now, Mr Juchelka. Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u40	Yes, thank you very much. I will, of course, also respond to Mr Výborný, my honourable colleague, through you. You know, we learned a little bit about what the government's media agent is preparing during Christmas. And I think that this has made it difficult not only for all Members who really respect democratic values, but also for the journalistic community, who is really trying to give the information objectively, balanced, as she feels and what their professional honour is. You have to settle that with you, because at the moment, when the information - and it was really scandalous - came to light, immediately the spokesperson for the Office of the Government Mr. Smolka took reverse and said: No, no, no, no, all that, as you say at this time, Mr. Výborný, is just a work version and so on. But it didn't look like it was the first time. For the first time, it was just Mr. Klima's stuff. He's presenting the material to the government, and it should approve it, because that's the way it is. So, of course, I'm glad that under the pressure of the public, under the pressure of the opposition and under my pressure, this has changed here, this opinion here, and we can finally start discussing it. But what came out as facts, 50 million, 100 million, criminal order and so on, not the Disinformation Act, I'm sorry, so we could actually read it, it really wasn't refuted. And of course we could have found this in the so-called work material. Of course, I understand and understand your argument, but you are the ones who started to trample, as I say, on one of the great values of democracy, and that is freedom of speech. And now that we've got the first self-censoring stage here, we should all be Democrats all the more sensitive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u41	Thank you for keeping time. And now it's time for the Minister and his two minutes for a series of questions. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u42	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, I'm glad you appreciate the fact that I'm ready to discuss this, but I'm gonna have to apologize now to join the government. So only at a speed of three reactions. I, Mrs Pokorná Jermanová, through the Vice-President, did not smile at the fact that admission should be expensive. I would like to stress that in no way do I want to speculate on any proposals that are being made, it is always worth commenting only on decisions and conducting those negotiations. I, Madame, was smiling - I therefore hate to say this, but I will say this - unfortunately, as traditionally in your performance something was not right simply because, for example, the contribution organisations of my ministry are exempt from VAT in their main activity. So any increase in activity wouldn't affect them. I'm just saying, you're turning to me as a minister, so I want to finish. As regards Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová's questions. The Ministry provided support of 400 million at the Imperial Spa. I consider this support final. Secretary Schillerová's Department of Finance... Unfortunately, Minister Schillerová and your government forgot to fulfill another important commitment. In the first half of 2018, Minister Ilja Šmíd signed a memorandum on the support of the concert hall in Ostrava. And I have decided that the project, which, by the way, participates in the city of Ostrava, which is headed by the Mayor of the ANO movement Tomáš Macura, and the Moravian-Silesian Region, which is headed by the Governor for the YES by Professor Vondrák, will support the sum of 600 million crowns, which has not been fulfilled by you. So this unique project wasn't supported, so I'm paying it back. And without any political connection. I'm just adding it, but I thought it was necessary to deliver this thing. And I just want to point out that Mrs Levko is holding a seminar on a public cultural institution, so, Madam... [[Time.]] Humble Jermanová, I'm sure you'll come and ask questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u43	Thank you. And now, therefore, the room for factual, in response to the debate, for Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová. Mrs Pokorná Jermanová will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u44	So I'm going to take the last reaction at this point. Thank you for your answer. The answer is that the government put zero crowns of national cultural monuments in the structurally affected region, the Karlovy Vary Region, at the Imperial Spa. That's the answer, and that's the truth. I would just like to say that the Karlovy Vary Region has a budget, with a tax revenue of around 3 billion. If it has to give 1 billion out of its budget for restoring this national cultural monument, it will have a huge impact on citizens, because there will be no funding for other areas such as social, health and so on. I think this government was supposed to face it, and it was supposed to put more money in it when it came up with the idea that a unique concert hall would still be made. At this point, allow me to respond to Mr. Výborný. I must say, he spoke relatively correctly. I have to raise that tone in some way. But, Mr President, you know very well why the applications were made and why it was written... that you would sign up, through Madam President, with priority rights. [[President: Through me.]] [[He speaks very strongly.]] The reason was that our president of the club came to you and said that if there were so many of you logged in, so that zippers would be made, first of all. And secondly, to open the debate! And you were looking for a way... [[The President responds to the increased volume of the speeches, and the Member speaks more calmly.]] ...how to bypass it. And the way you found it was by handing over the chair of the ticket meeting that you wrote that you applied with priority rights before opening the debate. You were simply looking for a way not to open the debate. I consider this unfair, and I think that this debate should have just been opened. And I still stand by the fact that it's in the chair. And the last reaction, Madam President, now that you have reminded me. [[You're out of time, you can...]] I'm out of time, I'm gonna log in again, and I'm gonna respond to your progress.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u45	I would ask very much for some emotionally tense speeches to maintain some milder vocal intensity. And now with the de facto Mrs Pokorná Jermanová. Minister Baxa will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u46	Minister, I know, of course, that your contribution organizations are exempt from VAT. But there are other organizations in the system that do private business. They are commercial theatres, commercial concert halls and other galleries and there they will be greatly touched. So that's it. And about the seminar. I'm going to attend, and I'm going to say that on March 1, I'm going to have my seminar where all the actors, where there won't be a selective selection of performers, performers, and where we'll be happy to discuss your secret law, which is a lot, a lot of fog and no reality, with you. I hope you'll accept our invitation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u47	I also thank you both for the time and peace of mind. Now, Minister, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u48	Thank you. When Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová said that this government was with the structurally affected Karlovy Vary Region and so on, I say that this government in the field of culture will give 600 million crowns in support of the construction of the concert hall in Ostrava. So let's compare the expenses. And Mrs Pokorná Jermanová, through the Vice-President, I was unable to finish my previous contribution. Mrs Levko is holding an expert seminar on a public cultural institution where all relevant information is heard. And as far as you're saying, the so-called secret bill, I'll just remind you that before Christmas, there was a session at my ministry for almost three hours, or over two hours, a tripartite session, where, above all, representatives of trade unions asked very detailed questions about this bill. Then they sent a large written material, which we will evaluate and use. So just to keep the secret information out of the picture. I fully honor you, Madame, your right to speak to my department, the debate is part of it, but you're always missing a piece of the conclusion, just a little bit of the true addition out there somewhere, and I do honor it, and I'll always be happy to respond to it. Thank you, colleagues, for this discussion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u49	Thank you for keeping time. Now, President Alena Schillerová, then she is signed up, again with the facts, Mr Zlínský. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u50	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I also appreciate, Minister, that you are the only member of the government, and I appreciate that which has the courage and responds to us here, so that needs to be underlined. To do this quickly, as far as the Karlovy Vary Region, the Imperial Spa, everything Jana Mračková Vildumetzová said, is perfectly fine, but even the concert hall in Ostrava was in some order and you allocate the money as needed at the moment. This means that when the project documentation was being prepared there, there was a small amount going on, but we were counting in some perspective. It can't be that you're going to be kicking your lap out, but you have to go on with the projects you started, and you just have to deal with them, just like we did. And plus VAT. Of course, I'd rather discuss it with the finance minister, but he was supposed to be at Ecofin, as he told me on Friday, and eventually he showed up here tonight after the debate, and he didn't even get off. But, of course, the VAT is going to be a big problem, and they're going to start turning to you because private theatres, cinemas, and so on, people don't come, they're starting to save. And if you give them the punch that they're gonna go at a 10% rate, I don't know where, about twenty-one, I think it's gonna be really final. And yet you're going to deal with it, even if it goes primarily to the Minister of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u51	Thank you. Mr Vladimír Zlínský, Mrs Pokorná Jermanová will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u52	Madam President, thank you for the floor. I'd like to comment on the misinformation. I have already intersected the Prime Minister here on this question, and I was very interested in the answer to where the paradise of freedom of speech actually ends and disinformation hell begins. So far, I have not learned the answer to this question. And I think that until this is answered, any speculation about what it is is misinformation and what it isn't is completely unnecessary. And then the second thing about the government not working on anything like that is the law on misinformation. I don't know how to tell jokes, so I'm sorry, that wouldn't sound right, but find a joke on the Internet called chroust by Vladimír Jiránek. When you look at the cartoon, read how it turned out that the crunches were almost cold. Then you'll understand that there's a connection to the current situation that the government is not working on any law to suppress misinformation, if there's no connection to the joke. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u53	Thank you. With the de facto Mrs Pokorná Jermanová, then Mrs Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u54	The minister had to leave for the government meeting, but I'm sure he'll hear it. I have to say, I think I'm gonna take back my words for the introduction that he's an actor in the role of Minister of Culture. I think he's an amateur, and he's very miserable. I've already met him at a meeting so many times that if he doesn't have arguments and twisting the facts in his submission isn't enough, then personal invectives are coming. Mr. Secretary, you're not here, but I'm sending it to the galleys. You won't offend me, because I've had experience. And the fact that I'm telling the truth, you don't like it, I can live with it, but I'm sure the insults or any hints about my knowledge aren't appropriate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u55	Thank you, too, for keeping time. Now, Secretary Helena Langšádlová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u56	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Surely each of us cares about freedom of speech and freedom of speech, what is said where is truly one of the rare elements of democracy. But it is also necessary to realize what is happening on social networks, how algorithms work, how data is abused, and how it causes targeted dissemination of some information and what it does to our society. That is why this problem is really defined as one of the hybrid threats. When I spoke here a few years ago about Russia's involvement in this area, it is really proven that there were troll farms that targeted our society well. And today, when we look at the information on how the demonstrations, which were supported in the autumn, from the Chinese side, were supported, it can be said that some misinformation and its dissemination may have the character of military operations, not only in the Czech Republic, but also in other democratic countries. I don't want to demonize it, but if we don't realize what's going on around us and how it affects our society, it's going to have extremely destructive consequences. But, of course, the first step must be education for media literacy, civic education, but the prerequisite for a solution is to talk about the problem at all, describe it and be aware of what we are facing today, because it is reality. This is also being addressed at the level not only of the European Union but also of the North Atlantic Alliance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u57	Thank you for keeping time and for responding effectively to the debate. Mr Zlínský is now, and I am aware that I have subsequently signed up with the facts and then I will pass on the proceedings to my colleague for a moment. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u58	Thank you for the floor. As for the algorithms that somehow affect public opinion, that's what I would sign. Now, of course, the question is who decides how these algorithms will be used. It will certainly not only be a matter of some Chinese or Russian influence, but let us be aware of who controls the main social networks. So let's look at it from this point of view. Otherwise, I'd be very careful to say that China was running some demonstrations. It's a surprise for me, that's the first time I've ever heard of it. We were told that demonstrations were pro-Russian trolls, so I assumed that Rus were in charge rather than Číňan. Of course, when we hear such information, it should be supported by some concrete evidence. And then, of course, we can talk about it in some way more detail. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u59	Thank you. Now, with a factual remark, Vice-President Richterová is registered. Please, you have the floor, Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u60	Thank you very much. I take advantage of this opportunity to respond to the debate and thank you for allowing my colleague to do so. Because it just touched me very personally. A few years ago, when she was spread about me in person with my photograph of a fictional false quote of a lie. This is a case of misinformation, a case that ultimately in the finals, it was about imaginary apartments for migrants, has somehow been reflected in the election campaign of the head of the largest opposition movement here in the House. Even after the election, Mr. Andrej Babiš admitted that it was a bit of a fantasy thing with the migrants in the cottage. Not a little bit, that was a complete invention. I won a final trial last week against the possibility of spreading lies about people, with the lady who was spreading the complete fantasy about me. She knew it, it was conscious, and it was very dangerous. Those threats of violence, vulgarity, really things, I wouldn't wish for anyone at all, because they're something that's multiplied with social networks. But it's always been present, they've always mixed some passions based on untruths. I'd just like to remind you of the known phenomenon of the public crowd lynch in the past. So lies and misinformation can trigger things like that. The key thing is: a lie is not an opinion. So I want to encourage everyone to think about it - when you spread information to see if you have it verified. And when we're talking about some abstract freedom of speech here to realize that it's also a very specific thing. Responsibility for what we say, as well as responsibility for the fact that there is also responsibility for freedom. [[President: Time, Madam Vice-President.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u61	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mrs Maříková. Madam, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u62	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I would respond to Secretary Langšádlová and also to Vice-President Richterová. Let's not confuse the lie and the information shifted in time, please. No one is certain to approve of the Vice-President, through Madam President, of spreading on social networks of lies and of threatening you or anyone else. If it's a proven lie, let's call it a lie. But I'm going to give you an example. Yesterday at CNN Prima News, Professor Prymula spoke openly about how the covid-19 virus came from the lab. I remember two years ago when someone said that, he was called the last government and other experts that he was a heavy disinformer. So let's call things real names. When it comes to lying, let's call it a lie, no one will approve of spreading lies about someone on social media and threatening them. But if we can't back up the information, whether it's true or false, then we can't call it misinformation. It's just information shifted over time, just like it was in this case, which I set here as an example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u63	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Juchelka. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u64	Thank you very much. Only to the honored one, Mrs. Vice-President Richterová. Madam Vice-President, you in the media always use information that somehow shifts. At this point, you're facing a civil suit against one of the organizations you've been spreading lies and misinformation about on CNN Prima News, proven. You didn't check it out. So did Secretary Langšádlová, who apologized for it because she had the height and the perspective and she apologized for the misinformation. And you've been spreading this here, that's the first thing. The second thing in particular. You yourself have spread disinformation on your Twitter about whether wind fall tax will be paid or not to pay for 2022, and the Prague Stock Exchange has swinged by CZK 31 billion. You, as one of the highest constitutional officials, have just used this Twitter here, or this tweet simply and simply without any thought whatsoever, without which I would say insight and respect for any information as such. You simply and simply made a mess for a few hours at the Prague Stock Exchange. So if you're here in some way advocacy for always telling the truth and not lying about moving that information, I'd really like it, and I really appreciate you not doing the same thing and jumping on what you hear somewhere and forwarding it. You know why? Because you are indeed the esteemed Vice-President of the honourable Chamber of Deputies, and it does not suit. You're not one of the disinformers, so please don't jump in and be her.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u65	Thank you for keeping time. Another point of fact is made by Mr Lang. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u66	Thank you, Madam President. I would also like to respond to the Vice-President of the House, Mrs Richterová. When we talk about some disinformation and dissemination of some narratives, the verified information from your coalition partner's Twitter Twitter, a member of the Prague ODS, a well-known figure, Pavel Novotný. I would quote that because it's really interesting for people to get an idea of what coalition partners you have when you're moralizing us here. [[He's reading from his cell phone.]] I wouldn't mind mobilizing and sending our sons to Ukraine. I volunteered and helped as they tried and tried to help all decent and normal people. So there's a war - he says, so there's a war - and neighbors are supposed to help each other. I was the voter of Andrej Babiš for Ukrainians instantly traded. [[I'd like to]] [[voters]] So he says - I would vote for Andrej Babiš, meaning two million Czech citizens, immediately traded for Ukrajinec or 18-year-old Syřan coming with iPhones, or possibly even murderers. That's a lovely statement. Beautiful expression of a coalition partner. And I was wondering if there's really a reaction when you're talking about someone spreading some disinformation around here. This is verified information from today's Twitter. Mr. Novotný then withdrew it because he found out he overshot, but of course he's already living his own life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u67	Thank you. Another point of fact is registered by Vice-President Richterová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u68	Thank you. Once again, I would like to emphasise what is going on - that a lie is not an opinion, and it often comes out just after long years of court proceedings, as it is exactly. I have now experienced an end to such a lawsuit, where it has simply proved clear and the court has also stated that it is very dangerous when someone is spreading lies and misinformation. It has shown that a lie has been spread about me. And what I want to stress, unfortunately, in those social networks it is very common that such things happen, including calls for violence, including things that would be unthinkable in personal contact. I would also like to point out that, unfortunately, the total lie that the Chairman of the ANO movement actually spread in the course of his campaign before the parliamentary elections about some migrants to the cottages, I stress that it was a complete lie and fiction, even after the election he himself acknowledged that about 45 per cent of the Čech believed this lie. That's how it worked out in a survey. So almost half the nation. I want to stress that. That's crazy stuff. On the contrary, someone doesn't like something I say about him. I am perfectly in line with the fact that I want it to go through the evidence again. I'm just convinced that I didn't say anything wrong at all, that I just care about staying a liberal society, a society where an opinional conflict is possible, and a society where the difference between political struggle and spreading total lies about opponents is not being erased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u69	Thank you for keeping time. Another point of fact is made by Mr Zlínský. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u70	Madam President, thank you for the floor. We're a little in the circle because I still don't see how to distinguish a deliberate lie from a mistake because you don't have enough information, that you just don't have the capacity mentally to understand or accept the information. Where's the line on finding her? And then the question is, if these people are going to start punishing each other because then we're going to create here, I'm going to say it maybe superbly, like brutally self-censoring, that people are going to be afraid of anything they don't have a hundred times verified, publicized. I think that this will fundamentally affect the imagination and creativity, which, unfortunately, sometimes develops in a way that is inappropriate, but on the other hand, sometimes develops to be appropriate. [[11.10 hours]] As for Vice-President Richterová, I confess that sometimes when I see an attack on her in my social bubble, I find it unpleasant and disgusting, too. So this is what I would apply for, that I myself have been subjected to such attacks. As politicians, we must get used to it, even if it is very difficult. So in this, I would say that, as politicians, we have a challenge, and we must have greater resilience, as the European Union would have told us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u71	Well, thank you for keeping time. I'm going back to the meeting. Thank you so much, my colleague. And now, with Mr Patrik Nacher in fact. Mr Radek Vondráček is also registered. So Patrik Nacher is in the room, coming up. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u72	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I listened carefully, and it didn't make me react, because you know that the topic of fighting disinformation and the onset of censorship is that I'm here to do what he wants. I even wanted to include the government's information on what it's preparing, unfortunately, you didn't include it in the program. I've been intersecting the Prime Minister. This was historically the first written interpelation in this parliamentary term. But you, Madam Vice-President, have recorded for me. You set an example here for judging. So what you're actually showing is that the system works. Nobody's defending this place from spreading lies, proven lies. When someone spreads a lie, you defend yourself, you can sue, you can file criminal charges, personality protection against slander, and so on. You get to court and you win. It's okay. I've been rumored that I picked up drapes in a central warehouse somewhere, that was on Facebook. Imagine, and then I handed them out in senior homes. No, I bought them, and then I gave them away. And somebody made it up. I filed a criminal complaint for the first time in my life. And you know what the D.A. said? That we, as politicians, should bear some peace and lies, because we are in public space and we are public officials. So even there was a clear lie, and yet I failed. See, that's the obvious thing. But you're proof that you can. And here I have found - and that the current paragraphs and laws apply to it. I found here seven years old your, as the Pirate Party, opinion - Pirates to set up a task force to combat misinformation: We do not want the Ministry of Truth. So I'd like to ask you, where's the shift, where the pirát suddenly don't mind this, that the Ministry of Truth will be here? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u73	Well, thank you for keeping time. And I'm saying that there's been a full-blown storm of fact here, so I just want everyone to know how it is in order. Now Mr Vondráček, then Mr Radek Koten, Aleš Juchelka, then I and then Mrs Věra Adámková report. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u74	Well, thank you for your word. I'm one of those people who also cares about the subject, so obviously the debate brought me out of my office. And I wanted to thank the Vice-President for what she said here. I sympathize with what she said was a lie not an opinion, the other way around - opinion is not a lie. And I'd really like her to find another minute and repeat it when the Home Secretary is here, and if she tells him. Because I'm following up on what Patrik just said here. If the pirát hold this view, it would be good if you spread it in the coalition and made it clear. I've asked several times last week to include such points. I just wanted to see a clear view of the different coalition parties on how they stand up to the plan to spend, that it takes at least 150 million, that different teams are setting up against the spread of disinformation, which, in fact, will influence public opinion. And since you didn't place that point for us, it's one of those sins that our Madam President here is telling us that led to this meeting. You also said that freedom of speech is an abstract thing. Well, yes and no, because we feel the danger of freedom, freedom of speech every day, and it's not an abstract category. I would like to say that this is, above all, a category of law and, above all, a category which is regulated by the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms and quite a number of decisions of the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights. And the Charter is not only a declaration, but it is a binding document that states that every person has the right to express his opinion in any technical way. That means let's fight the lies. I liked what you said. And please tell Mr. Rakušan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u75	Thank you for keeping time. And now, Mr Radek Koten.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u76	Hello, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. I am like Radek Vondráček, so I was drawn from the office here by the counter, where I listened to all the previous speeches. Reflex magazine wrote about me at the time when there were witch hunts, so that Radek Koten would happen to be chairman of the Security Committee, so that was when Reflex wrote about me that I was a red consistent communist butcher. Now imagine how my friends, my friends, and all that. It wasn't true, of course, because I'm not a butcher, nor was I ever in the Communist Party, nor was I red, nor was I proputinist, as I was said, and I even got a background check. And yet I was accused of being a conspiracy theorist, spreading lies and all that. So where's the line between the truth or some kind of government-specific opinion? I think the truth, and some politician here said that a long time ago, the truth is a government-promoted lie. So how are we supposed to understand that? We'll fight disinformation. Now I'm hearing live here that the pro-Russian trolls may have actually been responsible for the demonstrations on Wenceslas Square, so China has now organized it. I don't know who's lying and who's giving out conflicting opinions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u77	Well, thank you. Now, with a factual remark, Vice-President Richterová is registered. Madam Vice-President, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u78	I thank you once again for allowing the performance to take place. And I really believe that for the last time, I'm just going to sum up what's going on. We live in society at a time when it is simply possible for the head of one major political movement to spread a complete lie about which he would admit, after the election, that he knew that we may have overreacted with the fantasy, as it was in the quote he gave for example, Respekt. And that lie was believed by about 45 percent of our country's citizens, 45 percent of the voters. Why am I stressing this? Because we're in a situation where these things have such a strong impact. I think you all know that. And then sometimes moments happen when someone really spreads something completely personal, and then it's possible to defend themselves. What happened to me, I wouldn't really wish on anyone at all. The point was that my picture, my name, was glued to a fictional statement, and it spread really personal. And when I asked for a withdrawal, because I'm always a defender of decent behavior and enlightenment, it didn't actually withdraw, but it was redistributed, and there was the publication of such an open, very offensive letter repeating the lies. Why am I saying this? That it wasn't merely a spread of lies and fiction, but a really very difficult situation of this kind I would say it was an attack on the part of the disinformation scene. And why is it called that? Because then it's really coordinated. It's something that means a really difficult situation. And it's a threat to freedom of speech. That then people will be afraid to say things that are not the taste of this particular part. And it was the lady who attacked me personally - she claimed to be the Ambassador of the Donetsk Republic. [[Attention on time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u79	Thank you. And now, with a point of fact, Mrs Adámková is registered. Mr Nacher, Minister Langšádlová, Mr Juchelka and Mrs Peštová will then be prepared. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u80	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear government, or parts of government, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that, in particular, my previous speaker said the sentences that are true. I'm glad she said it, I just want to say that I really wish everyone would have been measured by the same subway. Because first, as we heard from the quote here, we weren't supposed to have the Ministry of Truth, at the moment when it's in all due respect - and it's not, I'm behind you, that it was a very difficult situation - to touch someone other than the current opposition, so it's suddenly wrong and it has to be worked out. I would very much like us to realize that misinformation can be about everyone, we also experienced it ourselves two years ago, it's a very unpleasant situation. And here we hear from the Vice-President -- I think she's right -- that there's some statement from the court that showed that she was just in the right. And so I want to appeal to everyone, yes, we live in a state of law, and let's believe it. Why am I finding out more or less below the line here that this one verdict has relevance, but the verdict that has been made recently has to be questioned, or is it said that who knows how it's going to be? So, yes, misinformation is wrong, we have to defend ourselves if it's personal, but please, nicely, so let's trust the courts and let's consider the court's statements the same for everyone. I have a bit of a feeling that this has not been happening lately, especially in the media scene, but unfortunately I have this feeling and I hear it here that some Members are starting to listen to it, too, and I would very much regret that, because I want to appreciate all of my colleagues. So, yes, let's trust the courts and trust them anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u81	Thank you. And now, with Mr Patrik Nacher in fact, then Mrs Helena Langšádlová, then Mr Aleš Juchelka, Mrs Peštová, will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u82	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. So it is obvious that this is indeed a subject that interests Members, so we are responding to it. I didn't quite finish the whole story before, so I split it up to be structured, to different items. Disinformation on politicians, disinformation on social issues in general. So if I take it - misinformation about politicians. You know I stood up for you in that public space. However, this happens to almost everyone, as I read disinformation today and daily, lies about it, I don't know, for example, that someone has prepared a speech for me here, or a colleague who read it here. Or that you're being paid from Agrofert and so on. It's just the order of the day. This is everyday, it's lies, it's misinformation. I only took the liberty of taking advantage of those opportunities to turn to the state's attorney's office once, that was when it really went over the line, about stealing masks. But I'm just saying, this happens to almost everyone. Of course, it depends on the extent, and it decides. It was crossed very significantly with you and no one is defending it. But then it's so-called disinformation about some social issues, some topics. And it's clear here that these things are evolving, that what was disinformation a year ago, somebody was talking about it, like the covido, and where it came from, it turns out that it's true. And it's also about some of the things that are happening in Ukraine, I'm not going to remind you of the situations that at the beginning seemed clear, and then it turned out to be a little different. And here's the thing about politicians being consistent about defending freedom of speech in this case. They just defended it. And I don't care about your inconsistent attitude. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Nothing more, nothing less.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u83	Thank you. And now, Minister Helena Langšádlová, Mr Aleš Juchelka will prepare himself. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u84	Thank you for the floor. I think we need to clarify some concepts. Something else is an opinion, and there we should have mutual respect for a different view. And I can assure you that I have respect for the opinions of others. But something else is the facts. Among such generally known facts is - the Earth is round. And there are no alternative facts. The problem is that sometimes information that contradicts facts is already spreading in that space, and there is talk of alternative facts. There are no alternative facts. And even if part of the population thinks the Earth is flat, it's round. These are facts and there are no alternative facts and there is a need to distinguish views, opinions and facts. I have a great understanding of how this affects the lives of each and every one of us. I also understand what the Vice-President has been through. It's a good example, and we're in the middle of a presidential campaign, but I've repeatedly wanted to point out here that social networks work and algorithms are supported. These work with a lot of data and knowledge about each of us, the information spreads often at multiple speeds and is really well targeted. And today we have new technologies, artificial intelligence, deepfake, and we really need to significantly strengthen media literacy, and we need to realize what kind of tool social networks are becoming and what impact it can have on our society, even that really part of the content as it spreads is not only supported from the Czech Republic, and it can really be an instrument of hybrid action, as is said in many documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u85	Thank you for keeping time. And now, Mr Aleš Juchelka, Mrs Berenika Peštová will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u86	Thank you, too. I will speak here, through the Vice-President, to the Vice-President, because her testimony about her entire trial is really, as Patrik Nacher says, due to the fact that it works. And what you described here exactly, you did exactly to one nonprofit organization. That means that you spoke to her on CNN Prima News, they sent you a letter to apologize, which Mrs. Langšádlová did, you didn't, and you let it go so far as a civil dispute. And you're probably gonna lose that because your opinion isn't based on any facts, it's just a simple lie. And if we are speaking here, and Minister Langšádlová referred to it as alternative facts, then it is necessary to complete the painting that Vice-President Richterová is spreading here, and we have witnessed this, for example, with me when the SPOLU coalition put on its social official network the dehonestation collage of my person, the dehonestation collage of Patrik Nacher, the dehonestation collage of Mrs Schillerová's person. I'm sure we remember when the alternative fact that the coalition of SPOLU officially before the municipal elections, not a year ago or a year ago, and something, put up billboards, fakes, ugly, lying, disgusting billboards, where it compared Babiš to Putin. And you're not saying why you're here all of a sudden, because it's probably from your same opinional wound, you're not criticizing decomunization when we see their disgusting billboard Gustáv Husák, Andrej Babiš. Like, we've really moved forward in a way that you're here to defend only the one side and look so fair, but you're doing it yourself?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u87	Thank you for keeping time. We're in a rather curious situation. Please, Mrs Berenika Peštová, Mr Patrik Nacher, then Mr Zlínský, then I volunteered. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u88	Thank you for your word. I am glad that you, Madam President, have reached that successful goal. I've also filed a criminal complaint, it's been about eight years, on my person (?) when I was accused as an opposition representative of bribing representatives. At that time, I was acting Deputy Minister of the Environment. The police investigated everything, told me the truth, the state's attorney gave me the truth, and now the merry-go-round at the courts started. The first-instance court gave me the truth, I got to the second-instance court, which was the county court, and that's where the barrister's machine started, right, of course, dragging time, the county court returned it to the first-instance court. And world, wonder! Seven years have passed - seven years! - and I don't have an apology. Seven years - the lie that was told about me in the media, in the newspapers, reporters made their careers out of it. I had an interview with the Secretary of State when I had to defend myself for not doing such a thing, as a civil servant, a senior civil servant. So where's the justice? How is it that you came to justice, and after seven years, I got to the fact that it was suspended? Goodbye.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u89	Thank you. Mr Patrik Nacher is now registered and then Mr Vladimír Zlínský. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u90	Thank you. It's not much time in those two minutes, so I'm gonna try another angle. I think what you're experiencing right now, Madam Vice-President, is actually describing that the current situation, that it works. Someone's lying about you, you put him in court, you win. You're lying about someone, it looks like the Alliance for Family is gonna tell you to apologize, you're not gonna apologize, they're gonna put you in court. Let's see what happens. So you see here in practice that it actually - and you're actually a beautiful example that you're on both sides at this point - that it works, that the system works. And all we care about is asking the government to expand. What does he want to spread in relation to the misinformation? Because as you can see, the system, when it goes over the line, it works. Sometimes slowly, maybe not so much in my case, but I'll still get over it. And the second moment that bothers me there is that the pirát were still here in 2016, when the initiative was similar, they were talking about it being the Ministry of Truth and that they didn't agree to it. What has changed since then that suddenly with the Ministry of Truth, in quotes, do you agree? I've always fought this consistently, regardless of whether I was a coalition MP or now a opposition. That's the permanence of politics. That there are some fundamental things to be behind regardless of whether he is a government politician or opposition. [[The left side of the hall is very noisy.]] And I'd like to quite explain that shift from the point of view of the truth department. And one final remark, opinion, facts, on Secretary Langšádlová. Well, who's to say, Madam Secretary, who's to say the facts? If I criticize the government for not doing enough in energy policy, I'll get a label that I'm a pro-Russian troll again. [[Time, time, please!]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u91	Thank you, thank you. Apparently, even the two minutes are short. Please, it's pretty noisy here, so I'm gonna ask really co-workers and co-workers, we're having a lively discussion, that's fine, but let's put her in front of the microphone. Let's just wait a little bit longer and keep this quiet, so my colleague has some room. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u92	Madam President, thank you for the floor. I dare to respond to Minister Langšádlová, through you. First of all, I'm going to mention the problem with the flatness or roundness of the Earth, which is a fairly simple fact that is widely accepted. Unfortunately, our current reality is quite complex, so for this reason, many citizens are unable to navigate in some way and then make mistakes, and let's say misinformation. Well, that's the reaction to this thing. And then I'd like to respond to the other thing, and that's the hybrid effect. Of course, I don't have the evidence, because I don't work in secret services, I can only observe what's happening on social media. But I don't think Russia, China - all of them - are hybrid. All who have data, all who have algorithms, and all who have those channels, how they influence the population that they want to manipulate in some way. So let's get some pure wine. We're getting closer, or we're already living in some data company, and whoever owns the data, basically takes it away from us, somehow using artificial intelligence to process it. And if he knows the psychology of the crowd, the psychology of society, he can manipulate this society quite effectively to achieve his goals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u93	Thank you, and another point of fact is prepared by Mrs Richterová and Vice-President. Mr. Mašek will be ready. Madam Vice-President, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u94	Thank you so much. Ladies and gentlemen, I am simply trying to treat it as a matter of fact that, in the vast majority of cases, lies, fictions, things that aren't true can be said. But then there will be situations where you find out, and I think it happened to a lot of you, and so it happened to me that some people just don't take opinion discussions and actually keep going on and on and on and on about spreading lies. And that's the problem. This is how the Pirát were spread a lie about some absurd migrants to the cottages - I just point out that it was an absurd lie, but almost half the nation believed it. And this, unfortunately, is how many countries now and not completely far away work. And here I am going to stress one thing: we had a round table, an expert hearing on Hungary, an information space in Hungary, where almost 500 litigations have already lost the media state or generally pro-government, because it simply spread lies about different people. And I want to point out here that almost no one will ever know about these apologies and lost feuds. And even though there is a legitimate debate here today about who was hurt and felt damaged - and I know that my case was exceptional in that there really was some kind of escalation of the lies, so on the basis of that, the court recognised the legitimacy, or at least I think it recognized the social hazard - so I just want to point out that no one here, in my opinion, is aware of the fact that, for example, in nearby Hungary, disinformation is already spreading in the public media or connected to the state. [[Time!]] And even if the courts admit it, it doesn't change anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u95	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Mašek. Vice-President Havlíček will be ready. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u96	Madam President, colleagues, I would like to comment here on the disinformation. You've all been talking about your stories, how many years of your life it's taken, how many moods it's taken you and all that. I would like to remind you of one thing that was also mentioned here, and that was the question of posting the billboard, where Gustáv Husák and Andrej Babiš were depicted, and it was said, in fact, this man by the President, there was trampled on the right of Slovák, a citizen of the Czech Republic, to run for president. The Decomunization Association is behind this. . And I would like to remind you that the same association was behind the collage at the Ministry of the Interior, long discussed here, and that Mr. Rakušan admitted that he was cooperating with this association, and also in cooperation with the KRIT group then established, which we did not yet know anything about, which was to monitor and influence opinions, opinion levels in the state administration. So it's a problem that, unfortunately, goes a lot higher. The problem that points to this link, which Mr Rakušan, as Minister of the Ministry of Power, admitted. ♪ And she admitted it ♪ ♪ Decomunization. ♪ who said she really created the collage for the Home Secretary back then. And I'm going to ask that question, and I'm going to want to answer from the Minister if this cooperation continues, because then it's coming to a completely different level. Then it's not the disinformation of individuals on faces, but then it's an organized event from the Ministry of the Interior position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u97	Thank you. Mr Karel Havlíček and Mr Havlíček are also reporting. [[Foldyna]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u98	Yes, hello. So a number of Members have said some disinformation about them. There's been some major misinformation going on with me for years. Not only with me, but even with my dog, because there's a collage on the Internet, a photo montage of my picture with my dog, and he's got this plate in his teeth, and it says, "Help! He walks me at 3:00 in the morning." with an obvious reference to me getting up early. Which is misinformation, because I walk it at 4:30. [[Laughs in the hall.]] It touches me, it touches my dog, even to such an extent that the dog doesn't sleep anymore. So I'm glad that the government is actually implementing this disinformation model of the prosecution, because according to the government's proposal, the spreader of the misinformation at this point should be brought to justice, which is what I'm happy about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u99	Thank you for something between a fact and a joke. And now, please, Mr. Foldyna.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u100	Thank you. I'd like to speak to you, Madam Vice-President. Now I don't know how to do this right now to say it so I don't touch you. You're always arguing with Hungarian. You're constantly arguing with Maďarsko and Mr Orbán. Who determines what is and is not true? Recently, it was said that there was no petrol or oil in Hungary. I went all the way through Hungary from the Serbian border to the Slovak border, and there was petrol all over the highway. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Who determines? The Soros Foundation determines who's right, isn't it? What is it? You constantly pick on Hungary and Orbán - and what do you build on what is and is not true? Who told you that? A lie can only be refuted by truth and not by institutions and some nonprofits that are paid from who knows where. There's just a two-way disinformation and information campaign going on here, and that's the only thing that can be defeated by the truth. And I'd like to ask you, who told you they were lying in Hungary? How did you figure that out?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u101	Thank you, too, and since we no longer have any more enrolled in this debate, I will ask another one, and this is Minister Zdeněk Nekula, to follow this thematic block with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u102	Madam President, dear Member, honourable Members, just a short start: whoever waits will see it. So it came to me. It's been about a year since I stood at this counter to tell you what I plan to do as Minister of Agriculture. Since then, the resort has faced many challenges within the food industry, agricultural production, water management, forestry and the like, which I will talk about later. We are here today because the opposition is trying to express distrust of the government. The government I'm a member of. The government, which, as a result of the decision of the previous government, was faced with a very difficult situation. The government, which is currently dealing with one of the worst inflations in the history of the Czech Republic and which has to look every day for solutions to help the most needed. And it is this government that will now have to postpone the resolution of our citizens' problems and deal with this opposition proposal, which, by coincidence, came in the inter-election time for the election of the new head of state, where the leader of the opposition has also signed up. I would like to begin by reminding myself once again that, as a government, we took over this country in a state of huge growth in state debt, digitalisation was carried out lethargicly, governance was neglected, populism was promoted from a political point of view to a movement of almost sectarian faith. Yes, in this state, we took over the leadership of this country after the time when Mr Andrej Babiš, an absent Member, ruled. In preparing today's performance, I looked at the materials I had at my disposal a year ago. It was like reading historical books. Energy crises everywhere and rising inflation. How the world has changed for us. Some priorities have been backed up, others, but new ones have emerged. That's just the way life goes. Before I recapitulate the individual items of the government's programming statement, which I will show you, dear Members and honourable Members, that our government in the Department of Agriculture is fulfilling what it has promised, I will first allow myself to have a small agricultural-economic frame. You may remember that less than a year ago, one of the agro-food tycoons terrified the public here by costing 200 crowns and who knows if it will be and what will happen. A year he met with a year, and behold, I see that bread costs about 45 crowns in shops. Yes, it's not enough, no doubt. But we have 15 percent inflation in the year-on-year comparison, so the price is unfortunately in the session and no shot to the heights of 200 crowns for bread did not occur. Yes, we have a significant increase in dairy products, flour, pastries, a little less expensive is seen in meat, but as a chapter in general, food is at the forefront of rising prices. It doesn't make me happy at all. However, let us not forget that we have another record player in price growth, and this is natural gas, namely electricity, where we have, or during last year we had multiples of previous year's prices, and the arrival of this year with the help of more favourable weather means a sharp drop in spot energy prices. The market is slowly exiting the panic that has been here and which has proven to have screwed up the price of energy. This will gradually start to project into a decline in food prices. Our government has put energy prices on the table for businesses and households. Each food farmer and farmer now knows what he can count on, and that was not possible for much of last year. Why do I say that? We all see where the price of fuel is now coming from. I expect similar developments for agricultural commodity and food prices. Since the beginning of the year, the spot price of energy has been deep below the government ceiling, so production calculations must be made and there is room for a slight drop in prices so far. Let's keep our fingers crossed. To sum up last year, therefore, the criminal Russian aggression against the Ukrainian nation caused panic on the European food market. As always in history, this has been reflected in prices. Today, the panic mark-up leaves us because we see that, despite all the efforts to corner Europe, Putin has failed and obviously fails. We can manage without his gas, and the situation is starting to calm down. And we have overcome all of this without interference with VAT on food, and we do not bear on our shoulders the costs of unclaimed taxes that have affected Poland's, Hungary's or other countries' budgets. It turns out our reaction was correct. In a panic, we kept a cool head, helped with the necessary direct social assistance, and with crucial steps we waited until the situation calmed down. By doing so, we have averted the intimidating consequences of a rash reaction. And now let's go to the specific points of our programming statement. We promised that we would benefit from ecologically managed farmers and smaller companies. And it did. We have increased the share of redistributive payments for direct payments from 10 to 23 per cent, which means a larger share of smaller farmers in total aid. And it's not just about this big system change. We're doing a number of other, smaller steps. For example, for projects financed from Union sources, we have introduced fruit and milk into schools a mandatory, at least 10% share of organic products. The fact that we have increased the share of co-financing of resources from the Rural Development Programme to 65 percent helps to further support the sector, and we are thus unique both in the history of the Czech Republic and among other Member States. We create conditions for smaller farms, but not only for them, to prefer the ecological method of production, and this also pays off financially. The market is here and we will continue to support it. [[11.50 hours]] Similarly, we also proceed with investment subsidies. This year, for the first time, we will introduce that the applicant for an investment grant from the Rural Development Programme or from the Support and Guarantee Rural and Forestry Fund will have to demonstrate that at least 30% of the income comes from agricultural production, even at the level of linked enterprises. Our support must go where agriculture, forestry or fisheries form a substantial part of economic activity. Together with this, we are working continuously to reduce bureaucratic burdens. We are aware that the overload of papers limits time to our own business. Therefore, within the limits of the European Commission, we are constantly reviewing the requirements for checks and proof so as to ensure economical treatment not only of Union resources, but at the same time not to bother the applicant more than is really necessary. Hand in hand with it goes bigger digitization of the resort. I believe that at the end of this term it will already be clear how substantial steps we have taken in this regard. For example, let's say the LIPPIS, one of the basic information tools for payment of agricultural subsidies, or the Farmer's Portal. Not only do we want the system to be more automatic and the data that it can obtain from other sources, it does not want the applicant, but at the same time we want farmers to use it for their activities and control of revenues and the like. Already with the Farmer Portal, the report automatically leaves for the Czech Statistical Office. And we're moving on. Another important part of our strategy is to limit the use of various chemical resources in farming. Precision agriculture has a bright future, and today even more than ever before. We used to pressure farmers to reduce their consumption of pesticides and fertilisers, thereby helping to protect the soil, protect the water, protect the animals. Today, the rise in the price of chemical resources, due to the sharp rise in energy prices, has caused farmers themselves to call for such restrictions because they want them to save money. And we're ready to help them. We will support their investment in precision agriculture technologies. I believe, and I bet you that this year's decline in sales of various fertilisers and pesticides, by applying them to soil and plants, will be more pronounced than any decrease in production. We have also been active in this regard within the framework of the Presidency in the European Union. Under the Green Agreement, we have started a process at which there will be a significant reduction in the use of these funds by 2030, but in a fair way. We also want to protect the soil by continuously increasing its share of the environmental management regime. Today, we're at 16 percent of the land area registered in LISP. By 2027 we aim to increase this share by 5 percentage points to the final 21 percent, i.e. about one fifth of the agricultural land will be managed in accordance with the principles of organic farming. This is a measure that has long been illusory, and it is the undisputed success of this government, which really means its care for the environment and for other generations. We are discussing the introduction of organic food into public and school food and food consumption from the nearest school surroundings, which is reflected in the Action Plan for Organic Agriculture by 2027. In the framework of the Food Act, the Act on Public Procurement has also been amended in a way that will contribute to the application of local food from local producers on the Czech market. We are also, of course, good at protecting soil that is not managed under ecological schemes. For example, we reduced the size of the soil block to 10 hectares in highly endangered soils. We will definitely say goodbye to endless fields in our territory. The Ministry of Agriculture supports modern technologies and practices not only in the form of precise agriculture in plant production but also in the field of livestock production. In 2022 genotyping was ensured in the historically highest number of animals. This makes it possible to increase animal breeding efficiency. With the help of this tool, Czech breeders manage to reduce the amount of antibiotic medicines used in breeding and thus significantly contribute to the reduction of antimicrobial resistance in the human population. The Czech Republic is significantly below the European Union average with an antibiotic consumption of 50 mg per unit of production. Czech antibiotic consumption in animal production is three times lower than in Italy, Hungary or Spain thanks to our breeders and support from the Ministry of Agriculture. The construction of new biogas stations and the production of second generation biofuels will be supported in the future. Biogas stations primarily process waste materials such as manure, manure, plant residues, biodegradable municipal waste, sewage sludge and, of course, the technologically necessary proportion of targeted biomass. Biogas stations produce biogas, which can serve as a renewable substitute for imported natural gas after conversion to biomass. For biogas raw materials, the European Union Directive on Renewable Resources has been introduced sustainability criteria. The need to accelerate the development of biomass production as a substitute for natural gas from Russia results, among other things, from the European Commission's REPower EU strategy and from the amended directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on renewable energy sources and is also supported by the European Union's energy taxonomy. And like many of you, I am convinced that the era of dependence on Russia in the field of fuel is definitely gone. Therefore, we will work intensively to make our agriculture a helping hand and become a source of a certain share of fuel consumption in the Czech Republic. It is never too late to start, and today we are even more determined to see the monstrous acts and war terrors of Ukraine caused by our once dominant supplier of fossil fuels. No, we certainly don't want to pay money to a purse that finances atrocities and sends its own people to almost certain deaths. And let's go from land to land. Land modifications are also at the heart of our interests. Through them, we bring windbreaks into the landscape, reduce soil susceptibility to erosion, try to retain water in the landscape, restore field roads and more. Remember, when you drive around our beautiful country, a new tree line appears here and there, a new water tank on the creek. All this is practically a reflection of the landscaping that our resort is behind, and it is the work of my colleagues, the work that we do not do for ourselves, but we do it for our children, so that we can deliver our country to them in better condition than we have received it from our parents. [[12.00 hours]] For example, only last year we invested CZK 2 billion in land adjustments. But we want more, and that is why we are trying to propose an amendment to the Act on the Protection of the Agricultural Soil Fund, where a large proportion of the levies on set-aside from the Agricultural Soil Fund will go directly to the financing of such land adjustments. That is, if we must remove the land from farming once and for all, then we want the money for its withdrawal to serve solely to improve the condition of another agricultural land. We don't want them to simply disperse in the state budget. Similarly, we need to look at another legacy of the Communist regime, and these are Meliorations. Today, at a time of passing drought, there are still functional meliaration devices in our fields that keep taking such important water away from the field. It's weird, but it still works. And we need to re-map these melioration networks, figure out their functionality, and where they seriously harm the soil, effectively intervene against them. Otherwise, we spend money from one hand to hold water in the countryside, while the water runs out from the other hand, and we just stand by. Together with the Ministry of Environment, we are working to ensure that the industrial and residential development of the Czech Republic goes primarily towards brownfields and soils of the lowest quality. And here I admit, we have to add more. We need to solve historical legal problems that are often associated with these brownfields. These problems often make it impossible for us to use these sites, which are otherwise suitable for the intended activity. I want to believe that our grandsons will only know the concept of brownfield from historical sources. Our resort also supports food banks, which were significantly involved in helping the most needed and at risk last year. We support food banks under the national subsidy programme 18. Last year, almost CZK 100 million of aid was paid out, of which CZK 89 million for operating costs and CZK 11 million for investment. CZK 102 million have already been accepted for the year 2023. I believe, because we have allocated resources for that, that there will be 100% coverage. What does that mean? First of all, we support another pillar of non-financial social support. In the second place, we help to make maximum use of the food produced. Those nearing the end of fitness are transferred to food banks and do not end up in waste. After Mr Havlíček of the ANO movement for decades blocked the approval of an amendment to the Act on Market Power, we successfully implemented this amendment through a legislative process. In this way, we have significantly increased the protection of weaker players on the market, which will not be so easily targeted by the dirty practices of large colosses. Our aim is to set conditions so that market behaviour is fair and does not result in unfair practices. They always end up being taken away by a customer. That is why we have set the rules so that the trade relationship throughout the food chain is transparent. The competition authority can now finally control the entire chain from farmers to food professionals to trade. And now please turn your attention to life-giving fluid, and that's water. Water management is traditionally one of the pillars of our resort and is gaining importance with advancing time. In the long term, we support the revitalization of ponds, the construction of small water tanks, water treatment, sewerage, sewage treatment plants, but in line with long-term concepts we also prepare the construction of large water reservoirs. We are now farther away in the preparation of the waterworks Vlachovice in Zlinsko, where the surrounding municipalities have been longing for decades. Purchases of necessary land, pre-project preparation and related work are ongoing. In this context, government material is being prepared for the approval of the use of a railway train for the transport of material for the construction of the waterworks Vlachovice including financing. We want to take advantage of the fact that the already officially cancelled railway train leads physically to the area of the future dam of the waterworks, which originally served for its infamous military warehouses Vrbětice. The maximum amount of material will thus be attached to the construction of this waterworks by rail. Other reservoirs in preparation are the waterworks Skalička na Bečva, Senomaty and Šanov na Rakovnicku and the water tank Kryra na Lounsku, i.e. the reservoir in one of the dryest areas of our country. The forest economy is still struggling with the consequences of the barking calamity, which changed the landscape for decades to come. The gentle comfort is that the barking calamity is slowly retreating and individual forest-growing owners led by the state enterprise Forest of the Czech Republic are succeeding despite the various problems of restoring the cut-out vegetation. Of course, we are taking advantage of this opportunity and instead of the original spruce monocultures or crops with the predominance of the spruce spruce, we are now putting out a much richer composition of trees to return to good forestry practice and, in particular, to make new crops more resistant to such disasters as the invasion of the aforementioned spruce icy-eating icy-eating. Today, we are also helped by a sharp rise in the purchase price of individual timber products, which at last helps both the state enterprise and the municipal and private owners to cover the enormous costs associated with the restoration of the crops. However, it should be borne in mind that the situation of forest owners is very difficult. That is why I can say that we have greatly succeeded in restoring the crops. Again, the wooded area of deciduous trees prevailed, with significant support from the Ministry of Agriculture. Under our Presidency in the EU Council, a political agreement has been reached on the prevention of deforestation. The Council of the European Union under our direction, the European Parliament and the European Commission have agreed on the text of a regulation to ensure that the production of products derived from coffee, cocoa, palm oil, soya, beef, wood and rubber will not result in deforestation or forest degradation. We also reflect the energy crisis. The state company Forests of the Czech Republic responded to the increasing interest in firewood due to the sharp increase in gas and electricity prices and sold it to the public in all regions, in the total volume of more than 300,000 cc in 2022. [[12.10 hours]] We also take into account the situation in hunting. The amendment to the Hunting Act is planned for legislative work this year, so we are definitely counting on it. Among other things, it is planned to introduce an electronic information system that should contribute to simplifying administration and communication related to the exercise of the right of hunting, both on the part of users and the holders of chasing and the authorities of the state of hunting. The aim of the amendment is to contribute, in particular, to effective control and surveillance in the implementation of the plan and breeding of cloven-hoofed game and thus contribute to the optimisation of its numbers and thus reduce the damage caused by the animals on the renewed forest growth. There is also an amendment to forest law in preparation that will respond to the current challenges in forestry, especially the need to adapt our forests to ongoing climate change. I also want to touch on the functioning of subordinate organizations and also the national company Budějovický Budvar. Last year he recorded a significant loss of sales on the Russian market due to war sanctions, but he was able to place this production on other markets. Thus, anti-Russian sanctions did not have a significant negative impact on its management, which cannot be said anymore about the impact of rising energy prices and other inputs on the management of the national enterprise. Despite this negative, however, the national company is stable and its profit will be the income of the state budget. Through the Support and Guarantee Fund for peasant and forestry, Czech and Moravian farmers, foresters and new food professionals were provided with support of a total of CZK 2,670,000, an amount that surpassed the record year 1997. The Fund and its support are primarily aimed at small and medium-sized enterprises, which seek to support their business activities through their programmes. The purpose of such support is a high multiplier effect. On average, it is about 6.5 times and 13 times for the program Zemedelec. PRGLF also plays a significant role in the field of financial support for insurance. It is also worth mentioning the success of the PGRLF support applicants, which is almost 92 percent and shows the popularity of PGRLF programmes and their effectiveness. And now I want to focus briefly on the production of individual agricultural commodities. Although the agricultural commodity market had to face the difficult conditions associated with the war in Ukraine, it managed to ensure the necessary supply of the agricultural and food products market. The imports of commodities from Ukraine into the European Union, such as cereals, vegetable fats and oils and oil seeds, have been increased. For example, wheat production in the Czech Republic was 4.5 percent higher last year than in the previous year and barley production increased by almost 7 percent. In particular, the increase in the harvest was more than 7 percent for high-quality winter varieties, where annual growth was even higher, with wheat and barley almost 15 percent. The European Union's self-sufficiency in oil seeds is only 60 percent, and Ukraine is the largest exporter of sunflower oil in the world. It is therefore good that oil production increased in the Czech Republic in 2022, namely sunflower production was almost 9 percent higher, rape production almost 13 percent higher and soya production up to 27 percent higher. The most important animal commodity in the Czech Republic is milk and dairy farming. In the long term, only milk is involved in more than half of livestock production. In the Czech Republic we hold production volume at the same time with excellent quality. The Czech Republic is also one of the few countries of the European Union that managed to increase milk purchases in 2022 in the difficult conditions of the feed market. The data show that domestic purchases increased by around 1,5 % year on year, while production powers in the European Union, such as Germany and France, have reduced production by around 1%. We are also increasing the total bovine population. According to the inventory of livestock, the stocks were year on year nearly 15,000 units higher. The production of beef without exports of live bovine animals increased by almost 6 percent. In March last year, the European Commission decided to release exceptional support for agricultural production sectors most affected by the effects of the war in Ukraine. The choice of sectors to receive exceptional support was within the competence of each Member State. In the Czech Republic, these sectors, which we consider to be crucial and important in the long term, are dairy producers, sows farmers, meat chickens, apple growers and potable potatoes. The Czech Republic received CZK 270 million from the European Union in exceptional support and our government took advantage of the possibility of co-financing this aid to a maximum of 200 percent. This allowed a total of CZK 810 million for domestic producers to be paid extraordinarily. Exporting a number of commodities has also increased successfully. In particular, exports of the said wheat and oil seeds have grown significantly from plant commodities according to dates. The financial income from their exports increased year on year by more than CZK 7 billion to a total of almost CZK 16 billion, of which the financial income from the exports of wheat was 42 percent higher. From animal commodities, we were able to increase mainly exports of milk, cattle and poultry, which increased annual income by another CZK 3.3 billion to a total of almost CZK 13 billion, of which the financial contribution from milk exports was 37 percent year on year. Different diseases are important risks for our breeding in the long term. I would like to remind you that an epidemic of swine plague from Poland is slowly taking place in our territory. Our supervisory authorities, in particular the State Veterinary Administration, are therefore on the lookout and we will make every effort to eliminate the damage. In this we will use all the experience we gained a few years ago to combat the outbreak of swine fever in Zlinsko, and we believe that we will be able to prevent the infection of breeding. Unfortunately, despite all the measures we have taken, we have failed to prevent the introduction of avian influenza and its spread within our country. One of this year's cases concerns the Tachovské farmlands. Despite the maximum efforts made by the owner of the farm and employees and with significant support from the State Veterinary Administration, it was not possible to prevent the spread of the disease to all halls of the affected operation. For the Czech Republic, this means a temporary loss of a significant proportion of egg production at around 16 percent. In addition to the affected farm, tens of thousands of animals had to be killed on other farms and in small farms. This is a very sad matter for me, which I attach a great deal of weight to. [[12.20 hours]] Personally, I would like to make an effort to analyse the causes and ways of spreading this year's avian flu wave together with experts in SONOS and to use measures to minimise the risk of avian influenza for the next season. But we don't sit with our hands in our laps. Financial compensation for losses incurred shall be prepared for affected holdings so that the production of eggs can be restored to the original extent as quickly as possible. A compensatory package is prepared in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance, which is urgently needed by our egg producers. We are also active and completely transparent in this issue against our foreign business partners. Our completely open approach and information about the state and measures taken is reflected in the international reputation of the Czech Republic. Only two countries, namely Singapore and Hong Kong, have applied restrictive measures against our imports to these two destinations. In the case of other export destinations, our veterinary supervision system is a guarantee of safety and guarantee for export of our products and animals. Ladies and gentlemen, I could continue for hours, but I don't want to. I believe that the House here is supposed to be at this moment, when our citizens are experiencing a sharp rise in the cost of living and Europe's security is once again at the Cold War level, to focus intensively on more meaningful topics. A repeated attempt to express distrust of our government is a theater with a waste of time, because as a government, we have the trust of all our Members. We know that, you know that. And yet you don't hesitate to waste your time talking and pretending that it's just your fight for people. It's not. It's just a desperate effort to keep up the chance for the presidential mandate of Andrej Babiš. I share the appallment of some political commentators and political scientists from Mr Andrej Babiš's speech after the first round of the presidential election. Yeah, that's where we saw the pathetic strategy. Scared, upset, upset, insulted. And what could we possibly use out of it? Zhola nothing. I'm from a decent family, and I respect others, but I'm not going to take that kind of habit. Thank you for your attention and I wish you and the Czech Republic unity, prosperity and success for the next period. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u103	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the government, have a good afternoon. Thank you, Minister. Your performance brought up three factual points. First, Mr David Pražák, then Mrs Margita Balaštíková and then Mr Josef Kott. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u104	Good noon, Madam Secretary, ministers, ladies, gentlemen. I'm glad it came to agriculture. Mr. Secretary and I were looking forward to the performance yesterday, which did not happen, but we also met this morning. I would have thought, at least, the Minister of Agriculture would have missed some of the invectives about the presidential election and the topics that were falling here, but unfortunately, I believe he must have had it that way. But I'd like to focus on the things that fell there today, or the things that fell right at the beginning today. I don't think I can make it in those two minutes, but I'm sure I'll check in again later. The government is fulfilling what it promised. VAT on food. Well, I'm not entirely convinced by what you said, Minister, that we didn't lower on some of the foods, just as we wanted to reduce VAT on basic foods, that you didn't do it and that that's right. Because a bunch of Czech citizens drove precisely because Poland had a lower food price and had zero VAT, they went shopping to Poland. So the result for our budget was that they left the money in Poland. That's one thing. And the other thing. Of course, if you didn't lower your VAT, then you sucked the money out of those people in the groceries and the prices that went up. You've been here sometime in July or summer just saying that according to your information, food prices will start to fall within 14 days. You know it didn't work out. I didn't even get much of an accent anywhere, that it wasn't. But even today, we all see where the prices have gone. They got there because, in fact, I'm not going to say that you as Minister of Agriculture, but the government didn't help and did nothing for farmers last year. It did not help to make the prices of those fertilizers that were four to five times higher to help them in some way. We wanted agriculture to get into the state's critical infrastructure in case there was a problem with diesel. She didn't help with any of the oil prices. [[Your time.]] I don't want to... Oh, that was fast. Well, I'm gonna turn myself in again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u105	Log in, if necessary, with another factual remark. Thank you. Now, Mrs Margita Balaštíková and Mr Josef Kott will be ready. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u106	Well, hello again today, colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Minister, I don't know which Hans Christian Andersen from the Department of Agriculture wrote this to you, but he could write really this literature and entertain citizens. I'm gonna do it one by one. I'm gonna do it again. I said in the spring the prices were gonna rise, you said it wouldn't be awful. Then it turns out it's awful. You've been soothing everyone this summer that it's gonna be okay, that our stock market prices are already falling. I said no, and I wrote an article I called the Comforter of Těšetic, because the minister lives in this village. Because he was comforting everyone how beautiful it would be. It hasn't been confirmed. But I would like to ask you - you said that bread costs 45 crowns. So I'd like to ask you where you buy the bread for the 45 crowns, if it's the hard one for the rabbits I go to buy in our Unity, or what it is for the bread. Because normal bread with a weight of 2.5 kg is really about 100 crowns. Just between you and me, I go shopping almost every day, so I've got the prizes in my finger. I wouldn't call it a slight price increase, because we really have a very high price increase. You said that the record player in price growth is gas and energy, OK, but it is projected to increase food prices, so if it falls slightly, it will take a long time for it to show up in those prices. And as Minister of Agriculture, you should know that for years there haven't been prices going up, it's been going down, farmers have bailed it out from different activities, and now it's definitely not going to go back to the return prices, I'm sure I wouldn't agree with that. And what you were describing here at the beginning, it wasn't about agriculture, it was about in general, you were trying to point out different things and you didn't use time on agriculture. [[Your time.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u107	Thank you, too, Madame. Mr Josef Kott will now speak with a point of fact and Mr Jiří Strýček will prepare himself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u108	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'll try to be the desperate one, as the minister said, but I also think I'm from a decent family. However, what was falling here is of course always half true, because the prices of products could not, of course, grow by the end of the year, because the trade chains have either been made in six months or in annual contracts. And those annual contracts or six-month contracts ended either in November or December. So it's no credit to anyone other than the chain of commerce that their suppliers, even if they had a completely different purchase price, would hold those prices. If you'll forgive the invectives for the agrobarons and the filthy practices of the big companies, I'll take your performance as completely competent and balanced, but there are some things that I'm not able to pass on. Precise agriculture. I was working at a company that introduced precise agriculture in 1998, so this isn't something new under the sun that the ministry is trying to do here. Of course, strong societies, whether they're big or small, but they're intense, so they can handle it, but the others just can never, never use precise agriculture. And believe me, I know what I'm talking about. You were talking about fertilizer consumption and chemical agents, bet it wouldn't be higher. Well, of course, it won't be higher because last year companies were sold and knew how high prices they were going to sell and how low their inputs were. This year is exactly the opposite. Huge inputs and nowhere is written how they will realize their production. So I'm not betting with you, because of that, of course, you're right. But again, it's not that the Department of Agriculture took care of it. [[12.30 hours]] Oil production, there's always the same acreage. Except if it's born half a ton more on the area, that's what the volume you're talking about is doing. [[Your time.]] I'll sign up one more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u109	Thank you. Mr. Jiří Strýček, Mr. David Pražák, will now be prepared with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u110	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Mr Minister, through Mr President, I will be very brief, perhaps my colleagues could use my time, but I was interested in one thing about your speech. You're the one who said that 108 coalition or government MPs trust your government. That is true, but you have not yet realized, Minister, that your government is not trusted by 70 percent of the population in this country.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u111	Thank you. Mr David Pražák, Mr Josef Flek, then Mrs Margita Balaštíková, will be prepared. All factual points. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u112	Once again, hello. Maybe it'll be more than that. I just want to get back to what the minister said at the beginning. It began with the sentence that he was fulfilling the programming declaration. The first sentence he said is that they have in the programming declaration: we will support small start-up organic farmers more effectively. He's right, that's right. But you guys have written and medium, like a middle-aged farmer. And you just damaged that redistributive payment you invented. You've completely missed them, and they make up some 65 percent of the production of everything in the Czech Republic. And when you said you wanted to support biogas stations. Good, fine, but what are you gonna feed the biogas? Today, I think we have been doing a little bit of proofing of the Presidency in the European Union, because the European Commission is ordering us to do some things like ban on autumn orbs. He's ordering us to do what and how we'll be able to do. And you're saying we're going to have smaller ropes because of erosion. Definitely say goodbye to the ropes, like you said. Yeah. But we're definitely gonna say goodbye to the production. Because what is now in the proposal - and to be fair, we should have discussed it on the agricultural committee and we will certainly discuss it in the future - is that the Czech Republic has turned red and, more or less, maize will not grow in the corn production area, beet beets will not grow. And it is possible that there will be no potatoes in the potato area, and our students will go to the Research Institute for Plant Production in Ruzyn to the genobanca, what potato looks like. This is the result of how you say that you have managed the European Presidency. That's what I think, this, the mess, and we need to get back to it. But I believe that on the agricultural committee and some subcommittees, we will perhaps get to something sensible. But I think this is a problem. Same with the administration. So far, I haven't noticed anything as a farmer, but maybe it's also because for you the reduction in administration is that you take down 2 billion in national subsidies. If you don't have money in national subsidies, of course you won't have to manage. That's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u113	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Now, then, Mrs Margita Balaštíková, Mr Karel Smetana and then Mr Josef Kott will be ready. Everyone with a point of fact. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u114	Hello again. So you said you secured a fair approach. So if you have anything, Minister, you haven't secured the EU's fair approach. For 30 years, farmers have been complaining. After joining the EU, the fair approach got even worse. And you put the crown on it by not wanting absolute values for pesticides and fertilization, by simply being a document on the common agricultural policy that was being done here for months, more like years, you just changed without asking the others, so you totally underlined it! As for the water, excuse me, bragging about the waterworks of Vlachovice, which Babišův's government did when he was the Minister of Finance, it was the first exit of that government to the Zlín Region, and we had the greatest readiness of this waterworks, so it will really come to me by the hair drawn. And I can tell you've been bragging about alien acts since the very beginning of your speech. That's the same thing as a crusty plague. At the time of your minister Mr. Marian Jurečka, I warned Mr. Szórád that growing activity should begin, that there should be something to be done about the crust. I was a councilman in the Zlín Region for agriculture and the environment. There we did a project of support for small forest owners to fight the barkworm, which then took over the Ministry of Agriculture. So please at least check what you're doing, whose ideas and achievements you're stealing and what you're bragging about!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u115	Thank you. Now, Mr Karel Smetana, Mr Josef Kott will prepare, then Mr David Pražák. All factual points. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u116	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to respond to my previous speaker, Mr. Pražák. He mentioned here that the minister didn't do anything, or the government didn't do anything. I would like to poke out the important things that have been said in the Minister's speech. Co-financing of the Rural Development Programme at 65 percent, up to CZK 200 billion in the programming period, CZK 831 million, emergency assistance to endangered sectors of Czech agriculture. Emergency aid of CZK 750 million in the peasant's guarantee fund. Now I'd like to respond to Mrs. Balaštíková. You're right, maybe two-and-a-half kilo bread costs 100 crowns. We normally buy more than 1.2 kilograms of bread, and that's where the price actually goes, as the minister said. So it's just an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u117	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Josef Kott will now speak, then Mr David Pražák, Richard Brabec and others with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u118	Thanks again for the word. Well, I'd like to finish what I'm here to talk about. These anti-erotic measures are indeed a huge problem. It's a huge problem. Because, because of how the system of orbs is set up, and indeed in the Highlands, if there is no significant shift - and I know that not only the big ones are having problems with it, as the Minister has said, but all the little ones who do the cocoons there are all having problems - so if there is no significant shift, then the potatoes will really stop working in the Highlands as in the regeneration area. That's the first thing. The second matter of milk, which I have not yet been able to talk about. The price of milk is not given by the processor and business chain in the Czech Republic. That's where the German corporation made the award, where the cooperative actually imports the milk. And if Czech processors pay 13,40 or 13.80 and Germany pays 15.60, then this is the issue. The last thing the Minister has said here, and for which I thank you, is a matter of avian influenza, which is simply going on in Europe every year in some way, but this year is really critical. The fact that the Czech Republic was self-sufficient of some 82 percent, now he himself said that basically the breeding in Tachovsk is minus 16 percent, so I would very much argue for it, and I think it's on the agenda of the day to start dealing with the ban on caged hens. Because what we've done here, I don't think it's right, and it's more or less damaged only by Czech egg producers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u119	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Mr David Pražák, then Richard Brabec, Mrs Margita Balaštíková and others. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u120	Thank you again. I'm gonna keep doing what I stopped earlier. I'm not gonna criticize everything. Of course, the law on public procurement, which we have been preparing together, and local food can be used in public procurement, is good. I commend the support of the food banks. I just feel a little skeptical that we are hiding a little behind what the European Commission forbids and orders us to do. And in this I said that I think that we did this in the Presidency of the European Union. I think maybe we could have pushed this thing a little harder in agriculture. 'Cause I'm afraid we're gonna hide behind this, seeing that what's about to be restricted, banned, and prevented, is just gonna get here from the outside. I am convinced that Czech farmers are able to produce safe quality Czech food, irrespective of size, small, large. I think we should all do everything we can to keep those sticks from throwing them under their feet and, on the contrary, trying to help them in their production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u121	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Now, then, Mr Richard Brabec, Mrs Margita Balaštíková and Mr Aleš Dufek will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u122	Thank you for the floor. Hello, colleagues, esteemed members of the government and members, members and members of the government. I'm just going to briefly mention one thing that has already been marginally said here, and that is the Ministry of Agriculture's policy on water retention and, above all, large water tanks. It's a little paradoxical that I'm saying this because I was the one who argued with Marian Jurečka when he was the Minister of Agriculture, or even Mirek Toman when he was the Minister of Agriculture, about how the correct ratio of support for the construction of large water tanks is. Not only water for drinking water, but also those that can serve for other purposes, it means water for farmers, water for recreational purposes and so on, and so on. Because we know that if it wasn't for the Vltava cascade today, we'd have a pretty big problem, not to mention the Želivka. That is why I was surprised from the start by the government's programming statement, and unfortunately, in this case, it is being fulfilled, which underestimates the construction of the large water tanks. I think we've done a lot out there. We agreed between the resorts that we would expand the list of those territories that were somehow blocked for the construction of large water reservoirs. And I believe that the current government policy and, in this case, the Ministry of Agriculture, that it will only be, in absolutely necessary cases, critically from the point of view of drinking water, to support the construction of large water tanks, so I consider, let's say, from the visionary point of view, wrong. The persistence of this decision is, of course, many years, it will come back to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u123	Thank you, too. Now, Mrs Margita Balaštíková, Mr Aleš Dufek will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u124	I don't want to be just ugly. Yes, your colleague has already commended you. I'll join you. You didn't do everything wrong, but I have to say, it's so desperately small that it's hard to remember what it was. Major market power. That's what I want to say - at least something. But thank you for something. As far as bureaucracy is concerned, I'm sorry, but there was training in the Zlín Region, and even the little ones understood that they would probably have to hire someone to do it because they couldn't do it anymore. But that's your look. I'm telling you what practice brings. African swine fever, back in my beautiful country. We were the first to deal with it. So I'll be glad if you really learn from what we did there, because after your former minister, I'm glad he's sitting here right now, and he can hear it, I'm still begging Toman to make promises to pay off. Just between us. And as for the meliorations, it was your Mr. Agriculture Minister Jurečka again, with whom, when we were discussing it, the Melioration Act that let it go. And now you're answering it as a big question. We could have been over the mountains a long time ago. We're not. But to the Unskillers, that's where we're running for sure. Who knows how it's gonna fall when we jump off that rock.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u125	Well, thank you. Mr. Aleš Dufek now. Mr Karel Smetana and then Minister Marian Jurečka will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u126	I'd basically like to stand up for the Minister. He's my party colleague, and I've been seeing him all year long, and I've seen him as a man erudite and hardworking. It's a bit of a problem for me - I'm not an expert, as in agriculture. I am from the regional town of Zlín, which is a city, although many here in Prague consider it a country, but indeed Zlín is a city. So I'm not exactly familiar with these things here. I appreciate the fact that the comments, in fact, as opposed to you, were mostly expert, which I am - I can still perceive that, and I appreciate this approach. But with the exception of one thing, except for the comments made by Mr. Master last summer on the price of food growth. You know, it's such a big deal to predict something at this time that I don't think any of us who's realistic are going to predict what's going to happen in six months, what's going to happen in two years. So I'd like us not to throw this to the Minister, because the time was really specific. And none of us is a prophet, and none of us really knew what was going to happen then.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u127	Thank you. Now, Mr Karel Smetana, Minister Marian Jurečka will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u128	I would still like to respond to the previous speaker, Mr Kott, through you, Mr Vice-President, about the cage breeding. Let's remember when the ban happened. It was under the previous government. And we clearly support European solutions so that it does not harm Czech breeders.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u129	Thank you. Now Minister Marian Jurečka. Mr. Josef Kott will be ready. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u130	I'm taking the liberty of reacting to a few things. I enjoy the discussions when we go into the past and the person in the past was very active and was also in good coalition cooperation here with colleagues who criticize it from the opposition today, so I am happy to take the tour. I think from the point of view of the measures in the framework of the VODA - SUCHO strategy, it is our joint child with Richard Brabc, we started it in 2014. The strategy is carrying, up-to-date, it's actually coming true. A lot of those things came true. Of course, some things are for this government as well as future governments, because these are things that will not happen in four or eight years. I think that's okay. No one says that the only solution is large or medium water tanks. These measures need to be balanced according to the need, the need for water operators, the agricultural sector, industry and so on. That's what I think is also happening fairly balancedly in my opinion. There's nothing in the past that hasn't been a match between the departments of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice. As far as melioracing matters are concerned, we have prepared the project so that the overall inventory of all the melioration systems takes place, that they are digitally drawn into cadastral maps, that they are inserted into the cadastral system, and that a draft of measures is also prepared in this project, where some land may not be meliored after that. On the contrary, some can be used within the meliaration systems that can be used for irrigation, and it can work logically in some way. We worked with Intersucha and colleagues from CzechGlob on this project. I was, when I finished at the Ministry, then repeatedly to see my successor, then Minister Milek, and I begged him not to fit this project in a drawer, but to work on it. Unfortunately, and it's not my fault that over the last four years, the progression wasn't another one. And yes, we are actually - Minister Nekula follows up on what we have actually prepared during my work at the Ministry and what has failed to complete because there was no time. Only the passportization itself will last two or three years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u131	Thank you. Now, Mr Josef Kott, Mr Richard Brabec will be prepared - with factual remarks. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u132	Thanks for the word. I agree with what my colleague Smetana said here. It's true, the last Chamber of Deputies has really jumped on the populist expression of a part of society. And we have done something that basically brought here today the coalition partners of the Pirates with the idea that we will be the flagship that will ban cage breeding here first in the European Union. I am still convinced that this was not a good solution. This is shown to be the case with the current situation of avian influenza, because the veterinary administration has issued 12. 12. measures to prohibit the discharge of poultry outside closed premises. It's about both the large farms and the small farms. I admit that even then, coalition MPs were locked in cages in Malostranské náměstí and demonstrated the suffering of animals. It's an opinion. However, I keep saying that if we don't control the production of eggs for food or hatching, it's wrong. And I thanked the Minister for getting the funds to compensate the farms that had to take out the poultry. Last year I think it was about 178 million, this year only the first breeding will be over 200 million or 220 million. And I'm glad for that. However, I said what I said, that I think we could revise the law, because the European Union will certainly not do that all countries, all states will behave the same as we have since 2027.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u133	Thank you. Mr David Pražák is now making a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u134	I've only had a short time. I'm glad the minister here got off today, that we could've told each other about this place for almost 45 minutes, but I'm a little sorry there's probably no more reaction back. [[unintelligible]] Maybe this would take a little bit more - how do I put this? - add to that. Otherwise, we thank you for performing as well as your fellow Minister of Culture, because I think this is what it was supposed to look like yesterday, we could have been somewhere else. I checked out of that list, there's only 45 of us now, because I think I've said some things here today, and I'm not gonna keep doing it because I don't believe that you're all gonna last here, or as ministers, who have already performed. But I really thank you once again for saying some things to each other like that, which doesn't matter, but maybe the Minister's reaction would be worth it too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u135	Thank you. The Minister is reporting with his point of order and will respond. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u136	Thank you for the floor. I'm glad to be challenged like this. I just did a little bit of statistics. In the second half, when we were the country's president and I was basically running all the agricultural ministers' councils in Brussels, so I was more on the road, so I made a comparison as to how many times I performed here in the second half, and how many times, perhaps, the absent Mr Babiš. I have performed 17 times, Mr. absent Member Babiš 12 times. It's just for a sketch. So in the short run, how much we helped or did not help farmers or medium-sized farmers. What has been said here from both me and Mr Smetana - 810 million extraordinary crisis aid plus 750 million. Very quick help, farmers were the first in the national economy sector to receive targeted aid in the context of last year's crisis. And for this year, we are actually counting on increasing the PGRLF's budget to CZK 2 billion from the beginning of the year. Why? Because there is the largest multiplier effect, and PGRLF's programme structure is focused mainly on, or mainly on, medium-sized enterprises. Highly endangered areas. It is also necessary to look at this from this point of view, with the former Minister of the Environment we agreed that the efficiency will be postponed only from 2024, in a targeted way, so that we can re-establish the rules of the game during this year so that we can eliminate erosion in the landscape in those heavily endangered areas and, on the other hand, do not block or significantly restrict agricultural production. We're working on it. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] And I assume that during the first half of the year farmers will have enough information, and that solution is already on the way. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u137	Thank you. Your performance brought up three factual points. First Mrs Margita Balaštíková, then Mr David Pražák and then Mrs Jiří Mašek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u138	Hello again. It's called talking silver, silence gold. And you, Minister, provoked me by the fact that you really can't live without this Babiš. I didn't want to perform anymore, I looked at you with pink glasses again, but in the end, I have to. You said here that the whole thing that's going on here today is to do PR to whoever's not here, and you said, "We have the trust of our Members." We know that, you know that. And I'm gonna tell you that we know that if today's vote was classified, Mr. Bartošek here, sorry, maybe he'll make one last bell.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u139	Mr. Bartošek through me, yes? [[Fun.]] Thank you. Mr David Pražák and then Mr Jiří Mašek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u140	For the last time, I guess. I'm the only one who's done that, Minister, and thank you for the erosion. But I just want to point out that we don't have all year 2023. We need to know this in the summer, at the end of the summer, when fertilizers are bought, seeds are bought and plans are made, seed plans are made. We really need to know this summer. Not like it was now that actually a bunch of farmers called in November, asked how it was gonna be. They weren't sure what they could do after the New Year, they wouldn't be, what would be forbidden, what would be allowed. So, really, by the end of the summer, it would need to have defined what could be possible and what could not be. Not until the end of the year. It'll be too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u141	I thank you and another point of fact - Mr Jiří Mašek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u142	Mr President, fellow Members, I am sorry, I am an unintelligible agricultural expert, but I was somewhat provoked by Mr Kott's contribution, through the President, and his question about the cages. I'm a doctor, and I know something about flu epidemics. True, not in the veterinary sphere, but now that we're seeing the repeated discharge of a large number of birds that are bred in some way, I personally consider the cage breeding that we've taken so actively to abolish it, perhaps most actively, if it's not at least partially to re-evaluate, because from the medical point of view of spreading the flu, it's to be counted on every year, and, of course, in the case of those cages, it's better to prevent that than in some free breeding under some wannabe nets outside and so on. So my question is whether, after all, there will be some kind of re-evaluation in this and the exit from cage breeding in some longer time horizon, because I see for myself the possibility that there will actually be a lack of self-sufficiency with, for example, eggs and poultry meat production and that it can significantly translate into prices and availability. So that's all I'd like from the Minister to answer if this is what we're thinking, or whether we're waiting for nature to do it and how the flu epidemics are coming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u143	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'll read the apologies. From 12 to 18 hours for medical reasons, Mrs Lenka Dražilová apologizes. Mr Jan Hrnčíř apologizes for the whole day of the meeting due to a foreign trip. Mr Michal Kučera apologizes from 11 to 12 hours for reasons of work, and Mr Jan Lipavský apologises from 14 o'clock for reasons of work. We have 12.57 and I have two priority rights here, first Minister Helena Langšádlová and then President Radim Fiala. I'm making a motion with procedure. On the basis of the agreement of the Members' Club Chairs, a break should be between one and two o'clock for lunch, with me interrupting the negotiations now so that the Minister does not speak for just three minutes and I did not interrupt her speech, and after lunch she would be given time for the full speech. If you have no objection to the procedure, then I thank you and interrupt the Chamber of Deputies until 14.00.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u144	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing to discuss the motion for distrust to the Government of the Czech Republic. I'm just reminding you that we're in a debate. Minister Helena Langšádlová is registered with priority rights. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u145	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, please allow me to say a few words at this time about science and research. Science, research is a priority of our government, and that is why the level of science and research has a fundamental impact on how our economic policy is going to develop, but also on how we are doing and how we manage to address the important societal challenges ahead. It is sometimes said from studies that more than half of the gross domestic product per capita between countries can be explained by the quality of human capital. And the critical part of this human capital is people in science. That is why, in addition to building infrastructure, we need to focus significantly more on people in science in the future, in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and individual research organisations. As I said, one of my priorities is people in science, and the other priority is the promotion of excellence. I want to develop some tools that we already have, or even introduce new ones. It is obvious, and I will come back to that, that we are not using the full potential, such as the resources of the European Union's ERC grants. That we must increase the project of the ERC CZ, Expro or Junior Star program. I would very much like to see individual research organisations as well as in the evaluation methodology in module 2, evaluate them according to whether they have some of the excellent grants, including the ERC CZ, and other instruments must be to strengthen the correlation of the results of the evaluation from the financing with the institutional support of the DKRVO. As I said, science, research, innovation have a major impact on economic growth, building an economy with high added value as well as on public policy solutions, but only assuming a functioning transfer, this is the appreciation and use of the results of science, and therefore transfer is one of my priorities. I would also like to support the solution of transfer issues in the new law, which we are preparing at present, but also to strengthen the evaluation of transfer and applied science results in module 1 of the evaluation methodology. However, a change in paradigm is also essential. When a person visits a workplace in Israel, Belgium and other countries, the extent of transfer, cooperation between the state and scientific organizations, between industry and science, is much more intense. We need to change the paradigm. Very often I meet with representatives of universities or the Academy of Sciences who say well, we prefer not to do this transfer because someone might accuse us of not dealing with a proper economy. And we need to change the paradigm. We have to say, if you have the results of science, the results of your great scientists, and you're not using the proposals that could be transferred, you're not dealing with the right economy. Because in those countries where we see a developed transfer, these activities are ultimately an important income of research organisations. To talk about the legislative arrangements for transfer, it must be said that at the moment I believe that transfer can be done, and workplaces such as UOCHB or CUIT and others, within the academic space and under existing legislation, carry out transfers. But I also listen to what university leaders and the Academy of Sciences say that they need greater legal certainty. That's why, as I said, transfer will be one of the topics of the upcoming law. I also want to contribute by regulating related laws and highlighting good practice, and we are already working on that. For example, we did a big conference with Transfera and other subjects. To complement this area, I would like to say that from public sources, half a billion Czech crowns have already gone to support research organisations, universities and the Academy of Sciences to build transfer centres, but not all of them have been well used. I know that forms of transfer can be a whole series and some work quite well. It's contractual collaborative research. But the pitfall, where we really still have great potential, is the transfer in the form of creating spinoffs or selling licenses. This is really very often risky, because it can be a transfer of the result of basic research, as we see in Israel at the Weizmann Institute. These may be very groundbreaking proposals that we do not know will succeed on the market afterwards. That is why it is very important that we create a comprehensive environment that will not only be favourable, clear and motivating, but it is essential that those research organisations that will transfer also have risk capital from both private sources and with the support of the State. Just to compare with a very comparable Austria, there is a scientific spin-off that occurs about four times a year. And it is a real shame that we are not more active in this area. At this point, we are also evaluating other instruments that are being used in Europe. I would like to give an example of Holland, where even to support the scientific spin-offs, some share of its investment must be given to pension funds. But I'm sure we'll find other tools. And I would like to promise, because this is one of the ways to exploit the potential of our quality science, that I want to develop this area significantly. I would like to mention another area, and this is a transfer from science and research to public administration. Knowledge of science should have a greater impact on public policymaking. We should take decisions based on information, data. And again. I see a lot of countries where scientists' potential to create public policies is being exploited significantly. We need to strengthen the cooperation from both sides. We must strengthen cooperation on the part of a state that needs to define more in relation to the scientific community, but also on the part of the scientific community, in order to think more about the use of public policies in order to contribute to the knowledge of science in addressing the challenges ahead. So at this point, I would like to go back to the point that concerns what is ahead of us, what we are going to face and what our scientists must contribute to. Anyone who does something must have priorities. In the case of the Czech Republic, these are priorities of oriented research, which in the field of applied research in particular set out areas on which emphasis should be placed. But in the current situation, it was 176 individual priorities. We all know that, at a time when we have 176 priorities, that this is too much, and that is why we, together with the Council of Government, have started working on new priorities for oriented research at this time. [[14.10 hours]] The first step is to define the challenges ahead. And what is it? It is definitely climate change, it is certainly a big challenge, a big topic, but also a high responsibility to future generations. We must respond both to the mitigation of the effects of climate change and to the adaptation to these changes. And since I organized a conference with the Academy of Sciences on this very subject, I know that our scientists have many results to help us solve this great challenge. Energy transformation may also have something to do with this. It has, of course, been going on with Green Deal for many years. But the current situation, when we were enormously dependent on Russian gas, is clear that we need to accelerate our energy transformation and the steps involved. Again, the Council of Government has analysed the results of applied research in this area, has a number of recommendations and proposals for the Ministry of Industry and Trade. Again, I believe that these are our scientists who can help us solve this difficult challenge. Another area ahead of us is the ageing population. The fact that we live to be old is certainly an extremely positive phenomenon. It's thanks to our great health service. But at the same time there will be demographic changes. There will be an increase in the proportion of people who will be in retirement age compared to those who will be in the work process. The demands on our health and social systems will increase, and we need to be prepared for this issue. And again, they are our scientists who can help us solve this challenge. No less important areas are preparedness for challenges such as and was a crisis associated with coronavirus. That is why we are also setting up mechanisms in the new law so that science, research, can respond significantly more quickly to those challenges that sometimes come very unexpectedly. Of course, what I have spoken has to do with the overall transformation of the economy, digitalisation, the introduction of new technologies such as artificial intelligence, quantum, but ultimately one of the challenges ahead, and that is maintaining trust in the rule of law and democracy itself. All these challenges that we are going to solve, we have to deal with them in cooperation with our scientists across the fields, and that's the only way we can deal with it. In this context, I would like to appreciate the Academy of Sciences, which has been developing the AV21 Strategy since 2014, precisely to support the resolution of the current societal challenges, through a thoughtful formulation of research programmes based on the cooperation of disciplines and institutions across individual workplaces. I am very pleased that the Academy of Sciences has long been offering help and support to the public administration and to the entire society in addressing these challenges. Now let me say a few words about the budget. Perhaps for the context, according to the results of the budget for 2021, because we do not have later data, so the Czech Republic is in 13th place in the area of funding science. It's somewhere in the middle of the peloton, and it's definitely our role to boost the funding of science and research. As regards the budget for 2022 and 2023, we were based on medium-term prospects prepared by the previous government. In both years, these funds were increased by 700 million in 2022, which mainly aimed at strengthening institutional support for the DKRVO for the Academy of Sciences and Higher Education, and in 2023 it was about 850 million also largely to strengthen institutional support, which should, for example, aim to promote excellence, to support work with human resources. But I know that the situation was very difficult, that we had high inflation, that we were all dealing with high energy prices. But also for research organisations, there was a ceiling on energy prices, and that was another cost of the state budget of 2.5 billion, which, of course, you won't find in the science field, research. At this point, negotiations are under way on the budget for 2024. As I said, I am seeking to strengthen institutional funding, as has finally been agreed during the previous government in the Memorandum between universities, the Academy of Sciences and the State. But at the same time, we need to talk about promoting excellence, strengthening transfer, protecting intellectual property, increasing funding for research organisations with evaluation, but also the proportion of polytechnic students, as stated in the document. The basic issue, however, is also the use of so-called Community resources. Community resources are money coming from the European Union, but are not allocated to individual states. And here I would like to say that regardless of which government is in power, we have long been very unsuccessful in using these resources across individual areas. In the case of science and research, we are talking mainly about Horizon. When we look at the drawing, it's really extremely low, the volumes are very low compared to other states. Let me give you some examples. And why is it very important for us to use these resources? Not only because we are then lacking, it is a great pity especially for some programmes, but also because the operational programmes, as we know them in this programming period, will not be in the future. And filing applications, the evaluation of these projects is a little different. We must do everything we can to increase participation in these programmes. For example, like the Španěl or Portugalec who actually built the strategy to nominate more evaluators, and that was the way they actually increased their success. Because the European Commission encourages those evaluators to share their good practice with future applicants. In the case of science, research I said it was Horizon, and in the context of this programme I would mention, above all, ERC grants to support excellent research. I would like to say that comparable Austria, again I do not want to mention countries that are even more successful, but comparable Austria received 246 ERC grants in the previous programming period and the Czech Republic only 46. This is indeed a great potential for improvement and I think it is an unused opportunity. It is certainly good that we continue to develop the ERC CZ programme for those who have successfully applied for the ERC grant, but have not been satisfied in terms of the number of applicants. I would be pleased to raise the resources for this programme, together with the Minister of Education, in future years, so that these successful scientists can also be supported at national level. Finally, it is one of those instruments of support for excellence, as I have already mentioned. When comparing the structure of the budget's financial resources with other European countries, because I very often track the data across Europe, it is clear that we must significantly strengthen private resources into science and research. We do not lag behind in the public resources, but private resources into science, research is significantly lower in our country than in the most advanced countries. This must be achieved primarily by supporting and seeking indirect support instruments. We are currently working to evaluate the only instrument we have, and these are tax deductions. This makes it quite clear that the efficiency is greater for small and medium-sized companies. It is quite clear that there is a big problem in the back-checking of the granting of this aid and that very often the substance is also questioned whether it has really been applied to research and development. [[14.20 hours]] There we could inspire ourselves in countries where the definition of what research and development is is not made by the tax office, but by another entity in the state. This is one of the areas I am talking to the Minister of Finance about. But it is the only instrument of indirect support at the moment, and we should express our support for it and we should assess positively that companies are using it, even though there is a decline, and that is why the declaration of support is important. At the same time, we must look for other instruments to indirectly support investment in science and research. We have a reinvestment of revenue in the government's programming statement. In general, the structure of the Czech Republic is partly due to the transformation of the economy 30 years ago in the 1990s, we have a lot of foreign companies here, and it is logical that these investors are making returns. It must be in the interest of all of us to reinvest in the Czech economy, and we must look for tools of higher motivation for reinvestment in science and research, because this is precisely the way to strengthen the economy with higher added value. Of course, the fundamental support for science and research comes from the National Recovery Plan, especially from component 5.1 and 5.2, amounting to CZK 8.2 billion, and we are discussing further increases in funds from the National Recovery Plan. Of course, resources from operational programmes, especially JAK and OP TAK, which are approximately CZK 8 billion a year are still not insignificant at this time. As I have already mentioned, I consider the support of people to be one of the greatest priorities. Even the biggest investment in research infrastructures without parallel support for human resources in science will not ensure that we are successful in this area. This is precisely why, as I said, I will seek to increase institutional support so that individual research organisations can be responsible for their personnel policy. In this context, however, I must mention some data from the Czech Statistical Office. In the last ten years, the number of people in science has increased by 30%, both at universities and at the Academy of Sciences. Indeed, there is a great responsibility for individual research organisations to support really the best, especially young scientists, and to be very responsible in their personnel policy. What we are dealing with with the Council of Government is that we are looking for other instruments to strengthen the reconciliation of professional and family life, promote mobility, return policy, because we still have a great deal of room for improvement in these areas. I am very pleased, and I thank the Minister for being a co-gestor of the amendment to the Higher Education Act, which should increase not only the level of scholarships but also the level of work with doctoral students. At the same time, we are also discussing with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs that the position of doctoral students, especially doctoral students, should be improved in order to grant them maternity benefits, because in this case our doctoral students are handicapped, possibly to be recognised, if they have completed their doctoral studies properly, this period at least partially as a work experience when they, for example, take up work in the state administration. I am glad that at this moment we will also address the challenge of discussing the introduction of industrial doctorates with the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. We will have a meeting with representatives of both companies and universities in the next few days, because this is a good practice that is applied in many countries of Europe, which will lead to greater coherence between cooperation between companies and universities and perhaps secondary needs to strengthen the transfer and application of graduates. As I have said, I am currently preparing a new law, a new law on research, development, innovation and transfer of knowledge and technology, which, in addition to these issues of transfer, working with human resources, priorities of oriented research, also addresses issues of setting up functional, transparent coordination mechanisms in our very fragmented science support system, when you know that money for science goes into fifteen chapters of the state budget. We are also talking about reducing the administrative burden. I believe that we will be able to do so, because the administrative burden is bothering us in all areas, including science and research. I said that we want the law to allow for a rapid response in crisis situations, a higher evaluation of tools to support science and research, but also their impact. We need to better evaluate individual programmes, not projects, but individual programmes after their completion, so that we can be sure what the effectiveness of the resources spent is and what the real impacts are in those individual areas. In the same way, we need to examine and evaluate more the effectiveness of spent funds for applied research. The new law will also address the issue of ethics in science and the protection of the security interests of the state in science and research, Finally, I would like to mention that my team and I participated in the formulation and negotiation of the Chips Act as an important European instrument for strengthening strategic autonomy in this area, as well as strengthening cooperation with Taiwan in the area of chip development. I would like to say that the issue of strategic autonomy is one of the major challenges not only for the Czech Republic but also for the whole European Union. We've seen it on chips, we've seen it on 5G networks, today on meds. We really need to consider the critical areas where capacity must be built on the European continent, or in cooperation with close allies. I also consider the promotion of excellence, the promotion of human resources in science and technology transfer as priorities, as I have already mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u146	Thank you, Madam Secretary, and we have two factual points here at the moment. Mr Rais came forward first, and immediately after him, Mr Špičák. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u147	Thank you. I have a few notes. I liked a lot of things, but it was general, so I think it's a bit of a problem, I think it should be specified here. First of all, I am glad to hear that the big amendment to the Science and Research Act will come to Parliament, but I have been hearing this for quite a long time. It would be good if you could make a commitment that it will be here within a quarter of a year, because these are basic things, where a number of those sub-issues like institutional money versus money ratio maybe those competitive ones where they would be clearly solved, and here is a consensus with the Academy of Sciences in the sense that we think it is little to receive 20 percent of the total amount to an institution that, of course, ensures some sort of mini-stability for those scientists, and 80 percent of the remaining funds have to compete. I guess it would be wise to straighten it out. Or at least I'd like to hear your point of view, because you've only spoken in general that it needs to be fixed. So it's about how to change it. So it's 80 to 20 so far. Then I consider it important to those institutions that have centres of excellence, so that's ten years ago, where it is necessary to simply restore these resources, because top-notch people, worldly, will come to top technical equipment. Now I'm looking at the time. I don't think I can make it. [[14.30 hours]] I think it would be good to discuss money outside the EU, eventually, as you have spoken, there is a huge cooperation with Asia, with Israel, and this is not essentially covered. So I guess it would be good to talk about the resources that we can get to in this way. Just make sure...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u148	Ambassador, you're out of time. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u149	I'll check in, I've got one or two points left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u150	In fact, Mr Špičák is registered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u151	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, it has been said that science is a priority. When I look in the O.R., the O.R. reflects whether it's a priority or not, right? I could talk forever. I've only got two minutes. I must say, I don't envy the Minister's mission at all. In fact, it is a purely specific political mission that cannot have any practical impact. The problem is so complex and so fragmented that changes cannot go beyond a strong political dictation, and therefore, on my modest recommendation, he became Prime Minister of the Council of Science and Research five years ago, and that is why it finally came about, Karel, through Madam President, with you as a certain signal and impulse of Country for Futur, because there was a strong political signal. We can talk infinitely long about individualities, but if it doesn't have that strong, political, brutal appeal, then things just don't happen. And so I would just like to say two very basic principles. If we don't follow up on science's career progress and career motivation, things aren't going anywhere. And science, like a top sport, can't be done without strangers. If we do not brutally evaluate research organisations by the number of foreign workers, even in the leading positions, we do not have a chance to move forward with research. I would like to point out that there are 30 per cent of foreign workers and 60 per cent of employees at the Max Planck Institute. If we don't go this way, we don't stand a chance. And it is necessary to prioritize research institutes to major universities and academies simply because their organization is simple and can be easily influenced by the state.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u152	Mr. Ambassador, your time for a factual remark is up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u153	The autonomy of the university prevents it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u154	Thank you. Mr Rais is now registered with a factual remark, followed by Mr Zlínský. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u155	Thank you. I will follow up on what my colleague Špičák said, and this concerns the real renewal of the technical means, those centres of excellence. I completely agree that there is a need for foreign blood to come in. Then I still had, or would put a lot of emphasis on getting some outside the EU funds to be co-operation with Asian countries, especially Korea or then Central Asia, that is, Israel, which is just quite a lot developed here, more or less on the basis of volunteering or some personal interest. I was intrigued by the part you were talking about taxes and tax reliefs. I'd just like to remind you, it would probably be a good thing, because I remember a lot of things, 15 years ago there was a pretty good attempt, tax relief, that's when he did it, I think he was the finance minister of Kuba, Dr. Kuba, we made it to some conclusion back then as school leaders with them. It was only found that it was small, that the subsidy, or precisely the tax relief, could have been large. I would recommend that, because it was a political matter from the point of view of the deans, the vice presidents. And then we need to talk about those doctoral scholarships, of course I agree with that, but it needs to be seen in the whole context of finance, which I'd like to talk about in that separate application, in my separate log-in part. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u156	Thank you for keeping time. I will now ask Mr Zlínský to follow Minister Langšádlová. So far, factual remarks. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u157	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm already performing for the fifth time today, but I'd only like to mention one thing. Given the Minister's speech, it was said - or so I understood - that somehow the globalised world was falling apart. I would poke it out, this idea, and we should realize that it will not be a simple process at all, and we should think about the consequences of what it will mean for us, what production will have to be back in the Czech Republic or in Europe, and how to prepare for it. So I just wanted to mention this here, that I consider it extremely important. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u158	He will now speak with the factual remark of Minister Langšádlová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u159	Thank you for your comments, I will certainly respond to some of them. Firstly, not for all organisations, institutional and dedicated support is between 20 and 80. I understand the need to increase institutional support, but it really needs to be linked to the evaluation and the promotion of excellence and the other steps that I have already mentioned here. As far as the amendment to the law is concerned, we have gathered incentives from individual actors. At this point, we have the intention, in part, of having a paragrafo-enhanced text, and we are beginning the debate on this proposal. I'm sure we'll present it to the House. I would like to say that speaking in the case of science and research on political dictation at a time when there are many very autonomous and sovereign actors, such as the Academy of Sciences and Higher Education, I really do not think it is appropriate. We have to deal with these things in cooperation. I believe that representatives of universities, the Academy and others also perceive the shortcomings of the current system. I understand that, for example, the participation of high-quality foreign workers may be one of the indicators of the quality of the workplace, but I would really just be afraid to say more foreign workers - higher quality. Because it really needs to be tied up with how high-quality foreign workers would possibly be. Yes, I support cooperation with South Korea, Israel, Japan and other important entities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u160	We're going back to the debate, but before I give the floor to the next logged in, I'm going to try to load the apology that has run out in the meantime. Berki Jan apologizes from 6:30 to 9:00 for work reasons. Dufek Aleš from 14:00 to 15:30 for work reasons, Vondrák Ivo from 15:00 to 9:00 in the morning for work reasons and Minister Šalomoun Michal from 18:00 for work reasons. Now, President Radim Fiala is ready to speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u161	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, I am glad that you are in the chair because, of course, before I start my speech, I want to address this situation that we see around us. Dear government coalition, you've made a farce out of a meeting about mistrust for the government. I don't remember it in the history of what happened, or what's happening here, I see 20 people there, eight people there, five people there, so a meeting of distrust to the government that decides whether or not this government is going to continue in the Czech Republic, so it's actually organized so that nothing happens. There's a minister behind me, if I'm not mistaken, the one who pulled the shortest match. [[Balash]] Mr. Secretary, it's nothing pejorative. [[The Minister is responding off the microphone.]] Yeah, I know you like being here. [[He's laughing.]] There's a minister here because it's the duty of a minister to sit here. So, we just have a little bit of distrust on the government's story and speeches of ministers who say 16 hours here, how everything's okay, there's really just a little bit of panic, and we, as a government, send signals that everything's okay, nothing's going on. Just like people don't have money, food prices are rising, housing prices are in the bag, actually just a little bit of panic, but otherwise we'd like to send out the signals that everything's okay. One more important thing. You gentlemen from the coalition, and ladies, sorry, you Democrats from the democratic parties didn't even open up the debate yesterday, so that no one could respond to those speeches by ministers, how wonderful, beautiful, great, just like that. So you call this a democratic parliamentary debate on government trust or distrust? What a farce! But we will wait for it, Madam President. You did it on purpose, I applied for the discussion - that's my personal point of view - I applied for the discussion ten days ago through my assistant. Of course, I was the first, including Tomio Okamura, to join the debate. [[A note from the diaper.]] Yeah, but I checked in very soon, no one was logged in. [[14.40 hours]] All of a sudden, it's just my turn sometimes the next day, while I have priority rights, everyone in the government has spoken to me, and they have spoken to say how beautiful, wonderful, great the situation is, and how well we are all in this country. And now I'm going to slowly move on to this speech where I want to say that we're not so well enough to get people to write to us, they're going to write to you, they're telling you, do something. And that's our duty as an opposition to tell you that you're doing it wrong. And you're doing it very badly, because if you do it on average, those people won't scream like that, and you won't have the confidence of 20 percent of this country's company. Only 20 percent of this country's society and citizens. So you're just doing something wrong. And what you're telling us here is how great everything is. Even now I've been thinking about it, when Mrs Langšádlová spoke here, and two opposition professors have been asking her questions here, so we can't even know when the secretary of science and research is going to say when he's going to talk so people can prepare themselves, because it's not on any board. We didn't even know which minister would be the first, which second, which fifth, and you didn't even open the debate so we could respond to them. It's just a disaster. You're making a farce out of it, and I just don't imagine a parliamentary debate about distrust for the government. Discussion is a question - an answer. But with you, the discussion is the answer, the answer, the answer, the answer, then long, long nothing, then some possible two-minute question to a factual point, because otherwise we wouldn't have gotten to that word at all. Now let me tell you here from the position of opposition in which we, the citizens of the Czech Republic, are in an amazing situation in the year of your government. Ladies and gentlemen, every government and every government itself is best evaluated in substance, rationally, on the basis of specific arguments, using relevant resources and indicating them, with so-called resources. Because otherwise, and I'm used to being asked in the media all the time - how do you know? From the Internet - well, who's the source? You don't have a source, so it's just talk, excuse me. So I'm going to try to say the things that I'm going to say here, that I'm also going to source them, so that you know that there's a high probability that there's no misinformation, but that it's just true and nothing but truth, based on clear standards and facts, based on concrete results in those areas where the government's activity has a direct effect. And I'm going to follow it now, and I'm always trying to do it, and most of the time, it's a better and more understandable way of reasoning than just the way of whipped emotions, unspecific claims, even for listeners and citizens, and I'm adding, even when I'm sending out some signals. So, during the time of the Fialův Government, of course, Petr Fiala, income poverty in the Czech Republic increased by almost 100 percent. It now concerns every sixth household. The number of households with income below the poverty line increased by 9 per cent by the end of 2021 to a total of 16 per cent. This is according to the data of the project Life Priceless, on which the Czech Radio, Public Media and the PAQ Research company cooperate, the state in the summer of last year, so it is very likely that the situation in this respect is even worse. The most vulnerable to income poverty according to this analysis are independent seniors, who have a small pension and are unable to pay all the cost of life as if they live as seniors and there are, for example, two. Furthermore, they are single father and single mother. Another 16 percent of Czech households, according to this survey, have low incomes and savings that last for a maximum of one month. So the first argument is that it's not as beautiful, amazing, great as the Prime Minister and all the other ministers have told us. Even from November 2021 to May 2022, income poverty increased by 40 percentage points for single-living seniors. Furthermore, research shows that 43 percent of single-living seniors are currently living in income poverty. 43 percent is almost half of the elderly who live alone and are in income poverty. With single parents, it's about half. This is a very trivial business card for this government. And I repeat, it was after half a year of its operation. The current situation poses a serious social threat to risk groups, Karel Schwarz, President of the Czech branch of the European Network against Poverty and Social Exclusion, also said some time ago. According to their analyses, the Czech Republic already has about a million people living in poverty, which is full of a tenth of the population. A tenth of the inhabitants of the Czech Republic live in poverty. And they are forecasting that this number will increase even further due to the economic adverse situation. And now I must return to the Prime Minister's famous speech: we will not let anyone fall. Now, Prime Minister, the first million inhabitants of the Czech Republic are waiting for you here. First million, and it's gonna get worse. Where are you, Prime Minister? Maybe Brussels. Moreover, the Czech Republic has the peculiarity that the same large group, i.e. another million people, is severely threatened by poverty, which is not quite common in the European Union, added Karel Schwarz from the Czech branch of the European network against poverty and social exclusion. Have you ever noticed that current government officials would deal with these alarming analyses, quote them and at the same time announce what measures they have taken and take to reverse these unfortunate social trends? Well, that's why we're here, that's why we're claiming government distrust and explaining to the government why we're standing here. We are asked by journalists and ministers and some government MPs: why are you doing this, everything is great? It's not. Here are the clear dates and arguments. According to Karel Schwarz, it is also necessary to check that at least a minimum income is guaranteed for all population groups. We know that's not the case. For example, some pensions are very low and many people are unfortunately falling through the social system. That's something completely unheard of on the doorstep of 2023. We at the SPD have been drawing attention to this for years, it is clearly traceable, and most importantly we have proposed dozens of legislative changes that would remedy this situation, especially with regard to helping low-income pensioners - setting up a dignified minimum pension, increasing the basic pension component, a fair mechanism and a way of valorising pensions. All these proposals have been here in the House for over a year and the government coalition is blocking their discussion. Of course, the SPD has already sent over 40 proposals to the House, 40 bills. The government coalition canceled the opposition window, so we may have discussed one proposal in that year and a half. So zero, zero. Just the opposition, as Madam President rightly says, is supposed to sit in the corner and shuffle its feet. But we're not going to follow it. Yet the coalition itself has not yet submitted any government bills in this area, nor do we perceive the famous signals that I have mentioned here that it would prepare them in the near future. Which, of course, is a terrible thing for these people. And, of course, they're not just writing to us, they're writing to you to do something about it. I repeat, Prime Minister, a million live below the income poverty threshold right now, and another million are severely threatened by it. If you want to go around and not let them fall, you can go out. [[14.50 hours]] Regular report of the European network against poverty, so-called Poverty Watch, points out several other warning numbers in the case of the Czech Republic. There are about 9 percent of the population in execution. In some poorer regions, up to 16 percent of citizens, i.e. one-sixth. These are 50,000 old-age pensioners. The full 25% of Czech households, i.e. one quarter, cannot afford a sudden expenditure of CZK 10,000. That means when your washing machine, dishwasher or heating, boiler or something like that, they just don't have what it takes to fix it or buy a new machine. Those families who live, as they say, from paycheck to paycheck, are really at risk of losing their housing as a result of even a short-term blackout or a reduction in one family income, such as illness or injury. Prime Minister, I'm warning you, they might lose their housing. And again, how does the government react to that? Where is the promised social housing law? Where is the revision and reform of the immoral system by execution? Nothing here. And the situation is only getting worse. And these aren't some artificial statistics and cutting numbers. These are all the hard fates of millions of real people, and that's why we're standing here today. Not to drag things out here or to hear about how beautiful, wonderful, great things are. And other alarming data about housing from the same source. Compared to last year's fall, i.e. just before the government's five-police government, very weak households will now pay CZK 1,900 more for housing costs. Lonely retired CZK 1,600 more. The average Prague household will then spend CZK 2,700 more for living than last year in autumn. The average household now spends 48% of its income on housing and food. So-called income-poor households then full of 70 percent of their income, Prime Minister. Just so you know what awaits you in the coming years. And similar statistics published on iDNES.cz from December 2022. So you can see that I am not making this up, but I quote from publicly available sources: There are already 1.3 million of our citizens already in serious financial difficulties at the moment. So, Prime Minister, it's been picked up here. Not a million, but 1.3, and it's fast in a row, so it's rising. You should go out and help them not to fall, as you said in that speech, which, moreover, falls to a large extent through a poorly functioning system of social support and social assistance mainly because of its complexity, and also because of the lack of workers in the labour offices that are overwhelmed and their enormous overload. [[to those,]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u162	Mr. Ambassador, I'm very sorry, and I'm really going to interrupt you. But I have a message here. Ladies and gentlemen, let me inform you that there is a delegation from the Prague Association of Military and Air Assigned Persons accredited in the Czech Republic, led by the Association President, Lieutenant Jörgen Markwarzen Markwarzen, who is here today on a visit to the Defence Committee, so let us welcome you. I'm very sorry, Mr. Ambassador, you will be able to proceed immediately. [[Let's hear it in the hall.]] Thank you and I apologize once again and you can continue your speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u163	I, too, of course, welcome the delegation, but, Madam President, nothing will change what I am saying here that the government is simply doing it wrong, slow and wrong.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u164	I don't expect that. I really don't expect that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u165	Thank you for the floor. I'll keep going. Experts on social policy and social work also confirm here the inexplicability and inability of the system of applications for social benefits and low awareness by the government and government-controlled administrations are the two biggest obstacles that keep hundreds of thousands of Czech citizens trapped in poverty. This is all the responsibility of your antisocial government, Prime Minister. Where is the promised simplification of benefits? Where is she called digitalisation? What did Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka do in a year to correct this condition? Of course, if he's here, he'll be sending signals and telling us how amazing everything is and how everything works. But as we see here from what I'm quoting to you, it doesn't work. How does it deal with the situation of the collapsing employment offices, which in the current staff cannot absolutely prosecute multiple increases in social welfare applications and people have to wait up to several months for their payout? What he advises these people, to whom no one gives a deferment for payment of the loan, for payment of the rent, etc. One more thing on this occasion I want to say what the result of liberal democracy policy is. The result of the liberal democracy policy is that all citizens will be on welfare and all companies will be on subsidies. But it's gonna collapse the state budget. That's wrong. Just the economy of this country and the systems - we don't remove the causes of the problems, but we solve the consequences by giving those people social benefits. After all, it is a disaster when people go to work, work full-time, and they still have to go to social services to support their family and to have housing and medicine. It's just a disaster. Nothing. He's just driving them into debt and execution traps, and he's making excuses for managerial misconduct in the leadership of the entire Labor Office. I mean Minister Jurečka. I'm nothing, I'm a musician, or I'm nothing, I'm just a minister. In addition, two resorts, work and social affairs and as a bonus to the environment. If the situation were not so serious, the actions of government officials would sometimes, or rather often, be ridiculous, but at least that is certainly not me, because, as I said, millions of people are in serious trouble at the end of these problems. And this is more of a cry, an anger, and political criticism, and a distrust of the government, and not for ideological or personal reasons, but, as you can see, these are the reasons that we are talking about here, concerning the millions of people who live in this country. As I have already said, half of single mothers are currently at risk of income poverty or have already fallen directly into it. vloni summer, the server News List brought a four-part series of stories to some of these single mothers. And it's really strong, I suggest you take a look at it. I repeat - server source Message list, i.e. the medium clearly closer, far closer to the government than the SPD. The common denominator of all these stories is that these mothers and their children survive thanks to financial contributions from the nonprofit company of the Free Mothers Club. You hear me well. Not through the welfare of the state, but through the support of a private organization. In all cases, they are honest-working women paying taxes and compulsory insurance contributions. I am only going to allow myself a few descriptions of the situation and the quotes of these women, and I consider this to be very important in this situation. I quote, "I'm having an extremely difficult time. Sometimes I wake up at night and go to the balcony to cry. I am afraid of what will happen and if I can do it," one of these women explains the long-term stress of actually supporting the family. Another example. Four family members, mother and three children, live on a housing estate in a 1+1 panel apartment of 35 m2. After deduction of the housing costs, the mother will have an average of CZK 5.5,000. It is purely mathematically about 40 crowns per person per day. "If there were no nonprofit organizations, we wouldn't have anything to eat and where to live," sums up this lady. She was helped by the Free Mothers Club with a water surcharge and long-term use of food aid from the Kutnohora nonprofit Klubus. And again, she's a lifelong working woman. Where's the state? Where's the help? Where are your famous raised social benefits you're bragging about? Where are you, Prime Minister? Because here's the first particular case of people you shouldn't let go. I quote: "I am now at a time when I am lost, I do not know what to get into because I am concerned about how prices will continue to evolve. It's always wrong at the end of the month. That's what I have to watch the amount of food. I'm dividing one pasta for two days, literally dividing the cologne. If they don't come out, we're about buns and butter. But that's been getting more expensive lately. Meat - we've got him twice a month. There are days when I don't eat alone so the kids can have enough." The end of the quote, which is also a raw and legitimate indictment of this government, to you, Prime Minister, which will be issued for dozens of political speeches. As far as you're concerned, ladies and gentlemen of the government benches and five-wheelers. [[15.00 hours]] Let's move on. The average real wage of Czech working citizens fell by 9.8% year on year in the third quarter of last year after taking into account current inflation. These are data from the Czech Statistical Office. Again, there is no misinformation, I do not invent and quote from publicly available sources. The living standard of working Čech thus dropped by a tenth. This, too, is primarily due to the steps of Petr Fiala's government and its responsibility, and according to the economic experts for the Czech News Agency, when they commented on this data, there is a risk that the inactivity and incompetence of the government will make the situation even worse next year with regard to the decline in real wages, as energy-intensive operations will start firing employees and, as a result of high energy prices, the profits of companies across individual sectors of the economy will drop substantially, which is inevitably linked to a further decline in wage levels. Now I can imagine some economist from the government's warheads coming after me and saying that Mr Radim Fiala lied here. Please, I'm quoting economic experts who have spoken for the Czech Press Office. I'm not saying it's my opinion, even though I agree with their opinion. Just so you don't say anything that's not true again. The government does not know what to do with this situation, and instead of trying to make an effective and functional solution, it is threatening to increase taxes, increase the age limit for retirement, and reduce parental leave and parental contribution. As far as the statement on tax increases is concerned, the government is all but foggy and trying to hide these intentions by alibis saying that this increase will be budgetaryly neutral, that it will not increase the overall tax quota, or that it will only increase by some taxes. When we look at government officials' statements on tax increases in more detail, we will see that Minister Stanjura is talking, quite specifically, about VAT increases and Minister Jurečka about raising income tax by increasing and extending tax progressions, raising excise taxes and raising property taxes, specifically about increasing real estate tax. Of course, it's just the bad taxes, it's not about raising taxes at all. We're just gonna raise the really bad ones, don't worry, you're not gonna get hurt. We're just gonna take a little more money out of your pockets. When we put these statements together, these are plans to increase all existing types of taxes in the Czech Republic, while we have not yet heard a single statement from the government that would talk about reducing at least one type of tax. And there are other uncompromising statistics. According to data from last year's Food Chambers, consumer prices in the Czech Republic have risen by more than a fifth on average over the last 12 months, rising even faster than the overall inflation rate. Prices of many foods, often basic, have increased by more than 50 percent year on year. These are milk, dairy products, flour, sugar, fats, eggs, pork. Agrarian analysts say that, however, during the winter and in the context of high energy prices, their consumption may inevitably become even further more expensive for certain food items of the normal purchasing list, especially vegetables and fruit. We heard the Minister of Agriculture here a few hours ago. I've heard him here about the second time in this term. I think it was because he had a mandatory speech that he said here, and from that speech I remembered a few sentences that are definitely not out of context. The Minister of Agriculture said that there was some sort of panic in terms of food and that the panic caused prices to rise, but that it's all already being adjusted because panic is falling and prices are falling too. So I want to ask you, too, based on what I've read here, when you go to any supermarket, any store, if the same way that panic falls, the prices fall because that's what we're talking about here. Those people don't give a shit about panic. Those people need to go to the store and shop and shop for their kids. And if they just don't have what it takes - if they have 40 kroner a day, of course it's wrong and they don't buy anything at all. And again, how does the Minister of Agriculture react to this? What are the measures he's preparing? What bills or sub-legal standards are being designed to help farmers and food professionals? Honestly, it is very difficult to evaluate this, because a single operative statement cannot be traced to this situation in a year's term. I still remember that at the exhibition in České Budějovice, at the agricultural exhibition, he said that he hoped that it would rain and that there would be enough moisture, which would help farmers terribly, and I saw the terrified look of Václav Klaus the elder, who at that moment looked at him, if that was all he would say in this really bad situation for farmers and foodmakers. I add that economists agree in principle on this, and we say this in the long term that, in addition to the price policy of foreign retail chains, there is also a high value added tax that is highest in the Czech Republic in the Central European region and one of the highest in Europe. It does, as we know, 15 percent, while it is much lower in neighbouring countries. In Poland it is 5% standard, with about a year reduced to zero for some basic foods, and in Germany it is 7 %, in Austria 10 %. So, in terms of taxes on food, we're all freaks. During the whole year of its existence, the Purple Government has not taken any single regulatory or other measures to relieve and help severely tested farmers, food professionals, consumers. In addition to repeating the statement that the market will resolve it when the panic drops. The panic has fallen, the market hasn't solved it. We see that he has not solved food, and especially not in the field of energy, and lately we see that he has failed as well as in the situation of the supply of medicines and medicines. I'm sleeping towards the end. If I were to sum up the government's current action on this basis with one sentence, it would probably be: You proved you couldn't do it. You can't control our state. You cannot work for the citizens of the Czech Republic. You have made the economic and social situation worse in virtually all areas, in terms and in terms of parameters. What can I say in conclusion? I may not be very original, but it offers a completely paraphrase - I wrote the words of Lord Oliver Cromwell here when he dissolved the English parliament in April 1653: You have been sitting here for too long. Please leave and let us work. In God's name, go! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u166	It is now the turn of two factual points. First of all, Vice-President Skopeček. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u167	Thank you very much. I will not respond to the content itself, although of course I do not agree with it. I have noted a number of conflicting arguments, nonsense and half-truths, but I would like to respond to the President's introduction and the kind of wonder of how this meeting is going. The Prime Minister was wondering if the ministers were performing. So the opposition will call for a vote of distrust to the government, a meeting, and here President Schillerová will speak for the plaintiffs, she has had a very long opening speech in which she has not left dry on this government, which is certainly the legitimate right of the opposition, and then probably the SPD colleagues and YES expected the Prime Minister and ministers to sit here as oukropci, say nothing, get scolded, criticized, and watch as the election campaign for Mr Andrej Babiš's candidate is under way. [[15.10 hours]] Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The moment you called for a vote on distrust of the government, ministers have every right to defend, evaluate their work, and express what they have done before the vote on trust itself. President Fiala here argued that everyone here was talking about how great everything was, how wonderful and how everything was watered by the sun. I don't think it came from the mouth of any minister or prime minister. We are well aware that we are living in a time that is not easy, and it is only about whether we accompany the Czech Republic better than the previous government at that time, and that is what we really believe. And your performances and the absence of any alternatives are just proof of that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u168	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Flek is now registered with a point of fact, followed by Mr Juchelka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u169	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm just in the blink of an eye. My colleague took the words from my mouth. Really, this government doesn't create problems. And we all know it here, you know it. There really are problems here. They're in health care, they're in safety, they're really in a wide range of resorts, the problems are here. And as my colleague Mr. Skopeček said, it never sounded like everything was covered in sunshine. That's not true. Ministers perceive these problems and try to solve them. And that's what we see with the drugs. There has really been a gross failure to cope with the situation on the part of the producers and it is once again in the government to solve this problem, and not really to drown in it in some way. And the submission by Chairman Fiala of the SPD that this government is creating these problems, not solving them, is not true. They really are half-truths that are well remembered, but they're not. She'll remember the lie quickly, but to disprove it, it'll really take us a long time again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u170	Now, then, Mr Juchelka, with a point of fact, then I am the one who signed up. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u171	Thank you very much, Madam President. Let's start with the drugs, from the back. When we cross the border in Ostrava, we buy a suppository for children against fever at every pump, not at the pharmacy. And this is simply a fact. I live there, I live there, I do that. As for Vice-President Skopeček, by your means, Madam President, we do not understand this very much as we do here. So when this government says something to the opposition and to the government Members about how it governs and what it does, and then none of them has the chance to respond to those words, even if I say to some to regulate them, even if I say to some to put them at the right and true level, does that mean that's how you imagine some democratic debate? I've been grateful since this morning to Minister Bax, Minister Nekul. And with Minister Baxa, it was a very correct discussion with us as opposed. I didn't call him names. But beware, Mr. Skopeček here even says that the minister must not be criticized? He said they'd be sitting here like an oukropci to be cursed and criticized. On the contrary. We, as the opposition here, are here - all the Members are here to simply guard this government, the executive, criticize it, certainly not complaining, but that has not been done since this morning, I have personally performed here several times and I have not done it. So I would ask Mr. Skopeček very much to sneak the argument out and give it to him, but above all, true things and true information, because I haven't really noticed this here since this morning, we've just criticized your work and your speeches. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] And thank you again, Mr. Bax and Nekul.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u172	Thank you. With a factual point followed by President Pekarová, I will only respond to the colleague in a factual point. Madam President, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u173	Thank you for the floor. I am sorry that President Radim Fiala left the hall as soon as he spoke, because I want to respond, and one example for all, though one could discuss the various sentences that have been said here, to illustrate how he is based on the truth. He criticized that he had signed up for the meeting ten days ago, and only the second day he was going on, he was taking the order, and he was criticizing the way he was holding the meeting. In doing so, the request for a meeting was made by members of the ANO movement on Friday 13 January, and the meeting was immediately convened that day, today we have, if I am not mistaken on 18 January. As far as I'm concerned, it doesn't work out for me that you could sign up for a meeting that wasn't even requested, much less be called up ten days ago. And this is how it is with the truth of many of his statements. Well, let's just say it here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u174	Thank you. Another point of fact has disappeared at this point, so the next one in order... I would like to make a point of fact, if the Prime Minister can replace me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u175	Now, then, Vice-President Skopeček will speak with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u176	Thank you very much. I want to respond to my honored colleague Juchelka. If we want to encourage ourselves to improve our argument, please listen to each other, please print me a tape screen. I didn't say anything about the opposition not having the right to criticize ministers. In my speech, I said that it is legitimate that President Schillerová has spoken here and, in her very long speech, she has made all her critical arguments on the part of the government, the ministers, to the Prime Minister. I was just saying that I am surprised at the surprise that President Fiala has shown here, that, as the government dares to speak, and that argument, often senseless, often semi-true, or even lying, is to stand up to. I was simply trying to explain to you here that you simply cannot be surprised that we do not want to assist in the presidential candidate Babiš's election campaign in the fact that only you will speak here and the government will just criticize, sit and say nothing. That's really not how we're gonna work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u177	Now, with a point of fact, Mrs Peštová is registered. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u178	I think I'll be faster. Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Vice-President, I respect you. Please, I've been begging you yesterday, so don't let this be some kind of election campaign for Mr. Babiš. He's not here. You've already taken the pictures of you that you had here that reminded you of him all the time, probably out of nostalgia that he's not here. He's just not here, we're here. And I think we deserve a substantive debate. And it's useless to keep calling on him here. Let them run their own campaign, he's duly excused if he comes to the vote, like he's logged in, that he's coming to the vote, let him come to the vote. But at the moment, I think the opposition wants to have a substantive debate with you. And the problem is, we don't have a single minister here... One minister, the Minister of Transport... But mostly the questions that were here... Sorry... [[The ministers Balaš and Solomon are still present in the hall.]] But we've already talked about it with the Minister of Law, and we've even talked about it outside, so we don't bother about it. But we're more sorry that there aren't those ministers that we'd like to have this debate with.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u179	Now, with a factual remark, Mr Juchelka is registered. All right, with a smile, yes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u180	Thank you so much, Madam President. [[With a smile.]] I will respond again to Vice-President Skopeček. There. We were here during the Christmas and New Year's Eve dealing with a few things that we pointed out then at the first meeting of the House, by trying to load the individual items of the programme as we were concerned about these things - a lack of drugs, a failed conclusion of the Presidency of the European Union, a chaotic preparation of the budget, where several tens of billions, as Alena Schillerová said, are missing from European funds. That's why we called an emergency meeting of the House, okay? And for the second time, Mr Vice-President, you have said, by your means, Madam President, that we cannot expect a government to sit here and to have us cursed or even criticized. [[15.20 hours]] So I say for myself, I'm not accusing this government here, I can criticize it, because, as you rightly say, there are no austerity, and they can answer us here. But if by your words, and I just feel a little bit of your words, they're afraid to stand up here like us, and they're afraid to answer our criticisms and really respond to our criticisms, so I really think we've done nothing better than call for a vote on trust in this government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u181	As I understand it, Mr. Vice-President is reporting with the facts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u182	I'd like to respond to Mrs. Peštová. Thank you very much. I appreciate you, too. But each of us has been in politics for a while now, and we know that politics is also about certain timing. And while you could have simply chosen any other term, so that you would just choose the term of voting on distrust to the government here to provoke a debate on the abilities or incompetence of this government right now on the date between the first and the second round, don't underestimate me, my colleague, for I cannot conclude that the primary purpose of this meeting is not so much an improvement in the situation of people in the Czech Republic or the search for any substantive alternatives, but that it is certain to create an atmosphere before the second presidential round. Don't underestimate me. There's a way I can do that. To my colleague Juchelek - I don't want to speak for my colleagues who sit in the government, but believe me - because I'm meeting them, so if they're not afraid of someone, you really aren't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u183	Next time, through. It is now registered with Mrs Peštová's factual remark, followed by the Prime Minister. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u184	Thank you for the floor. I'm glad to see the Prime Minister here, because that question could be directed directly at him, because he himself is a political scientist, and I'm sure he'll advise me and tell me his answer to my question. What would you advise your students if they asked you, when the opposition has been trying to do according to its constitutional law all the time, somehow loading its laws, calling an emergency meeting, is constantly neglected by the fact that even those emergency meetings programs are not approved, so there is no other way to proceed and simply convene this meeting? What would you advise your students about how the opposition should behave even more to achieve its constitutional rights? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u185	It is now registered with a factual remark by Prime Minister Fiala. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u186	I would not advise the opposition and advise the opposition, but I would certainly lead my students to respect the rules of parliamentary democracy. And those rules aren't just the rules written, they're the rules unwritten. So, for example, if the opposition hadn't blocked long hours and days of negotiations on the House of Deputies' agenda, if it hadn't been for a number of cases, the opposition had the right, too, but if it hadn't, we could certainly have talked about things that are much more useful to everyone. I would also say to the students that there are government parties that are trying to respect the rights of the opposition, so for example they include regularly opposition windows, they simply try to discuss points in a certain order, while there are government parties that completely ignore the opposition and the opposition is unable to get a year to discuss their proposals. That's what we've been through here, and it wasn't the government parties that are in government today. So let's measure everyone fair and square. Let us also look at our own mistakes and try together if you have the will to cultivate parliamentary political culture. But I volunteered for something else entirely. I was listening to what Mr. Juchelka said here. Perhaps this expresses the attitude of the rest of you in the YES movement. And then I wonder what he's like? Because I've been listening in the media and here about you crying since yesterday and complaining that government members are acting, arguing, saying what the government has done, what has been done in the various departments, and then again, when ministers stop reporting and you can perform, you complain again that government members don't talk. Then we can never please you. We don't want to please you. [[Time.]] But if you want to conduct this debate wisely, ask us material questions and still don't complain and cry here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u187	I beg you to keep your time. Now first, Mrs Peštová, Mr Juchelka is only following her. I would like to make a point of fact first of all to the Member.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u188	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister, we tried all of this. Everything you're saying here, the opposition has tried, it means, she's loaded her points, she's put her laws into the system, which were actually a parliamentary initiative. Those laws have a reference number or not a reference number, but the number in the system is much lower than you put your laws there, which means that your laws are passed on to the laws of the opposition. And you say the opposition window. That's good. But if you look, when was the last time there was an opposition window? Once? Twice? Three times? I don't know anymore. It really was such a small number that I don't even remember. If I take last year's interview, then the 18 of them were eight, ten tops. This means that every week has one Thursday or, respectively, every week is one Thursday when I take the House meeting every week, so there were 18 of them, and you took away our opposition, our interpelations, and those days when there should be an interpelation, so you gave us those extraordinary meetings that we asked to be our points. That's what's been said here before. Why don't the opposition ask for an emergency meeting, we can discuss it there? But who's there to discuss? Only those with priority rights are discussing it because you don't approve of the program. So an extraordinary meeting - zero, zero, nothing. So where do we discuss? So your answer is odd - what you would say to your students. We've been trying to talk the whole time. But where? Where? Tell me the platform, where are we supposed to discuss it with you? We can't do this here because you won't let us talk.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u189	Mr Juchelka is now registered here with a factual remark, followed by Mrs Schillerová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u190	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, here you can see the difference between being in school and learning, and then coming into that practice that's a little different. For example, I had an extraordinary House meeting here on social laws and social issues. The program has not been approved. We could have discussed this. We had drafts of laws here, which I have in the House for the tenth month, and they will not, in my opinion, come to the end of the term, such as raising parenthood and so on, which are typically laws for people. Second of all, it's decency. Decency is also one of those democratic values. It is a tradition with which we approach parliamentary democracy. And you know very well that you have broken the tradition several times, which is one of the foundations of democracy itself, for example, by voting for your staff here by acclamation to look after each other democratically and look into pockets and cards. Decency for the second time by communicating with the opposition, even though I simply do not have ten ministers who will take one hour's speeches, but the fact that they are being discussed and that we can respond to them. Because I don't see Minister Černochová, Minister Jurečka, here at the moment. And I couldn't with Minister Jurečka, even though I had a lot of things and questions to fill him up and ask him how he meant it. And it's also polite to negotiate with the opposition when it's such an extraordinary House meeting to make it work in some way. I remember when it was in the covid period, when Adam Vojtěch was really standing here the whole time explaining vaccinations, vaccination centers, vaccines, medical aids, drapes. You could have asked him anything, he answered you. Now there's a shortage of drugs, antibiotics, and Vlastimil Válek wasn't here, I don't even remember, just at the House emergency meeting, which is what we made him do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u191	Time, Mr. Ambassador. Madam President Schillerová, with a factual point, then follows my factual point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u192	Thank you, Madam President. I'm not complaining, Prime Minister. I'm not whining, I'm saying. Yesterday, you and most of your government signed up with a statement "before the debate was opened." That's a statement. [[15.30 hours]] You opened the debate at 7:00 p.m., that's what we agreed, which, of course, I welcomed that at least at 7:00 p.m., and you weren't here again. So that's your concept of democracy as prime minister, as a political scientist. I read today that you said at the press conference that the opposition is nervous about what this government has done. We sure are. [[Laughter and applause in the hall.]] And most citizens are nervous about whether or not he'll survive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u193	Thank you for keeping the time and another one with a factual remark is registered by President Pekarová. Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u194	Thank you for the floor. You know, I've been in this House for the tenth year now, and yet I still want to respond, through you, Madam Vice-President, for example, to Mrs Peštová. We met in the last parliamentary term in the Committee on the Environment. You were the Deputy Minister at the time, and therefore you were very close to the political events, but I can tell you from the experience of the past and the past, that I really do not remember, and I hope that memory still serves me so much that any extraordinary meeting would be approved to us, its program. I think we were running these lamentations here again. But so that we do not constantly revolve around who has such space and so on, because the opposition window was, like, exceptionally once every six months, perhaps even less often, those bills have been given to us - and there were many more clubs in opposition - so little of us on the agenda that it has no comparison with how generously we approach your proposals and your opposition window. So now I'm committed to reaching out to the Parliamentary Institute, letting these numbers straighten out, so we don't get it black and white, so it's not the impressions, so it's the facts, and so we can all work and live with it once and for all, and not exchange it here all the time as such an endless ping-pong that we can't get anywhere. And there was a rhetorical question - where should we discuss it? Well, you know, co-workers and colleagues, if we hadn't had this debate here since yesterday, which is not going anywhere, there were committees. And do you know what they work for and serve committees in the legislative process? To discuss in detail those bills and solutions to the problems that are bothering this country.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u195	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Flek. Ambassador, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u196	Thank you. I would only briefly respond to Mr Juchelka, when he is really constantly taking his medication out. Yes, the problem here is, it was, but Minister Válek was here yesterday, he was here today, and he commented on this topic. Again, I will repeat that yes, there is a shortage of medicines on the market, we do not only have it in the Czech Republic, it is a European problem and it is mainly from producers. As far as I'm concerned... I understand, I'm a beginner in politics, but I understand the government's distrust of a problem that the government doesn't solve. But there are problems the government is dealing with, and we can talk about it with the drugs. There was a shortage of drugs, antipyretics for children, and 300,000 boxes were ordered. The drugs got to us. And the same thing happens with antibiotics. He's going around really where what, where who, to get these drugs to us in the Czech Republic. That's one thing. Second thing. Until now, the obligations for manufacturers of these drugs have not been properly adjusted. This is now being prepared. Once again, we are in a position to respond adequately to this issue. Unfortunately, it takes a while to manifest itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u197	It is now registered with the factual remark of Mrs Pastuchová, followed by Mrs Adámková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u198	Thank you, Madam President. I would first respond to you, Madam President, that they are committees. But you know that as well as I do. Well, there aren't that many committees on Thursdays and Fridays, so you could have postponed the meeting and let those committees run, Tuesdays and Wednesdays in particular. And since I might get to my speech sometime at midnight, I'd like to borrow a quote from the last term. And maybe there's someone in it. I quote: Trust means being willing to rely on others and trusting them with your future. And I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, that each of you answer these questions honestly and decide how to vote accordingly. Do I rely on this government? Do I trust this government? Can I trust this government with my future, my children and the citizens of this country? End of quote. And you know who said that? I don't know the gestures. This is what Prime Minister Fiala said in his distrust of our government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u199	Mrs Adámková is also registered with a factual remark, Mr králíček follows. [[Member Radim Fiala signals.]] I see you, Mr. Ambassador, to the actual... which is electronically, they have priority, and there are several others. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u200	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Prime Minister, gentlemen of the ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I very much like the exchange of historical moments that anyone has ever said. I would only be very happy if the memorials of the past period realized that at the time of the covid, when no one had a crystal ball, no one in the world knew what was going to happen, so I would very much like you to appreciate the fact, and the fact was that Prime Minister Babiš had set up an opposition Advisory Council for Covid, and there were many colleagues who I am looking at today, whom he listened to, but he certainly did not have more confidence than in them. And that didn't come up. And I find it very unserious, because that's what it really was. He listened to these colleagues, and he followed what they said, and then he said it at the club, and - you weren't here, through Madam President, Master - but it was definitely that he really set up this opposition advisory body. [[towards the diaper]] What they were discussing, I don't know, we weren't invited there. And I would like it to be said that, at a time of crisis, the opposition had a big say in how to speak into it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u201	Mr králíček is now registered, followed by Mr Mašek, all factual.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u202	Madame Vice President, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'd like to respond to you. I welcome the fact that you will give your Parliamentary Institute the analysis, however, before it does, so I would just like to remind you that the extraordinary meetings that you have convened in the last parliamentary term, perhaps even in the past, at least three have been approved by our votes. It was Bečva, where you were immediately clear, it was the stork's nest, where you were also clear, and it was a covid. So it's not true, and it's a lie that we haven't approved any special meetings for you. And as for your statement that we could have had committees today. I'm sorry, but if you're imagining that we're gonna call a meeting about mistrust for the government, where we want to explain our view of the functioning of the government, you're not gonna let us speak in one day, and then it's over, then you should have made a deal with us. But you don't want to make a deal, because I understand, you've got 108, you're gonna have the whole republic in a minute and you're rolling.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u203	Now Mr Mašek, Mr Vondráček, is following. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u204	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will respond to my dear colleague Flek, through you, and the lack of medicine, and how it has responded. Mr Flek, of course, tried to stand up for the Minister and said that the Minister had briefly commented on this and said that he was paying considerable attention to it and that the drugs would be delivered. I would turn to the fact that this thing is more than six months old. The minister here admitted that Mrs Vildumetzová actually spoke about this on the microphone, about the lack of certain medicines for children, already last summer. By the way, after the covid, we have the same experts who advise your government -- they're the virologists, the epidemiologists, and all the others advised us -- they're still the same people -- so they're all alerting us to the fact that when the covid leaves, the flu gets worse. And we didn't know yet - and on a larger scale - and we didn't know yet that MS virosis was coming for children. So when we talked about this last summer, it didn't react at all. Then the drug shortage deepened. And let me just remind you of the great balance sheet meetings - it's piercing amazing - the Prime Minister walking around the ministries, he's walking with flowers in defense, maybe there's bread in the health department, and the result is always the same: we're doing it great, there's no problems, we're doing well, we're not bothered by what we see. The minister admitted that covid doesn't bother us because he died on his own, he doesn't have the clinical significance anymore and so on. So all cards play relatively for the minister without his participation. But unfortunately, the medication didn't respond in time. And when the information was here at the beginning of December, the Ministry didn't do anything, and it didn't start until after New Year's. [[15.40 hours]] So, folks, Prime Minister, it doesn't work well, it doesn't respond well, and unfortunately, it's a common picture of how this government responds to all things. Energy, ceiling, all late, all wrong. Well, you're just failing, and that's why we're here today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u205	Mr Vondráček is now registered with a factual remark, followed by Minister Válek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u206	Thank you for the floor. I was hesitant to get out, because the debate over the past few years isn't really moving us anywhere. But I'm glad if it gets processed, it's gonna be difficult, because every meeting almost included some opposition points, and it's gonna be hard to get back to what opposition points they were. But you'll find that we approved quite commonly. The statistics will be distorted by the fact that the last opposition window in the previous parliamentary term was actually in March 2020, but then began covid, first. And two. We had 121 or how many Senate returns. We've lost a lot of Senate time by the fact that the Senate has been giving us laws. This is not happening during this parliamentary term. I just want to please you with one happy story, because when the previous government was voting on distrust of the government, it was a grémium, and somehow we agreed that we would do the zipper, that we would allow it. Always one opposition, one coalition. It was agreed that the opposition leader, the current Prime Minister Petr Fiala, would appear first, followed by the then Prime Minister Andrej Babiš and then take turns. And since we did what you did back then, our ministers also volunteered first. So I gave Alena Schillerová after Andrej Babiš first. So two of our guys went. And he came to me completely upset Honza Farský, who I dare, that I was completely out of line and that I was canceling all the deals. How is it possible that two perform for YES in a row? And in the end, he says to me, "Radek, do you need this? And he left. And you see, now it's turned around, and you're here ten, fifteen in a row, and you don't think it's weird at all. So I'm just reminding you that if democracy works, maybe next time you'll be in opposition, then it'll change again. So please remember, let's not get involved. In short, you are in a coalition or opposition once, but let's treat each other in a consistent way. [[Time.]] It used to bother you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u207	Minister Válek doesn't withdraw after all. But then followed by Mr. Špičák - he withdraws it. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u208	They're not even gonna... Thank you, Madam President. I was here yesterday, and I'm here today. I will be here, watching the debate, now I have assigned a task to find out what this Mr. Juchelka could buy with a suppository at that pump in Poland, because I am worried about it, the cones must be stored under relatively strict conditions, it is surprising that they are on the pump, and under what conditions legislation in Poland allows it. The second thing I'm dealing with is a substitute term for the health committee. I want us to meet the Health Committee. I suppose that's what all members want, because that's how they get a chance to talk to government officials, and they don't usually have that before. I don't know if my predecessor ever called a health committee at the Ministry and met with officials, but I guess so. Anyway, I want it to be regular now, so I'm looking for another deadline. And of course, online I deal with distributors, I think these are things that are important. And, of course, I follow the program very carefully when it comes to health care. I always show up here. After all, you all know that like me, you have monitors in your offices, and you can do that. In any case, I don't think there's any point in me repeating over and over again that we responded in time. The fact that after the New Year - I know it, by your means, and by your colleague Mašek, but I understand that he has to say it like that, but just then, please, let's not do those things that we say to each other, "I didn't mean it like that." Well, I know you don't mean that, by your means, I don't mean that either, but let's not overdo it. You know as well as I do, by your means, Madam President, Mr Mašek, that Nurofen arrived here before 24 December. That means we started setting this up on December 15th. I'm sure that's not the beginning of this year. Orders of antibiotics that arrived in the first week of this year have already been arranged between the holidays. That's just the way it is. You know it, I know it. I'll be happy to hand over all the papers we ordered. [[Time.]] And I will certainly be happy for every advice and recommendation that will improve the situation in the Czech Republic. [[President: I beg you to keep your time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u209	After all, you didn't have enough two-minute funding. We are going back to the debate in which Minister Balaš with priority rights is now signed up. By the time he gets to the counter, I will load the apology of Minister Rakušan from 16.45 to 17.40 for professional reasons. Please, you have the floor. Minister of Education, Youth and Sports of the Czech Republic Vladimír Balaš: Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I think I will hear Marek Benda's wish and not speak for two hours. I'm more of a telegraphist, and I'm probably not gonna deal with what the Ministry did and what it's gonna do, but it's mixed up, so it's not that special. And I just want to start by saying that the times were really hard, that children in our schools are suffering mentally. The reason for this is first the covid pandemic, then the war in Ukraine, and now that someone is haunted by someone wanting to drag us into war, and I think that is very irresponsible. I don't think it's gonna help children's mental health, and it's a real shame. To get back to what the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports does. So primarily fills the 2030+ Strategy, and in its actions and decisions it likes to come from the data it receives, gradually interprets, and from experimental verification. It's something that we follow up on the development that was the previous one that goes through my predecessor, Petr Gazdík, to Robert Plag and the others. I am glad that both the coalition and the opposition understand that education is important, and I am glad that when we talk about it, and not only in this place, but also in committees or in gallows, there is actually agreement that the only chance to overcome the problems that we have and which are really very objective, the reasons are very objective, it is quality education. I want to thank you for that, because I have to say that I have expected this worse, but it is clear that the opposition Members, MEPs, realize that the future of the Czech Republic is in high-quality education and that we have to agree on this, otherwise it is impossible. I told you I'd be brief, so I'll try to tell you what we're dealing with telegraphically. In this way, the Ministry is currently preparing a long-term purpose for education and setting basic priorities. In this context, we are dealing with the issue of uniform entrance exams and their digitalisation, which I think is very important and that there are certain problems in the system. We're trying to verify the role that the state section is supposed to play and what schools can set for themselves. And I think it's on the right track. What we have recently agreed on is a question that is very important not only for our children, but for the fate of the Czech Republic is the issue of vocational education, which is both in secondary vocational schools and in higher vocational schools. So we agreed within the tripartite framework even to cooperate in the dual education direction, and I think there's something we should have had here a long time ago, but somehow it stopped, so I hope we can set it further. I am glad that there is a consensus not only between the government and employers, but that it is also supported by employees and their representatives. I'm also going to follow up on Secretary Langšádlová a little. You asked how it was with the support of science. So undoubtedly the internationalisation of science in the Czech Republic is ongoing. If you get a job or if you get that information, you'll find that we have a whole range of academic or research institutes that are good enough to actually be applied to by young scientists, and not only young but also renowned scientists from all over the world, and it's becoming more and more common. So as far as this page is concerned, I'm not worried. Our science may not be as effective as it is in Austria or Germany, but gradually the gap fills up and balances it, and I think the trend is really very interesting. [[15.50 hours]] As far as internationalisation is concerned, I would also like to mention the importance of scientific infrastructure. The Czech Republic is one of the few countries in Central and Eastern Europe where such scientific infrastructure exists. Of course, we also support these activities. One of the effects that is important is that scientists from other countries, not only from the European Union, can come to this facility. They can bring know how, they can test here, they can involve young Czech scientists in their activities. So even from this point of view, I think that the concern that we wouldn't scientifically be enough for the world is really odd. At the same time, we are also dealing with an amendment to the Higher Education Act, which the Minister has already mentioned. We do this together, of course, because some questions overlap, so this is definitely important. But in addition to working with the Minister, we also regularly cooperate with both the Scientific and Research Council and the Czech Rectors' Conference. And I think it's important, too. Set up funding in universities, for example, so that assistants working at teaching faculties don't run away from those schools, we consider it absolutely crucial, because without teachers, without those who teach, the teachers, of course, the system could collapse. So now we're dealing with the question of institutional funding for universities. For this we have obtained data, on 16 and 17 February I will discuss this issue at the Czech Rectors' Conference. But in the meantime, I'm going to go to universities in the Republic, and I'm going to discuss it with them separately. It is a matter that is of course very important, and some of the differences that are needed in the salaries of university educators are difficult to justify. In addition to what is happening in the field of science and universities, I just want to remind you that the Czech Republic and the Government of the Czech Republic also support the construction of important infrastructures such as the so-called campuses at Masaryk University, Hradec Králové, UK and Albertov. It is a project that is of course very important and which will help to raise the level of our science in pharmaceuticals or other fields. Indeed, it is a large project, which is naturally threatened by the fact that the prices of building materials and works have increased significantly. Since the prices were elsewhere when the tendered, it was, say, three years ago, four years ago, so of course we are looking for ways to prove what we received from the European Union, and it is up to 10 billion, so that we can use them meaningfully so that these projects can be implemented again in favour of the whole Czech Republic. This is when it comes to science and higher education. Of course, regional education is a key area dealt with by the Ministry of Education for Youth and Sports. In regional education, in addition to the long-term aim of education, we are working to revise the framework education programmes. We therefore want to modernise Czech education at primary and secondary schools and, of course, in the pre-school area. As far as the revision is concerned, we assume that the preparation and writing of the curriculum should be completed during this year with the fact that it will be tested next year and then introduced directly. But, of course, it's a little more complicated than that. It's not just about the paper, it's not just about what we're going to write, but it's also about implementing the plans and helping schools write about the modernisation in school education programs. I think that's gonna work. Last time, in the last revision, unfortunately, communication and persuasion failed, why we are doing such a thing. Let's hope this time we can convince more than 10 percent of schools compared to 2004. So that's one thing. The second thing is, we can have beautiful papers, but we must implement and help schools not only methodically, but also prepare teachers for it. So we also deal with the support of undergraduate education at teaching faculties. Of course, within this system we would like to individualize education and we would also like to support schools in excluded localities, which is also being worked on, the projects are already running. We've got 400 schools in those excluded localities, almost 300 of which are already in the program, they can draw funds and even receive methodological help. And it's perfectly natural. The only way to get rid of the problems of excluded localities is by providing quality education and bringing children to school. So it is something that will help the Czech Republic, even in the social field. In addition, we have also started to support the development of school infrastructure more significantly. Unfortunately, no one has followed demographic developments for more than ten years or the emergence of new satellites around large cities, and we are suddenly surprised that there is not enough space in primary and secondary schools, especially in some areas. So even this question we manage to solve gradually. But it's not something that's gonna be done day by day. You can't magically wave a cane and say simsalabi, the school won't be built just like that. But I think that even in this area we have managed to start building 10,000 places and also restoring the school infrastructure. As part of this support for regional education, the support of directors in the framework of the central support article is also envisaged, the project is already starting to work, it is ongoing and, of course, with other actions. So I think I've exhausted the most important things. I mentioned the review. Maybe I won't waste your precious time any longer. I'm here if you have any questions, of course I'm ready to respond to them. As you've noticed, I didn't sign up until this afternoon, so I hope you won't suspect me of avoiding you. On the contrary, I am pleased to discuss with you that we can exchange views. And I understand that feedback needs to be obtained from the entire political spectrum, because you certainly have your own experience from your regions, too, and I cannot pretend that I am not interested. On the contrary, I'm very glad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u210	Mr Juchelka is now registered with a factual remark and will be followed by Mr Rais. With a smile, Mr. Ambassador. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u211	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear President, by your means, I will speak to Minister Balaš here. Of course, I'm not a school expert at all, and I'm not gonna comment on the individualities you've been saying about education. We have other experts in the YES movement for that. But I really don't like the narrative you're using here about scaring people. I absolutely disagree with this because at the end of February last year, the Prime Minister first used this sentence on CNN Prima News, February 27, and I quote it, which scared a lot of people, because I too have feedback that they were scared, not only older, but also fathers from families and so on, because they did not know what was going on at the time. [[16.00 hours]] There was this sentence - I quote: "We are at war. It's an attack against the free world. We have to do everything we can to stop Putin." Since then, Narativ "we are at war" has been used quite commonly in every discussion program. I also put ashes on my head that I used it in connection with, for example, the fact that we are disinformational, cybernetic in the war, but the triple word "we are at war" when the citizens of the Czech Republic began to dread that we are at war, so it comes from the Prime Minister's mouth. It's not haunting anyone else, it's just you as a government. Well, I hope you turned back just like you did now, on some billboards. And I also say b), if it bothers you, I hope that you will criticize the decomunization as well as the disgusting billboard on which Husák and Babiš are, as well as the billboards of the SPOLU coalition, where they compared him before the municipal elections to Putin. So I hope we're gonna be fair here. But "we're at war," those are your words.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u212	Thanks for keeping time. It is now Mr Rais's turn to make a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u213	Have a good day. I'm not gonna say everything I want in two minutes, so I'm logged in. But I'd follow up on the haunting here. A lot of people here are scared to look at their payroll. Of course, it's excessive, what I'm saying, but we should probably talk about the financial situation here. On the one hand, there were some promises, some very concrete promises made by our previous government, and I can say that these promises, which concerned 150 percent of the gross wage increase, were essentially fulfilled. On the other hand, there's a promise of 130 percent to say exactly, I have it quoted here somewhere, 130 percent of the average gross monthly wage. So last year it didn't happen, this year, I also have the details of how the curve is falling. We were having fun - just on top of everything else this reflection only involves teachers, not teachers. I think it would be appropriate, for example, to remember the statement by the Dean's Association of Philosophical Faculties, when the deans basically talk about the fact that teachers who teach get about -- sorry, who train, they get about 15,000 less monthly pay than those listeners. So there's a very unbalanced situation here, and it needs to be improved. I think that the financial situation is one of the most important, even if there are more problems in the whole school, which should sound very clear on the microphone here. And it would be good if you had a specific promise, so that this promise would be fulfilled over the four years, just as we did. Now I can say that it's just not done yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u214	Hello, colleagues, have a good afternoon. Minister Balaš will want to respond with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor. Minister of Education, Youth and Sports of the Czech Republic Vladimír Balaš: Yes, thank you. I cut my opening statement a little short, forgot about the law on teaching workers. There's still that 130 percent commitment, and hopefully we can work through it. It took us a little longer to get to the first reading at all, so it was only because of this. As far as the Philosophical faculties are concerned, I agree with you. I spoke to the deans of the Philosophical Faculty Association last week, and we discussed it and it really isn't understandable for me that for the same work of a university teacher, they get, say, x and somewhere three times x, because there certainly can't be a reason that education is differently expensive, because the work that is done is basically exactly the same. But on the other hand, it must also be seen that there are the same schools that teach exactly the same range of children or students, and on one they have double salaries than on the other. So it's not just a question of subfinancing. I'll give you an example of law schools, Prague and Brno. They teach almost the same number of children and have double salaries in Brno. So it's still a matter of internal setting up and running the university. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u215	Thank you, Minister. Mr Rais came forward with the facts, and before I give him the floor, I will read the apology. He apologizes to Jiří Kobza from 17 o'clock for work reasons and Jan Richter from 12 to 19 o'clock for family reasons. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u216	Well, the common argument from the opponent is that universities have autonomy and that they do "financically what they want" to do. Of course, it's not entirely true. The slump is at all levels, and if I take the average salary of a lecturer, it's lower than the average salary of basically a university worker who works in the industry. The readings are overwhelming. A lot of people aren't just from the philosophical faculties, but basically, even from the techniques, they're at least deciding whether to stay here at the university, or whether to go to the secondary school, where they have their, well-known, certain. Now the law you were talking about, academic workers, it gives some solid guarantees over class teachers and so on. So the scissors are opening extraordinarily. On the one hand, we want us not to be dirty, to basically be some kind of mental institution, on the other hand, we're slowly driving these people to the cashiers. I think it's very unpleasant. Anyway, I'll leave the rest for my own show. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u217	Thank you. The Minister wants to respond with a factual point. Minister of Education, Youth and Sports of the Czech Republic Vladimír Balaš: I am not saying that this is just a matter of internal distribution in those schools, you are right, institutional underfinancing actually exists and we are trying to solve it. It is true that the Czech Republic gives about 4 percent of GDP to education according to OECD statistics, Germany gives 4.5 but significantly more to higher education. So I'm sure there are some reserves here, and, as I was saying, we collected the data, we're going to solve that question. The question is that universities also realize that the problem is not only on one side, but it needs to be dealt with comprehensively, and I will be happy to help and hope to gain your support. Because the only thing that's really going away is that people from the faculty are going to teach high school, because they have a significantly higher salary there, it's alarming because then they won't really have anyone to teach, and the whole system can decompose. So I'd be happy to cooperate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u218	Thank you, Minister. And now we are returning to the properly signed up for the debate. Mr. Letocha will be the first to speak, Mr. Flek will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u219	Thank you very much. Madam President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, as part of my speech, I would like to express primarily the reasons why today I will vote against the proposal for distrust of the Government, and so I will support our government in continuing to do so. The first of these reasons is that, especially at this time, the Czech Republic has a stable government that relies on a sufficient majority in Parliament and also consists of a prime minister and ministers who can also bear non-populist decisions on their departments. Because at a time when several hundred kilometres from the Czech Republic's borders there is a conflict of war, the indirect consequences of which are directly affecting our citizens, when high inflation literally eats up our citizens' savings and makes it more expensive not only for food and medicines, when the energy crisis both plagues citizens and businesses, and when our opposition is merely feeding citizens' fears, fear that they will not be able to eat, fear that they will have nothing to drown for, and fear of armed conflict in our territory - that is why it is important for me at these moments that the Czech Republic has a government that helps the needy in a realistic and targeted way. I don't want the government of chaos to come back, the government of irresponsible waste of state budget, the government of fear and repression. [[16.10 hours]] The concerns that I mentioned a moment ago are also topics that move the Czech public, topics on which there are no simple solutions, as many people try to tell us. Their solutions are not always simple or popular, but if we want to maintain democratic values, we must stand up for them. I am pleased that our government is on the side of Ukraine, has taken a number of measures to help Ukrajinec in our territory, but has also sent humanitarian and financial assistance directly to Ukraine. We have also sent weapons to Ukraine that can continue to protect their territory from the aggressor. However, several times more than that, the government is helping Czech citizens, whom, indirectly but significantly, the war in Ukraine has made the standard of living worse. I often hear that the government is not helping our citizens, and that is a lie. Last year alone, pensions increased three times, plus the government introduced CZK 500 a month to retire for every raised child. For families with children, she paid a one-off contribution of CZK 5,000 per child. It increased the existential and living minimum, increased and more effective standards for housing that affect housing contributions. Moreover, in order to help citizens as a result of the energy crisis, the government gave CZK 16.8 billion from the last budget of 2022 and to buy natural gas into the state's material reserves for an additional 8.5 billion. She's increased the pay for teachers, firefighters, cops. And I could talk like that for a long time. Who dares to say under the weight of these facts that the government has done nothing for our citizens? I understand that the opposition may have other recipes for managing these crises, but if it claims that the government has done nothing for its citizens, it simply lies. Our country has had a difficult year, starting with the energy crisis, as I have already mentioned, caused by the war in Ukraine, by the upheaval of Ukrainian refugees, with rising prices. It was a completely unprecedented and exceptional year to investigate who was responsible for the management of our country, and our government stood up. She showed that she was capable and well coordinated. Within the Ministry of Industry and Trade, in the field of European energy, we have been excellent thanks to Minister Jozef Síkel. We've managed to put energy prices on the line. Before winter, we had full gas tanks. Another very important result is the successful fight to strengthen energy security and independence from Russia. From the perspective of the Ministry of the Interior's agenda, we are successfully fighting illegal migration. We have increased the salaries of security forces, and we have dealt with the influx of a wave of Ukrainian refugees. As a member of the Security Committee, I must say that the Minister of the Interior does not really spare the opposition. And that's okay. But for the time being, all the tasks and challenges associated with everything that I have already mentioned have been handled by Minister Rakušan very well. In education, our Minister Vladimír Balaš managed to negotiate an increase in the budget for this year, we started construction of new classes and schools, which will accommodate up to 10,000 pupils in the future, while also pleasing teachers who will reach an average of at least 130 percent of the average wages in the Czech Republic. And let us also remember that we have managed to hold a great Presidency of the European Union. For this we are praised by a number of European media and representatives of neighbouring states. I am not afraid to say that we have significantly improved prestige in the Czech Republic. Thanks to the tough work of the government and all those who participated in the leadership of the Presidency, we took advantage of the opportunity and again showed the Czech Republic in a great light. It is a pity that we do not agree with the opposition on this issue either. I'm not going to evaluate the reasons why this meeting has been convened today, so let everyone figure it out. Personally, however, I think that distrust of the government is one of the last obstacles to democracy to which 101 Members should agree that the government does not have their trust. I would like to say that today's caller does not have 101 votes from Members, the only government that could theoretically gain the House's mistrust today is the shadow government. I'm sure we'd get more than the 101 votes needed, but we all know we can't, so at least I'll recommend to the shadow government that it stays in that shadow. By the way, I do not deny the opposition's right to convene this meeting, although 101 votes are not scheduled, but then it makes me uncomfortable that you are using these basic democratic safeguards for political marketing. Last year was difficult, a new year starts, and I wish all of us and citizens of the Czech Republic to be better in every way, and therefore I will continue to support the government of Petr Fiala. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u220	Thank you. The presentation of the Member has raised several factual points. First off, Mrs Peštová, Mr králíček will be prepared. Before the MP gets to the counter, I'll read an apology. He apologizes to Julius Špičák from 17 o'clock for medical reasons. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u221	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I believe your speeches will be similar, so now I'm gonna say it and I don't think I'm gonna have to repeat myself. The opposition haunts people with war. Who said we were at war? It was you! You're saying we're at war. You scare people, not us. You scare people. That's one. Retirement. Please don't take credit for something you have absolutely no credit for. If it wasn't for the current opposition that was responsible for valorization, you wouldn't be here saying what you're doing for seniors right now. Point number two. The colander versus the precious, or your colander, you call the Umbrella versus the precious, it's useless. Go see the employment authorities. Go and see the employment offices and see how these people are falling - there's no other way to say this than on the mouth. On the mouth, really, really, I mean it, I talked to these people because it's pouring on them, and they don't know what to do anymore. They'll all be Lexaurin Lexaurin in a minute. That's three. If you're going to a store like I'm going to a store because I have two kids, so I keep going shopping, they're at that age they eat all the time, so go see how much you can get in that shopping cart for a thousand crowns - what you can buy for it. It's the rising food prices. It's been here before. Well, gas tanks? Let's talk about it. It's not about whether the gas reservoirs are currently filled, because they've been filled almost always in that period, but it's more about how much they've been filled, how much it cost. So I think that - I repeat, once again - that the speeches will be the same, I will not repeat myself again, this was once and for the last time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u222	Thank you, Madame. He will now speak with the de facto Mr králíček, and Mrs Pastuchová will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u223	Madam Vice-President, colleagues, I am very sorry about Mr Letocha's speech. I'm sorry for the fact that he's going on about what happened last night. The speech was full of arrogance, insults and hatred. By your remarks, Mr Letoc, through Madam President, you are pissing off society. You're saying the opposition is haunting society here with war, haunting someone. You're pissing her off against us. You're pissing her off when there's violence, and that's gonna follow you, because what you did for the speech, I think it was a speech that you may have written in cooperation with Krit, with your propaganda team. Yes, you're forbid us to call a meeting of mistrust. We're really not idiots to not know that we don't have 101 votes, but our right is to express our discontent, because you just ran us over again 14 days ago, you didn't want to approve any of the proposed points, and all you can do is degenerate us here, insult us, and blame it on some presidential campaign. But in her opening speech, President Schillerová did not have a word on the presidential campaign. She said a few points that the government is doing wrong, and then listen to Mr Lipavský's hate speech, Madam Secretary of Defense's hate speech, listen to the Prime Minister's speech about us, and who dragged the presidential campaign into the debate. I'm really sorry, and from you, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u224	Thank you. Mrs Pastuchová will make a point of fact. Mr. Mašek will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u225	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I'll repeat myself, but maybe repetition is the mother of wisdom. Dear colleague Letoc, through you. Please write down somewhere on the paper that your government hasn't added your pensions. She didn't add your government, valorization is by the law, so you didn't give the elderly an extra crown. And please read who approved education, it wasn't your government either, it really wasn't. I sat here last term, your government didn't approve. [[16.20 hours]] And what my colleague králíček says, through you, I just have to agree with that. I hope, like last night, no one's gonna yell at us, that we're bullying somebody by acting out. We have 16.20 and got the first discussing from your ranks, but it doesn't matter now, it's up to you. So, all morning again, we have heard the praise of our ministers, how what has succeeded. But it was. But people are waiting for what's going to happen. Now they're really unhappy, they don't want this government, and that's why we're here. If I may ask you, tell me, from those performers, little of the members of our club for the YES movement, for which I speak, which of the Members here, in one word, mentioned the presidential election, as you all of you from the coalition do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u226	Thank you. Mr Mašek will make a point of fact. Mrs Hanzlíková will be ready. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u227	Madam President, fellow Members, to colleague Letoch, by your means. We're sitting together on the Security Committee. Part of his speech to the government's work, it was all watered by the sun, it couldn't all be better. But I'd go to the security committee. There, Mr Letocha, by your means, admitted that, as opposition Members, we are a little bit under the influence of Mr Rakušan. But it's not valid enough, Mr. Rakušan doesn't pay attention. In January last year we Rakušan attention to the problems surrounding the registration of Ukrajinec, you probably called it the recruitment of Ukrajinec here by mistake, but it was a migration wave that was managed, but not thanks to the minister, but thanks to municipalities, regions and individual citizens. So we need to do this again. There are other things that clearly go wrong with the minister, I'm gonna leave all those STAN scandals, just sweeping up traces of the corruption movement, and everything that's going on there, reorganizing NCOZ and stuff related, crappy personnel work. Let us remember Mr Mlejnek, let us remember Mr Knap, recalling from a distance, then he stayed there at the post office. To the post office, refilling the money. The water just closed. There's a bunch of things you can't do. Police collapsed, the deficit of 6,000 police officers deepened by another thousand. 2,600 police officers left last year, 400 percent more. We're running out of overtime money. On the inside, the police say he won't be working overtime in March. The level of police service is down in public. It's just a tragedy. And you've watered it all with the sun, it's great, let's give it up. It's just wrong, Mr. Colleague. You're failing, you're failing this government, and your performance was like a Mars performance completely disconnected from reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u228	Thank you for keeping time. Mrs Hanzlíková will now speak with a point of fact and Mr Lang will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u229	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address my colleague Letocha, through you, Madam Vice-President. He said here that the opposition is causing fear for our citizens. I would like to say to you, Mr Member, that this fear does not provoke the opposition, the fear creates insufficient, completely inadequate and slow steps of this government, which brings these people into poverty, into completely unsolvable social and financial situations. I was gonna say this pension, I'm really gonna mention it again, even though I'm about the third, but it's really important. This government has only implemented pension valorization, it is given by law. Maybe if this government were to decide, it wouldn't have happened. Otherwise, this government has left the population, the poorest and most vulnerable target groups, without help. We've intersected here several times, we wanted to place it as points, but the coalition didn't listen to us. And really those people for the first aid that came in August, actually five thousand support for families, and unfortunately disabled people and even those who really have big problems with some transport, or those who depend on breathing devices and the like, waited until November to increase the mobility allowance, which eventually was completely under-increased - by just CZK 350. Moreover, the government has left these people so long without help that the middle class is basically falling into poverty. I really don't know any other government that would target and fundamentally increase a group of people dependent on social benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u230	I also thank you for keeping time. Mr Lang is registered, Mr Letocha will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u231	Thank you, Madam President. I would also go to my colleague Letoch, through you. It doesn't surprise me, because when I saw it logged in, I expected what would happen next. He's just a tenter. He's just a supporter of Minister Rakušan, and if the devil rides a goat, he always praises STAN and the Home Secretary. I was just surprised because we're on the Security Committee together, so if we were just touching the security issue, I would understand. But he took it out of one water clean, through health care, agriculture, foreign policy, just everything's perfect, everything's beautiful. I feel like I'm in Jiříkův's vision, it's such a déjà vu. Yesterday we were here at this time and were not yet fully admitted to the discussion, today the situation is a little better that we can at least actually respond. But it really is not as my previous speaker, Mr Mašek, said, through Madam President, there are many problems. If I get to one of my speeches today or tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, which I have called the "10 Sins of Minister Rakušan," I will then make clear some of the things that, from my point of view as a person dealing with... or my entire life working in the interior resort, bother me. And what was said here by Mr Letocha - I cannot agree with that. The migration crisis, yes, we managed it in some way, especially those regions, the municipalities did it, the authorities did it, we contributed to it in some way, but it's not exactly ideal, it's not entirely pink. The security situation is getting worse, a huge number of people are leaving the police, as mentioned here, 2,500 exits of experienced police officers, 25 years or more, it is a tragedy of personnel from the point of view of the Home Secretary. The fact that 1,500 recruits came in five years ago... It's like they're not there. 20 percent increased our criminal activity compared to last year, plus 145 murders against last year. Then I may proceed. And I'm gonna have it in my act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u232	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Letocha, President Výborný, will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u233	Thank you. There were so many contributions to me, so I hope I can comment on most of them. First of all, I don't like it when we say that we don't listen to each other, because I understand that in the context of what you say here, sometimes somebody thinks something, and the fantasy works. For example, I said "war fable." I said fear of armed conflict. And I believe that you too can understand - I understand what you were referring to, but I believe that you too can understand the context of what the Prime Minister said "we are at war." Of course, he meant the war of economic, or war of disinformation, so the war of misinformation and so on. That's with the context and the narrative that is happening in society at the moment - that armed conflict will come to our territory and that hopefully we're looking for some kind of goal, that's absurd. [[Excuse me, Mr. Ambassador, I'm asking for peace of mind. Thank you.]] That's never happened here, and that's what the opposition is feeding at this point. So that's what this is about. That's the context of the war. I'll move on quickly. As for the fantasy, I didn't mention anything about agriculture, health care. I mentioned the departments of the STAN movement, yes, I am a member of the STAN movement, and I stand by the fact that the Minister of the Rakušan is doing his job very well, especially in the field of the refugee crisis that was here. After all, they were inspired or interested in how we handled this very well, the Polák, the Němec and other countries of the European Union. There are just achievements you can't take from our ministers even if you're screaming more. I don't think anyone's gonna yell at you today from some bully, but let's listen to each other and be fair at least in that critical assessment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u234	Thank you. Now with Mr Výborný in fact, Mr Exner will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u235	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear colleagues, I would first like to respond to Mrs Pastuchová through you. Let's tell these things truthfully, in full. Yes, you're right that this current government has not prepared and has not brought here the so-called education that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the government have begun to pay their mothers from January 1st, that's the 500th for a raised child. This has indeed been voted in the last House under your rule. But it must be said that the proposal itself, the people's people, KDU-ČSL, was first tabled as an amendment in 2017 by President Pavel Bělobrádek. Then it happened under my Presidency, then under Marian Jurečka's Presidency. I think we've presented this place at least four or five times. It has always been rejected by the government of the YES movement and social democracy in cooperation with others. Only at the end of the parliamentary term just before the elections and, in spite of the Minister of Finance at the time, did you support this proposal or voted on this proposal. It's fair to say it like that. That's what happened. And we're happy for that. Yes, you're right in that it's not something that this government would push through. But we are happy about it, and from the beginning, among other things, there were KDU-ČSL votes, but also the ODS votes that voted in favour of it in the last Chamber of Deputies. So that's one thing. Second thing. I would very much like to ask that we rationalize the House's negotiations a little bit. If we respond to what has been repeatedly explained here, for example, why yesterday the President acted as he did, we will not really get some sensible end to today's negotiations. Let's try not to react repeatedly with the same arguments to the things that are being lectured here, and move on to some end. Finally, on the basis of the agreement of the Presidents of the Clubs of Parliament - also the President, your Club of Deputies, the ANO movement - I will, if I may, finish the procedural proposal, Madam Vice-President?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u236	If my colleagues don't have a problem with that, yes, please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u237	Thank you. So that we can actually vote today on the vote of distrust to the Government of the Czech Republic, as the title of this meeting sounds, so that we can now vote in a procedural manner that we will act after 19 and vote after 19 or 21 or 24 hours. Although I do hope we can get to that vote before midnight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u238	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'll call in the co-workers from the lobby. We have a procedural proposal here, I'll repeat it. The proposal is that we would negotiate a vote of distrust to the government after 19 and vote after 19 and 21 and 24 hours. [[Member Benda states off the microphone.]] Yes, that's right, thank you for the heads-up, after 21st and 24th o'clock. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 4, 172 Members and Members signed up, for 132, against none. The motion was accepted. And now we will continue with the factual remarks. Mr Mašek is applied for a factual remark, Mrs Pastuchová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u239	Madam President, fellow Members, first...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u240	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. Colleagues, colleagues, esteemed colleagues, please remain calm! If you have any conversations, please move them into the foyer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u241	First of all, I think I will respond to the absurd challenge of my colleague, the Výborný, by your means, to not discuss the facts in order to speed things up. After you've been here, Mr Výborný, through the President, actually called us this way, so when we couldn't say a word here all last day except for the priority rights at the beginning, it really doesn't seem right to me. And now I would also like to say to my colleague Letoch, who here, in a factual way, has followed up my previous speech and praised the migration solution here, once again, I have to say that we have managed to cope with this migration thanks to citizens, municipalities, captains and so on. However, the registration was wrong and we are fixing it now thanks to Lex Ukraine 4 and 5 and suddenly we promise that we will really have registration. Until now, we don't know if we have 150 or 200,000 Ukrajinec here. It can only be estimated by the arrival of children in schools that were half as high as expected. The same has little to do with the obligation to adjust your relationship with health insurance companies after 150 days. There it also did about half of the estimated number of Ukrajinec, so here the minister, it's a shame he's not here, he failed. [[The noise in the hall lasts.]] And the illegal migration. The fact that we've been holding the slovakia-Czech border for two months now that we've got zero seizures of smugglers is just a bit of a reverberation, and it's reflected in the fact that there won't be money for overtime cops. So everything we do, or this government does, starts late, and then continues to make bad decisions. [[Time.]] I'm bohužel so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u242	Thank you for keeping time. And now she will speak, in fact, as so far as the last Mrs Pastuchová has signed up for the case. And once again, once again, colleagues, please move your conversations into the foyer. Thank you. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u243	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Then I will respond to my colleague, Mr Excellent, by your means, where he warned us not to have any factual points. I'm sure we'll have them, Mr. Colleague. Because, as Mr. Mašek said, we sat here all day yesterday, one of us, until 11:00, I think, I don't know if you were sitting here. And I'm going to borrow the words of a colleague from the coalition when I was 12. 1. at 360 degrees, Mr Kohajda said that discussions are the standard of democracy. Then I'll follow it. And another thing, about your education. I merely pointed out to a colleague who was not here during the last parliamentary term, that the educational, as he said, did not approve this government. It was not approved by this government, it was approved by our government, and it was proposed by Minister Maláčová. And you're actually doing the exact same thing right now, because if we remember last week and the nicotine bags that are now running in all the newspapers, as you approved them, two of these proposals have been on the table since April from our MPs. So just take what's really yours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u244	Thank you, that was the last point of fact so far. Mr Flek will now appear in the debate. Mr Hájek will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u245	Thank you. Madam President, fellow Members, Minister, I will not delay. I've made several comments about the facts here. I will just say briefly that by voting, I will support the government, and it is because I think that it should be four years from now when anything is proven. Not twice a year. For me, I think it's unacceptable for me to judge the government for problems it didn't create. So by my vote, I will support the government of the Czech Republic, the government of Petr Fiala. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u246	Thank you. Mr Jiří Hájek, who I do not see here, and Mr Exner is next, Mrs Šafránková will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u247	Madam President, honourable ministers, ministers, fellow Members, we are here today because of a motion to voice distrust to the government, and I consider it my duty to speak up and to say why the government of Petr Fiala has my confidence and should continue the work to be done so far. But I'd like to ask you a few more questions. The last vote on distrust brought about by the opposition four months ago, and the government maintained its trust. What happened in those four months? What serious has the government done in that time that the opposition is calling an emergency meeting today? It is a committee week, and today and yesterday we were all supposed to have parliamentary committees. I mean, not all of them, because there's one MP who's not a minister and he's not a member of any committee, subcommittee or committee, and he's usually not even in plenary, he's not even here today, he wasn't here yesterday, and if that's okay with one, what if we all were? Would an empty House be? Or what if no one ever applied to any committee, subcommittee? Would that be okay? Wouldn't the committees even set themselves up for the entire term of office? And why is our work in committees blocked today and yesterday by extraordinary meetings? Ministers and 199 Members are wasting their time, and no one seems to seriously expect the government to fail a mistrust test today. Yesterday and today, it was said several times that you had to convene an emergency meeting to criticize the government, express your opinion and ask ministers. But that's what you do on committees, you do it in plenary when you discuss any law, you do it every House Tuesday when you discuss the agenda, when you propose a number of other meeting points for hours, and you do it during interpelations. In addition to that, you have four journals in the group, you have television, two radios, dozens of magazines and two Internet news portals, which no other party has. I would react a little, through Madam President, to Mr Mašek of the Security Committee and his comments today on the krit. This is, of course, the Prime Minister's Crisis Information Team. It is right that the Ministry informs about its activities, I see nothing strange, that it expresses the Minister's political opinion of course, I see nothing strange about the fact that such a team has created, and I see nothing strange about the fact that he has made a billboard somewhere. I'm asking if what we're doing here today is that job for people you love to talk about. I think that this is a rather expensive PR campaign for state money and for the time of ministers and Members who could have done something more useful. Now I would like to say why I will vote in favour of the government. I would like to mention the successful Presidency of the Czech Republic in the Council of the European Union, for which we are reaping praise from the leaders of the whole European Union, and although preparations under the former Prime Minister indicated disaster, the government of the five-wheelers managed to cope with all the complications that were unexpected and which came with the Russian war in Ukraine. Within our Presidency, we have ensured the joint purchase of gas and the ceiling of energy prices, the proposal for a voluntary European reduction in gas consumption has been reached within a record six days, we have provisionally agreed on diversification of energy supplies and the increased use of renewable energy sources. The war has shown that energy security and climate transformations go hand in hand, because more energy from the sun or water means less euro for dictators for gas and oil. Furthermore, we negotiated the approval of European sanctions on Russia, and in December we approved even the ninth package, despite the repeated obstruction of Hungary. We managed to unblock the access processes with Albania and North Macedonia and we dragged Croatia into the euro area and the Schengen area. As a result, our citizens will no longer be delayed by sea-going checks on holidays to Croatia. One of the highlights was the historically first European political community summit to be attended by all the friendly European countries, and thus Prague became the centre of the political events of the entire continent. Secondly, I consider the government's fundamental success to be a managed migration crisis after the outbreak of the war in Ukraine. In the beginning, when I saw the numbers of refugees, the development, I thought it would be impossible to manage without seeing any beggars in the park, some mothers with children sleeping somewhere on the subway, but the Ministry of the Interior, under the direction of Minister Vít Rakušan, showed Europe how quickly and effectively it can be registered, accommodated and incorporated into the society of almost 400,000 Ukrainian refugees. Moreover, with time gone by, it turns out that, thanks to the high level of integration of Ukrajinec into the work process, we are getting more money into the health and social system than the Ukrajinec are drawing from it. And I think that some of the young Ukrajinec are likely to stay with us, and they can help us in the future and in the financing of the pension system. The Czech Republic has not only helped Ukrajinec, but also gained. Opposite politicians say our government doesn't think of our citizens. I don't agree. In 13 months, the government increased the minimum wage so that the basic hourly wage was above CZK 100, increased the salaries of police officers and security forces by 10 percent, reduced energy prices and contributed to households' growth. The government has approved a one-off contribution to children, as aid in the energy crisis has introduced an austerity tariff and has put a price on big companies, facilitating the construction of small solar power plants so that many people can have their own energy production. The government protected our citizens against illegal migration by introducing temporary border control with Slovakia when needed. Here again, through Madam President, I would respond to Mr Mašek. Yes, the fact that there are almost no seizures is the result of these checks, which were simply successful and that we dammed the migration route through Slovakia. The government is also modernising the army in order to better protect the security of our citizens and, at the same time, is steadily increasing defense spending to meet its commitments towards our NATO partners. Last but not least, during this government, pension was increased three times according to the law last year, foster benefits and the amount of living and existential minimums increased. But, of course, it is a time of life, and there is a great war in Europe that affects prices and economies around the world. In such a situation, I do not understand the contradiction that, on the one hand, the opposition is wondering about the budget deficit, and on the other hand, we hear from opposition politicians that even more money is to be distributed, perhaps the fare and other things are to be reduced. On the contrary, I think that in such a situation it is very irresponsible of the opposition to scare citizens and excite emotions. Understandably, we all bear war in a certain way. And next time, I would very much like an emergency meeting to be convened for a really serious reason, or if the opposition had any reason to think that the government would not get confidence, and especially if the chairman of the party that called it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u248	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Your performance raised several factual points. First of all, Mrs Adámková will speak, then Mr Brázdil. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u249	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sad. I'm sad about what Mr. Exner has done here. By what right, Madam Vice-President, are you making fun of a man who has overcome almost his own death? [[Highly:]] By what right?!! By the right of arrogance, cynicism and complete, utter misantropy. Please, on that occasion - but thank you, Congressman, because you have said one very important thing here, and I want to appeal to you all again. When I'm back here, with humility, begging you to take on our transplant law regarding bone marrow donors, please don't take it nicely again. But then you have to realize that serious diseases, including fatal diseases, are not meant for those out there, but also for those in our country! So I would very much like you to look with humility at the life of a man, to the fact that he is very deadly, and not to make it a completely inappropriate political game! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u250	Mr Brázdil will now speak with effect, then Mr Mašek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u251	Thank you for the floor. Dear ladies, gentlemen, it seems that the window, the two-day window, the government and the government are about to end. And nothing against anything. However, like a red thread, there's this huge misinformation. The government wants to fight it, and all of you almost, and now Mr. Exner at the end, you've touched it, you're spreading the misinformation. And the misinformation is called that this has been convened on the basis that it wants to support a candidate, I won't even say who. Listen to me. The idea came from our club last week. We said the reasons - because you didn't want to hear us. Okay, it's possible, so let's vote on trust. Please, we all signed it on Friday, or most of it turned in, but none of you knew, and if you knew, you had information somewhere upstairs from him - no one could know who would get into the second round. Your information, your misinformation, that this is done on the basis that someone wants to support themselves is odd. Do you understand me, please, in this logical argument? We didn't. For the professor, I'm sorry, the lecturer once more. [[The President: through.]] Through, again. We said last week, it's too much, we're gonna take a vote of distrust, or we're gonna call a meeting. We signed it, we turned it in, but at that point, no one knew who was going to be in the second round! So this can't be... [[Member of Freedom from the place: It was likely.]] It was likely, he calls me a colleague. One more time. Sometimes one of those candidates even said he wouldn't make it to the second round. But you knew it was likely, colleague. [[President: Through the President.]] Through. It's misinformation. And you see how fragile that line is. [[Time.]] And that's it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u252	Thank you. I would like to make a factual comment on Mr Mašek's speech, and then Mr Babka will speak. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u253	Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond, by your means, to honored colleague Exner and to recall the meeting of the Security Committee which he chaired at the time when I was abroad and was not present at the Committee Chair, Dr. Žáček. And that's where the KRIT team was introduced, represented by his boss Mr. Hanousek, explained to us briefly how it works. For you, it's a four-man team to monitor radicalization at state offices, ministries, etc. In that spirit, he may be dealing with a weekly frequency with workers around Mr Klíma responsible for misinformation or by suppressing disinformation on the government. And there the man explained to us that they, the Decomunization Association and the Minister, were behind the collage, that he was behind it, what was in the bag with Putin at the Ministry of the Interior building, and he even told us the purpose. And he said, unfortunately, the purpose was not fulfilled, that they imagined that the protesters were supposed to meet there and that they should be taken away from that sense of patriotism so that they would be ashamed of going there. They'd go there for energy and their problems. Well, that's one thing that sounded on the microphone and it's proven. So it's the Decomunization Association. So that's where the contract was. The Decomunization Society worked on the commission of the Home Secretary and his co-workers, where money was paid for, hanging out, and all that, for two weeks, this was guarded, and then it all got swept up, that it was actually on the back of the building, so nothing really happened. A little laughter. Although a criminal report was filed on this, which dealt with NCOZ, which, oddly enough, is subject to the Minister and the Police President. On the issue of migration to the Czech-Slovak border. It solved the cold, it solved the fact that those people told themselves that they stopped going there. The migration has eased over the winter on other routes. That's all, the reaction to you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u254	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Babka is on the verdict, then Mr Exner. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u255	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I already said it here yesterday, but I can't do it again. I am simply surprised that the members of the STAN movement are more or less recycling the same speeches in which they praise the government. I can't imagine why they're doing this. They must have a problem on their own in the movement, or worse in the government, when they have to recycle one and the same speeches here, we have heard about 16 similar commendations on the government, as it does well, as everything here is watered by the sun. And I think that - even for colleagues - we are glad that we have had these performances.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u256	Thank you. Mr Exner will now take the stand, then Mr králíček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u257	So there's no misunderstanding. Of course, I meant President Yes, Andrej Babiš, who is not here and is not on any committees. Otherwise, to Mr. Mašek, we can meet over the minutes, I didn't hear the words in there, as you say, I don't think that's exactly what you're saying. And I think the banner at the Home Office wasn't awful, and I liked it, too, and I think he expressed our opinion quite well.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u258	Thank you. Now, Mr králíček, with a factual remark, then Mr Vondráček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u259	I would like to respond to Mr Exner. However, towards Mr Výborný, who unfortunately is not here. I really like the fact that Mr Excellent asks us not to react a hundred or x-times or to bring up things that have already been answered here. And I beseech Mr Excellent, please also President Cogan, through Madam President, please do not insult us a hundred times, do not pull the same lies a hundred times, do not hit us a hundred times, and we will not do it too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u260	Thank you. Now Mr Vondráček with a factual remark, then Mr Flek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u261	A very brief response to Mr Exner, who called on us to choose a more serious reason for calling a meeting to distrust the government. I simply do not know the more serious reason than the threat to the word in the Czech Republic. And you didn't hear our interpelations, you didn't place a special point, you didn't hear us in an emergency meeting. I got one arrogant response to my interpellation from the Home Secretary who wasn't there. Hats off, he was there last Thursday, and at least I learned something from him. But in any case, I'm not the only one - and I'm going to talk about it in my post - I don't know a more serious reason than what's happening than the pre-prepared narratives. And that's the answer to what my colleague Milan Brázdil said here. This isn't disinformation spread by a colleague named Exner. It's a pre-prepared narrative. That's what it's called now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u262	Thank you. With Mr Flek in fact, then Mr Mašek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u263	Thank you. I just wanted to respond briefly to my colleague Mašek about border patrol. It fulfilled its purpose, because if we take it apart, active backups helped police to guard the border mainly in our country in South Moravia. And the loss of migration, the migration wave, it wasn't just because it was cold, it was really because the borders were guarding. And unfortunately, or thankfully, as it turns out, migrants find new ways to get to Europe. And he's finding new routes. And by guarding those borders, it's really diverted. And we know he's trying to get into Europe. But it's not through the Czech Republic anymore, thanks to the guarding of those borders. I myself was there with Minister Jana Černochová, where we were at the detention centre in Břeclav, and it really fulfilled that purpose. The hlídka was active both from the military side and, of course, from the Police of the Czech Republic. Then I would like to respond briefly to Mr Babka. We're really not puppets in Stan. We really don't dabble what somebody's telling us. And if you've listened well to my colleagues, it doesn't seem to me that they're saying that everything is watered by the sun. They are trying to argue what could be led by the ministers of Petr Fiala - and perhaps by the perception of the surrounding area - behind us. And that's why I'd like you to forgive yourself for making such a point that we have piárists who are preparing it for us. It's not true. Really, as you can see, I'm trying to talk completely without paper, and I'm trying to respond to the things that are going on here. And my colleagues are the same. [[Time.]] And they're really preparing it for themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u264	Thank you. Now, Mr Mašek with a point of fact, then Mr Lang. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u265	Thank you. Just a few responses to my colleague Flek, through you. We talked about everything being watered by the sun, in relation to Mr. Letocha's speech, through your way, which was actually watered by the sun, which I would not dare say. As far as border assistance is concerned, it has indeed fulfilled its purpose, it has fulfilled it after two months, and then the seizures have fallen rapidly. It's about the quick reaction. If it makes sense to prolong, which it hasn't, and it's been extended almost in full, now it's just random checks, which is good. And other than that, the pressure on it is important, and I'll be glad if your government does it to keep an eye on the Schengen border, that's a lot to talk about, but so far, there's a promise from you that maybe sometime in the spring you'll increase the number by a few dozen police officers to protect the Schengen border. So this is where I'd like you to be more radical. To Mr. Exner, through you. It's so weird with the KRIT. I have pointed out triangle Rakušan, KRIT and Dekomunizace.cz And I said that in connection with the collage you said you almost admired. And I'd like to mention that now. Unfortunately, the Dekomunizace.cz , to which some money flowed from the Ministry, where the order came to make allegedly three collages, two of which were not posted, was posted only the one on the back of the Ministry, so it cost many tens of thousands of crowns. The security of the fun also cost tens of thousands of crowns and two police officers were blocked 24 hours a day. So it's not that simple. It's in every context. And the last link is that Dekomunizace.cz is behind the hanging of the defensive banner, which actually undermines the possibility that Slovák - Czech citizen can be president. And friends, if there's a connection, that would be very sad.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u266	Time. Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mr Lang with a point of fact, then Mrs Mr Mračková Vildumetzová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u267	Thank you, Madam President. To my colleague Flek, through you. You know what? If the minister were to speak, one of the representatives of the tent town spoke, we would understand that this is simply some kind of assessment of the situation. But it's just 15 or 16 celebratory speeches, when you probably didn't exactly say that everything was watered by the sun, but it's just all great. I don't know if you live in any other part of the Earth than we do. Just if you live on Mars and we live on Venus? I don't understand. And to my colleague Exner, through Madam President. There are a number of fundamental topics. Just like you touched the banner you were happy with. Then in my performance, I even actually have proof that the Home Secretary, who told us that he had nothing to do with it, actually gave it to the Decomunization Association. The banner that was posted on the back of the Home Office doesn't matter who was in that bag, even if there was an Eskymák, it was just, from our point of view, the dehonesting of the state symbol, the state flag. The fact that it was finally postponed because it was on the back of the building is so smiling. But I am more interested in the fact that, as my colleague Mašek said, through Madam President, that one banner cost CZK 70,000. And there were three of them. One was able to hang up, one was supposed to be in Old Town Square, one was supposed to be in Wenceslas Square. So three times seven is 210,000 crowns. It was paid from the state budget, from the budget of the Ministry of the Interior, probably, these games. And I was wondering if the Home Secretary might be so cool that he might say yes, I made a mistake, it's not quite the same, and he's gonna pay it out of his own way, he's gonna send it to the singles, he's gonna send it to some charity or charity, the money. Because there really isn't enough money for 210,000 crowns. And the fact that the police patrol was standing there, we were asking about the security committee, for 14 days, a two-man police patrol kept an eye on this banner for 24 hours, so there would be no breach on the back of the tile shop - The Home Office, I find that so strange. It was justified to us that they were security officers. [[Time.]] But they were missing somewhere else, weren't they? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u268	Thank you. In the meantime, Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová will speak with one final point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u269	I'm taking the liberty of reacting, too. Colleagues, colleagues, yesterday when I performed here and wanted to respond to the Minister of the Interior, it was denied to me, as it was denied to all 200 Members. And I still don't have to repeat myself with the fact that it is in the chair whether or not it opens up the debate. If Mr Bartošek had said that there was no agreement between the presidents of the parliamentary clubs, that would have been correct. But it is always at the chairman's meeting when he will open the debate. I would like to highlight all the ministers who have been here today and have done so and have had the debate. I think it was much more effective. But it is not the Minister of the Interior, Vít Rakušan, who did not want the debate to be, and must speak for him here at the moment, who defend his work, such as re-establishing controls on the Czech-Slovak border, to which we have called him on the Security Committee far earlier. He didn't react at all. He didn't respond until after the election, and only then did he reinstate the controls. But it should have been a long time ago. At the same time, I would like to mention that this government does not go to the regions at all, it does not go to the regions. Remember the last government, she went to all the counties, she was interested in all the problems in the regions. It doesn't exist at all. And the Prime Minister's inspection routes that he's coming to the Department of Health, having a cup of coffee, having a cupcake... I'm sorry, I think these trips should be in hospitals, they should be in employment offices, they should be where the problems are to be dealt with. But it's not like that at all. And it's so sad. Because I don't remember a government like that... The government is just arrogant and obnoxious. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u270	Time. Thank you. With a point of fact, Mr Exner is signed in, then Mr Flek. And before I give him my word, I'll read the apology. He's sorry... Sorry. Mr Berki takes his apology back. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u271	I'd like to respond here to the fact that the banner was specially guarded somehow. It's not true. The Ministry of Interior building is a protected building in a guarded regime, so no extra costs have been incurred here. It also sounded on the Security Committee. So I'd like to ask that we don't bring in this kind of misinformation or untruth. And otherwise, through Madam President to Mr Mašek, I don't really understand that... yes, the minister had a banner made with Putin in a bag, but I don't understand the donkey's bridge to some other banner with Husák. I don't understand where this is coming from and what the Minister has to do with it. If it's the same company, please. But what does that have to do with anything? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u272	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Flek will now make a point of fact, then Mrs Ochodnická. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u273	Thank you. I'm really just being factual with my colleague Vildumetzová. It's not true. It is not true that ministers do not travel in regions, regions. Only I personally got to the South Moravian Region the Minister of Education with my colleague Jana Krutáková and Martin Hájek to go around the schools. We've got... There was Minister Jana Černochová in the South Moravian Region. The Minister of Industry and Trade Jozef Síkela is also invited to the South Moravian Region, where we have planned trips to companies and businesses, whether it be a medical company or even a foundry. So they really drive around the county. Now it's up to you to ask for it. I think the communication must be mutual. That's why I don't understand why you say he doesn't go around the county. I mean, he drives around the county. And already there was Minister Kupka in the South Moravian Region at the invitation, we discussed highway I/73 speed. So the ministers really go to the South Moravian Region for me very often. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u274	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, with a point of fact, Mrs Ochodnická will speak, then Mr Mašek. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u275	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I would also like to respond to Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová and to the trips of our ministers and members of the government to the regions. I myself took several trips to regional hospitals with the Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek. These trips were also attended by representatives of the founders, i.e. regional authorities or city authorities. And the Minister on his calendar regularly, and every month, he has a few dates just intended for visits to organizations, hospitals and others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u276	Thank you. Mr Mašek will now prepare Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u277	I would like to reply to my colleague Exner, through you. The decomunization, it's not a company, it's the Decomunization Association. and actually has its place, it has its statutes, and it also has its purpose. And the filling is contained in that name. And nothing against it, of course. So here I'd just like to say, if there was cooperation with the Decomunisation. cz to create a collage with Putin and with two national flags, so just a question was asked here, and I said it here this morning in a factual way, whether cooperation was also on the banner, which dehonests the possibility of Slovák, a Czech citizen, or questioning the possibility, being the president of this republic. And I said it here, and then the parliamentary rapporteur for the Ministry of the Interior approached me and brought me the correct answer, where the minister said that he had nothing to do with this second event and that therefore the client was not. That's all. I'm trying to be correct. I'm answering that. I believe, or I want to believe, that this was the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u278	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová is the last one to be registered so far. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u279	Well, thank you. For the Member and Member of the Coalition Camp. I hope they listened well to me for saying that the government doesn't go to the regions. The government has a prime minister, currently 18 ministers, historically the most. And I've seen as the governor that the entire government, all ministers, has arrived in our Karlovy Vary region. We sat down to the problems of the Karlovy Vary Region. And I can tell you that because of that, we have a military, police school, three sections of the D6 are finally being repaired after 20 years of the Imperial Spa and we have an investor named BMW. We met, and then the various ministers went with the various deputy ministers and councilmen. I think that the government decides on the government and that it's not that the other minister just raises his hand, and that he should also know what problems the individual regions have. That is why I am calling on a government that has been in government for over a year and has not been in one region as a government. So I was telling the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u280	Thank you. Mr Kuchař has made a point of fact. And before I give him my word, I'll read an apology. Jan Berki apologizes from 9:00 to 5:30 for work reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u281	I would just like to set the record straight with what has now been said by my colleague. BMW, my colleague - you were at the signing of the memorandum. You've been in the chieftain's office for, like, a week. That's the first thing. Yes, it was arranged during the previous leadership of the Karlovy Vary Region. And please look at the date you were signing the construction memorandum. Yes? That's the first thing. The second thing is - it's not true that there was no minister here. The Minister of Education was there twice. First, Mr. Gazdík, second, Mr. Balaš, and he was there, of course, and you were there, too, Mr. Válek Health Minister was there. So don't talk like that, because the Karlovy Vary County really isn't forgotten. And I understand you want some credit here at the House, but please at least tell the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u282	Thank you. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová wants to respond to the facts. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u283	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Kuchař, through Madam President, what you have just said here is a huge foul and a huge lie. Do me a favor and bring me the date of signature of the memorandum. I've had at least a hundred meetings for the BMW. And it was very, very hard to get a BMW to come to the Karlovy Vary Region. And I'm proud of it for doing it. But now that you're in government on the edge, even though you didn't win the election, and we won by 11 percent, I didn't see you bringing an investor to the Karlovy Vary Region. Please behave and correct.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u284	Mr Šimek is registered with the facts, then Mr Kuchař. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u285	Thank you very much. I will also, through you, Madam Vice-President, respond to Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová. I don't think it's important if the government runs in full lineup around the regions, but it is important that the region is easily driven by individual ministers and interested in issues in individual ideas. For us, for the Pardubice Region, I must say that in that year we saw Minister Nekula, Minister Hubáčková, Minister Gazdík, Minister Jurečka, Minister Kupka, Prime Minister of Pardubice, we also met the Prime Minister in the Pardubice Region on two activities. So I really dare say that half of the government visited the Pardubice Region during the first year in various activities and we discussed various problems of the Pardubice Region. And it really doesn't bother me personally that there wasn't a whole bus in full lineup, but I am very pleased that the representatives of this government are interested in the territory of the Pardubice Region, and I believe that other parts of this republic are also interested. And let's be glad it works. And there's no point in discussing whether he's in full lineup or whatever. As long as he drives and tries to figure out what's going on in the territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u286	Thank you. It is now signed up with Mr Kuchař, then Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u287	I will not respond to what has been said in the second interview by my colleague, through you, Madam President. All I'm gonna say is that there was a lot of poetry moving in the first part. I just want to say that there isn't even a meter in the Karlovy Vary Region, and there aren't even territorial adjustments. So it's been four years of your reign, madam captain.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u288	Thank you. Now, Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u289	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I don't want to settle accounts about the Karlovy Vary Region, I think that's undignified. It doesn't belong here. We're here from all over the country, we all have problems. But if somebody's lying, it's just that this guy has to go back. So in the meantime, Mr. Kuchař, I found it. [[- Through...]] Through Madam President. I became the Governor in 2016, the memorandum with the BMW was signed in mid-2018. I know what I've done, what I've done for it and what efforts I've made. And what you really said here is a huge underhand. Next thing you know, D6. It's three sections, 15 kilometers. Before that, in eight years, they've come 4 kilometers. I'm happy that the 15 kilometers have gone well and that Karlovy Vary doesn't go to Cheb, there doesn't have to be a toll. And Mr. Kupka is now coming up with the fact that from 2024 it will be paid. I wonder what you will do as a coalition MP to make sure that is not the case. You better start working than coming here and lying at the microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u290	Thank you. Mrs Šafránková has now signed up for the debate properly. Mr Vondráček will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u291	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to briefly comment on the work of the Government of Petr Fiala, with particular emphasis on the area of social policy that I devote myself to, and to justify why this government cannot have my trust. It is from the perspective of social policy that the year of the current government is a complete tragedy. The government immediately refused to increase wages for workers from labour offices and social workers, with an enormous increase in the working agenda and the volume of work over the last few years. And we had no idea that it was only the beginning of the choosy pressure on the employees of the labour office in the form of adding duties and further de facto reducing their wages, where the result is the paralysis of these authorities, which are unable to deal with citizens' requests for social assistance in time. [[17.20 hours]] The government's programming statement was a great warning in terms of its content. But even worse was the fact that the Fialův government in some respects very soon began to fulfill them in practice. On the contrary, it has not fulfilled a number of promises in this statement, particularly in relation to disabled pensioners and families with children. At the beginning of last year, under the SPD, we drew attention to the fundamental impact of energy growth on our citizens. The government questioned it and downplayed it and refused to put a stop to the energy prices we had proposed from the start. Instead, you sent citizens to the social welfare offices. I have always considered it a big problem, and I have talked about it for a long time, as well as the enormous administrative difficulty during the processing of applications for housing allowance and other social benefits, and also the fact that according to a professional study published, among other things, on the News List, many persons who should have legal entitlement to this contribution do not even know about its existence. This study estimates that there are up to two thirds of citizens with this entitlement, i.e. about 300,000 people, especially low-income seniors. The government has not changed this situation by a well-known millimeter for the better, although it is the fundamental problem of the social system in relation to the most vulnerable population groups in existence. That is why I later initiated and promoted a resolution by which the Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to impose on the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs a revision of all forms used in the context of requests for benefits of state social support and assistance in material distress and to submit the results of this revision to the Social Policy Committee. In order to also submit to that authority a report on the updating of the form of these forms. We cannot be satisfied with the way Minister Jurečka stood up to this resolution. Another very antisocial measure of the Fialův Government was the spring significant reduction of fare discounts for students and seniors. The budget saving of this step was completely marginal. It represented only about half a percent of the current state budget deficit and only about a tenth of a percent of all budget expenditure, but this led to an unacceptable reduction in the quality of life of students and pensioners who could not defend it. In the first quarter of last year, the Fialův Government came with its own, very late draft state budget for 2022. Again, it was a very anti-social proposal, which contained significant cuts, for example, in the state's contribution to civil servants' health insurance, in the amount of funds intended to contribute to the care of disabled citizens, or in the reduction of funds for replacement maintenance for single parents. It was literally a slap in the face of the socially weakest groups of citizens. The government coalition and its Members then in the House rejected our bill to end the abuse of social benefits inadaptable. It was a proposal on which I worked together with experts on this issue and other colleagues for almost three years. A proposal that would not in the slightest endanger any decent and honest person who needs help from the state. At the same time, our bill would not harm those citizens who cannot work for objective reasons, namely our seniors or disabled people. This proposal was purely targeted at those who consciously abuse social benefits, do not work, even if they can work, and do not seek work, cheat our authorities and all decent and hardworking citizens who finance them in the long term and involuntaryly. It would also allow the end of the immoral practice of trade in poverty and would counter the spread of existing and new excluded sites. From our point of view, it is not possible to tolerate endlessly a situation where many people receive social benefits wrongly and when citizens have been sponsored involuntarily from honest-working taxpayers' money for years avoiding work and circumventing laws. Working people must not be discriminated against at all times. Government Members do not seem to think this, assessed on the basis of their vote and the rejection of our proposal. The summer months of last year were the time when the government presented a bill on a single child allowance of CZK 5 000, which we, too, supported by the SPD and tabled a number of amendments to it. However, the proposal was inadequate, unsystemic and delayed. The application procedure was often administratively demanding for citizens and even more overwhelmed by the already extremely overloaded labour offices, due to the senseless distribution of families into two groups, one of which did not have to ask for the contribution and the other one did. An important chapter of social policy is the issue of the pension system, which urgently requires changes to help our old-age, disabled, survivors, especially those of low-income people. Government activities in this area were literally equal to zero, or even directed against the interests of pensioners, as well as the considerations of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jurečka and other government officials about increasing the retirement age, tightening the conditions for valorisation of pensions and so on. For us, the unbreakability of the 65-year-old age limit is an absolutely fundamental principle, which should also be enshrined in the Constitution to protect our future seniors from cynical and social governments of the present type. As far as pension reform is concerned, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka nominated only representatives of the parties of the government coalition and none of the opposition to his Commission for the Reform of the Pension System as the first minister in the political history, which in itself is quite scandalous and condemns this project to failure, because the real pension reform, which is meant to function for a long time, implies consensus across the political spectrum. Unfortunately, the final quarter of 2022 was characterised by a sharp deterioration in the social and income situation of the broad classes of Czech citizens. The cause and main reason for this situation was our government's absolutely failed energy crisis, culminating in astronomical growth in electricity and gas prices and delayed and completely inadequate government response to it. The government tried to correct the consequences of this critical state by amending the Act on State Social Support, on which I tabled a number of amendments under the SPD, because the government's draft was again absolutely inadequate and poor quality. My proposals concerned adjustments to the setting of the housing allowance - it was an increase in the upper limit of the monthly eligible housing costs in all types of apartments in terms of ownership or rental. And then to return to the previous practice, when housing standards were set separately for single and separately two-member households. The merger of these two categories together by the government with the same level of normalities is detrimental to low-income two-member households. I considered an even greater increase in these standards necessary, in particular, because of the enormous increase in energy prices, which did not sufficiently reflect by the government's standardizations. All of these proposals were swept off the table by the government coalition and sent hundreds of thousands of households into energy poverty and into a very critical situation in terms of their ability to cover housing costs in the long run. We will reap the bitter fruits of this government approach for a very long time. The Government and the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs have also completely resigned to any legislative activity of their own in the direction of the necessary assistance to socially endangered groups of citizens. An example is the situation of disabled citizens and families with the smallest children. Since the government with its extensive service system was unable to prepare and present its own proposals for the whole year, I tried to discuss and enforce many bills for the SPD to help these groups of citizens. [[17.30 hours]] This is an increase in the allowance for care mainly to persons in the first and second stages of addiction. These persons were last increased by the relevant contribution seven years ago in 2016 and their life situation is more than desperate, especially after the government has again increased social services for persons in the first and second stages of addiction since this January. This is already really liquidation, and it will reduce the quality of their lives even more significantly, and it will have a clear impact on the negative effects and their health. Another draft of the law that I fought for was an effort to increase the parental contribution from the current CZK 300,000 to 360 000. In view of the significant growth in inflation and prices of basic living needs and the cost of families for housing, energy, food, fuel, children's needs, but also mortgage payments, and I also consider the increase in this contribution to be the most acute and necessary. In a situation where families with young children, and especially where single parents, especially mothers, fall under large numbers of income poverty, lose savings and risk falling into debt spirals or executions, I consider increasing parental contribution to be essential. It was too late yesterday. And what did the government do for it? One big nothing. It is probably no longer necessary to say that the five-police Members have again not supported this proposal by the SPD. What is more, by their conscious attitude, they made it impossible to discuss and discuss the proposal to increase their care allowance when they did not sign up for their voting facilities, although they were present in the House Hall, so that our proposals could not be put to the vote because of the insubordination of the House of Meritoriality and were delayed by at least half a year. Five-caliber colleagues, do you sleep well? Ladies and gentlemen, my list could certainly be even more extensive. I could talk about the agenda of social services, foster parents, care for vulnerable children, collapsing employment offices and so on. In all these areas, Prime Minister Fiala's government is totally failing. She's idle. Her working speed isn't even close to the speed of the snail's movement in the high grass. And it does not help decent and working citizens and companies who urgently need help. He doesn't deserve our trust and he won't either. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u292	Thank you. And another for the general debate is Mr Vondráček. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u293	[[It brings materials to the speaker's counter.]] Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. I wanted to demonstrate that I have enough materials, but I decided to hear some of President Excellent's call and try to rationalize my speech in some way, he said, and shorten it, because if you look, there is 34 left. If there was no factual comment at all, and everyone would talk for 10 minutes on average, it's still 340 minutes - and we have a half-six. I don't think that's what anybody wanted. I'm just beginning with a brief meeting. I take it sportingly, you simply organized yourself, you invented a parliamentary technique, how not to let the opposition speak. We are also doing this, it belongs to Parliament, which according to our Rules of Procedure is a battlefield and not a stage. I even admit that I am actually bored in parliaments where they have other rules of procedure, and that I have already gone through a lot of them. So I think that political conflict here is worth something to me. So I don't blame you for controlling the 51st meeting that we called. I just want you to think about the motive that actually the only motive is for a meeting that the opposition called because it wasn't heard and wasn't allowed to perform, so at this meeting, you actually did it to push the opposition out of daylight. By seven o'clock yesterday, you surrounded yourself with a speech of ministers that could not be responded to, and today it was more or less repeated with the speeches. Those were partially obstructive manifestations. You could say what the ministers said in a few minutes. I say again, I respect that, just please think about the fact that when the opposition says that it is not heard and cannot speak, you react by not letting it speak. If it's really the way in the right direction. And I've already been here telling my story with Jan Farský in the last term when we agreed on a zipper. The first one was Petr Fiala, the second one was Andrej Babiš, and then he was supposed to zipper, except I started the zipper with the first one to sign up, and that was Alena Schillerová. And he came to me in a very angry Jan Farskýý and he says what I took for granted that in the beginning two speak for the YES movement. In addition, there was a completely different balance between the number of priority rights. You have many more today. And three years go by, and I feel like I'm talking to amnesia patients, and you just don't remember. So please, the people you've been here, try to remember what it was like, and let's try to treat each other like that, because really democracy is about the opposition and the coalition changing. Oh, the unfortunate rotation of governments. But if you've had a problem for eight years, and it's really bothered you so much, then why do you do it to us now? And why isn't there at least some theoretical possibility of always agreeing on a procedure? This meeting really isn't about us campaigning. This meeting isn't even about trusting the government, because we know how it's gonna turn out, the vote, but it's the only way we have to perform and not be limited by not approving the program or approving the point. It is an overuse of the Rules of Procedure, and I do not like it, and I hope it will not become a custom, as it slowly becomes a custom, that you use extraordinary meetings to discuss some government priorities. It's not a good road either. And the basis of everything is that there is no communication between the opposition and the coalition. It's not about the government's pure mistrust today. I am convinced that this government does not have confidence that only 43 percent of the population voted for it at the time of their election and everyone else voted against it. And a certain mathematical coincidence here is a comfortable majority of 108, by the way, with a much better election result. Prime Minister Topolánek had only 100 mandates. That means, it's really another thing that should lead the government coalition to humility, and it turned out exactly the other way around. At present, the government is doing everything in its power to further reduce confidence, and in a devastating way it is actually refusing to admit in public space, however much to admit that something may have gone wrong. After all, what would happen if you said that some measures, some measures, did not go to 100 percent? But we've had a two-day show here about how great everything is and that you haven't made a mistake. I think it's catching up to you slowly, and it's catching up to you in that public space. My subject, which I have signed a request for, or the motion to convene an extraordinary meeting, is precisely freedom of speech in the Czech Republic, where, despite my repeated proposals, repeated interventions, repeated attempts at an extraordinary meeting, we have not been heard. And I've already discussed it in detail here. I can refer to some conversation by Mr Hanousek, who has already been mentioned here, that a KRIT team has been formed, that teams are to be formed in all ministries and that all this is to be coordinated by some government agent and that there is to be some restriction on freedom of speech in good intentions. Minister Rakušan was here at least last week, at least he told me how many people are in KRIT and what they are doing there, but he also referred to the Prime Minister as he knows everything because it is a concept of government, not a concept from the Ministry of the Interior. I would like to remind you that it really lives in that public space, and I have here - I will try to speed things up - I have here a comment by Professor Kudrna, a constitutional lawyer who states here that citizens have also noticed that there have already been three waves of government efforts in some way to limit freedom of speech and access to information. And they have one thing: the belief that freedom of speech must be reduced for political reasons, because many of the opinions expressed are problematic, and we are witnessing the concreteization of the ways in which this is to be done. [[17.40 hours]] In December, official information was published that measures should have four pillars - criminalisation of people knowingly spreading misinformation in order to significantly damage the democratic character of the state, shut down and block disinformation websites, the use and financing of non-profit organizations to identify disinformation and finance independent media. To the four points - first, damage to the democratic nature of the state. You know, it is no coincidence that the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms provides that, although it can, if necessary in a democratic society to protect the rights and freedoms of others, the security of the state, public security, the protection of public health and morality, in some way reduce the rights in part. And you know what's interesting? That the Charter does not say anything about protecting freedom and democracy intentionally, because protecting these values by restricting them is nonsense. That's ridiculous. You're trying to limit freedom of speech here to protect all of us's freedom. The other thing is, another absurdity is that there is talk here in the next article, that the state has a plan to fight disinformers and that at least 150 million are needed and that 50 million are to be given to non-governmental non-profit organizations. So please think about whether this organization, when it gets $50 million from the government, is really still non-governmental, if it isn't a bit Orwellian, as Professor Kudrna writes, and if it's really non-profit when all these people are professionals and everyone there is getting some reward for it. I mean, it's a goddamn contraption calling to heaven. As far as criminalization is concerned, I think we currently have enough legislation to prosecute slander, false accusations, and all these institutes are somehow covered by us. We've already had this debate at 2:00 in the afternoon, so please, I'm not going back to that. But I'd like to tell you one more thing about the pre-prepared narratives. The professor here has a beautiful quote that Napoleon said that history is a fable that people have agreed to. And I claim that the pre-prepared narratives from the Ministry of the Interior and the Office of the Government are the fables that this government wants to impose on us and which the ordinary citizen of the Czech Republic is to believe, and it is to cost us millions and millions of crowns. Independent media should be paid. Who's gonna pick them? Which ones are they? I didn't get an answer to that question either. And most importantly, I'm going back to what I said a second ago. Can you imagine there's going to be another election, there's going to be a completely different government, and it's going to be doing it, and it's going to add another zero? What's it gonna look like and where's it gonna end up? First of all, we should really think about what disinformation is and what information is, and somehow define it. I can see from the Minister of the Interior's statement that he understands this completely wrong. He even answered some of my interpelations, where I simply asked for some explanation, and he replied that by performing, when I blamed all the blame for today's crisis on our government, I confirm the thesis: we are not trying to get the truth, but to gain political points. So when we try to criticize this government in some way, we are actually at odds with the narrative that there is a political conflict in the Czech Republic and that the energy crisis is to be interpreted as a result of the Russian energy war, which aims to decompose Czech society. So many quotes from the material. I quoted here mostly last time but other material, which concerned illegal migration, that "media does not pay attention to the topic, which gives space to actively shape and shape it. It cannot be expected that they would push him mass, but it cannot be ruled out that he will be abused by newspapers and television owned or close by the ANO movement and also by the disinformation scene." By the way, you answered the question which independent media would get the $100 million and which wouldn't. I think the question of freedom of speech in the Czech Republic is crucial, which is why we are here at this meeting, and I beg you, the government coalition, please, government, turn it off. Shut it down, cancel it, cancel the KRIP, cancel all of these measures, find another job for a government agent to fight misinformation, because it can't be done well. Just the truth is true, a lie is a lie. Thank you, Vice-President Richterová, for saying so, that a lie is not an opinion and an opinion is not a lie, and these people have to take it from themselves. All you do in this area is go to hell and it can't end well. That's why my main appeal is: turn it off. And it is one of the reasons that devastates this government's trust in Czech society. So, that's the part about freedom of speech. And now I'm going to make the next one go a lot faster. What I resent next is this government's wasted Presidency and its failure to clearly define itself in a number of issues. You all probably already know the famous video that goes around the Internet, where our Prime Minister sits there while MEP Verhofstadt beats him there and tells him how it is necessary to cancel the unanimous vote within the European Union so that Europe can be more effective in order to work faster and better. While, before the elections and in the past, Mr Petr Fiala made a significant distinction against these European, pardonfully, inventions, he just sat there and didn't say a half word, just said it was complicated. He had the perfect historical opportunity in Europe to say that we do not want this as the Czech Republic, that it is a disaster for us as a small state, that it does not mean anything good for us, that it means that it will also be decided about us without us. He didn't say it, he didn't say it once. When he organized the summit at Prague Castle, I don't know if you registered that there was a demonstration in Hradčany Square and that they were demonstrating there precisely for the abolition of the unanimity and that Macron went to them and that he was talking to them. He talked to them because he understood them. Those people came from abroad. They came to us on Hradčany Square to protest and support the abolition of unanimous decision-making within the European Union. This happened at our Prague Castle, paradoxically at the statue of G Masaryk, who had to rotate in Lany in his grave. He would never admit it. And our Prime Minister didn't say anything against it. Nor has he fulfilled his pre-election promises regarding emission allowances. Another famous video that I'm getting today that keeps recycling what Prime Minister Fiala said in the election debates, that we need to negotiate emissions permits, that we need to limit trade with them and the market. What did we do? Actively under our Presidency, there has been a significant deterioration in the situation where the emission allowances will also affect households and cars - with our contribution. Well, no wonder they praise us so much in Europe, because they haven't had anyone so useful in a long time. The last thing I wanted to ask you - what do we have for Minister Bek? He canceled his application for the debate yesterday, if I've noticed, he didn't get off. The whole Presidency has not been seen, the whole Presidency does not really know what anyone has been dealing with. Our MEPs have told me that Mr Bek has told the European Parliament that he is giving them an hour of consultation if anyone is interested, which, of course, has raised the MEPs again, because Mr Bek has misjudged the university. He's supposed to go to the European Parliament, not give someone an hour of consultation. But I would like to ask what we will have after the Presidency, a). And b) I would like to point out in relation to the freedom of speech that, among other things, a directive on political advertising is being drafted within the European Union, when the European Commission is trying to establish some rules that can be political advertising, which cannot be political advertising. They want to regulate the so-called targeting in some way, which means you're addressing a particular group on Facebook. This is being prepared within the European Commission, it is to come to the European Parliament. A lot of nonprofit organizations are fighting this because it's kind of screwing up and tightening the screws of those political debates and some political speeches. Mostly they protest nonprofits. And under our Presidency, there has been some agreement between the Member States with the active participation of our Minister Bek. [[17.50 hours]] So, Minister Hubáčková has taken care of our emission allowances, Mr Bek has taken care of the limitations and regulation of political advertising, which can lead to restrictions on some freedom of speech and freedom at all within the European area, and therefore this government cannot have my confidence because we have failed both in Europe and on domestic issues. I've had other speakers here, I won't comment on energy, I won't comment on these areas, but please, freedom of speech, a major threat, and if you don't stop, it's going to be bad, but including you, it's not just about us. And please, what you did in that Europe, that's just a four-way, four-minus. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u294	Thank you. Another one for the general debate is Mrs Pastuchová. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u295	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Madam, honourable Members, Minister, I have spoken several times with factual remarks on the various speeches. But yesterday from 9:00 a.m. to 11:00 a.m. to evening, and this morning from 9:00 a.m. to this moment, I sat really honestly here when I wasn't having coffee, and I listened carefully to the appearances of the members of the government and the coalition MPs talking about everything. Unfortunately, we couldn't respond to individual performances last night within seven hours, so I would just sum up in such a country, which I have said before, and under such a government that works so well and quality for people, I would like to live and I would like to see them not talking about their fantasies next time, but about the Czech Republic. I already said it here yesterday. I have made some comments here from the discussions that have taken place here, and one that I must return to, and my revered colleague, through you, Dr Mašek, is yesterday's performance by one of the members of the STAN movement, who said and commented that actually Slovák or Čechoslovák, Slovák, a person born in Slovakia, even though he has Czech nationality now, would - or should not - or would not - recommend running for president. Let me sum it up, and I said it yesterday, that I was very offended, and I am very sorry, and I think it must be regretting all the people involved. I was born in Czechoslovakia, I am not twenty or thirty anymore, and my mother was born in Slovakia, and I was very touched. It's really hurt me, and that's why I'm repeating it here. And I think the next time someone says that, let them change their mind. I've been thinking a little bit since my colleague's performance here, through you, Lucka Potůčková from STAN, has recapitulated our government here before yours. And today, when the Prime Minister was here, I was glad he was here and he guessed it was his words, but I'm going back to them again. And I've changed it a little bit here in my speech, and just like her, I'm going to use some of the quotes that the former opposition MPs have made when they expressed their distrust of the government of our government. So I will read it to you again, what the current Prime Minister of the Fiala said: Trust means a willingness to rely on others and trust them with your future. And I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, that each of you answer these questions honestly and decide how to vote accordingly. Do I rely on this government? Do I trust this government? Can I trust this government with my future, my children and the citizens of this country? - And I would like to point out that this question lasts and is the same. He's just heading in a different direction now. I say that if people had any confidence in the current government, they - not all of them, of course, I got the question today that I am not speaking for all citizens. Of course not, but I'm getting a lot of emails, and I'm sure you're also very disappointed and frustrated, because this government, which is casting words like democratic, pro-European, professional, I think has disappointed a lot of people. This government defends only limited groups of citizens, essentially the interests of only its constituents, unfortunately, does not give a damn about the others. Or maybe I'll call it worse - she doesn't see them as if she didn't see them at all. This government has a very limited scope and it could be said that it perceives the situation of the Czech Republic by the optics of large cities, namely its voters. He sees their problems, he's interested in their standard of living, everyone else seems to have fallen through a sieve for this government, and they have ceased to exist, and they don't solve their problems. You don't have enough power? Then put on your sweater - it's already played out, but I have to do it again. Can't you make it with the money? Well, ask for doses. Don't be shy, get in line for the Labor Office. Hopefully you'll get your turn, and hopefully we'll send you the money sometime in due course. This government has driven many people into existential problems with its approach. Causes don't solve, basically narrowed everything down to the fact that it was all the war conflict in Ukraine. And so I ask: Its consequences only affect the Czech Republic? Or how else can I explain that other European countries do not solve similar problems, that so many people do not live at the limit of the existential minimum and fall into poverty? As I mentioned, I'm sure that as I have been recently, there are a number of challenges coming from citizens who have the same subject, and that this government does not have their trust and that this government is not helping them - I repeat again for the writer who wrote to me today, so I don't speak for her, I won't speak for you. I speak for the citizens who write to me. And we're all elected citizens here who voted for us, so I can vote for the citizens who elected me. [[talk]] Again, I would like to quote one quote, and it is from this e-mail: This government is clearly and clearly failing more and more seriously, whether it is a question of energy security, an area of economy in which the competitiveness of Czech companies is completely lost, and so on, and so on. Each of those emails or a few of those e-mails are definitely in your mailbox, or you deleted the e-mails, you haven't read them at all because they make you uncomfortable. I suppose I understand that you are acting according to your best conviction, I really would hate to speculate that you are not, but try to think that your conviction may not be right and would like to adjust it a little. Senator Smoljak said in a television debate that this government is not monolith, that there are five pages in it, each with a different program. I'm sorry, but I don't feel that way. You may be playing this game, but I can't explain your actions. I understand the consensus of TOP 09 and ODS, which have never been kept secret by being parties to a program for the rich, but what happened to some solidarity and compassion with others that I would expect of the people? Where's the move on the goal and the help for the young people I'd expect from the pirát? Where's the fight for people from small towns and outskirts of the republic I'd expect from the starosta? I don't see anything like that here. And unfortunately, so do the people of our country. They only see the chaos you've been blaming us for the past period. [[18.00 hours]] Again, I would paraphrase here the words of one of the current government officials, Vice-President of the Government of Ivan Bartoš, who, in the last parliamentary term, relied heavily on public opinion research. Today, his words would have to sound updated like this - November 2022. I quote: What is essential? Today, according to national measurements, the government does not trust about 70 percent of people. Trust has a record low of about 28 percent. Satisfaction with the current political situation is expressed by only 13 percent of citizens, of which 1 % are very and 12 percent are more likely. Those are the numbers, as I said, from November last year. And now I would quote the Vice Prime Minister precisely: Since this government has obviously lost public confidence, the Chamber of Deputies representing this public must respond to this. React clearly and intelligible. That's how we do it. In the past period, Minister Bartoš did it. Now we're doing it, and he actually gave us a guide. In the past period, the pirát explained their position on the government of Andrej Babiš. I therefore expect, even though there is only one Minister for the Pirates, and he is not yet a Member, so he cannot vote that they will take the same position now and give the government of Petr Fiala, which is part of it, a distrust. And to be fair, I would also like to mention the words of Deputy Prime Minister Rakušan, I also hope that he will be consistent in his opinion and will follow them now, when 3. 6. 2021 said behind this counter: The Prime Minister here tried to interpret today's meeting as some kind of pure political conflict between the evil opposition and the good and responsible government. But it's not like that. That day is a message, a message from people who do not trust this government, a message from people who have their representatives in the Chamber of Deputies, and after these representatives, they want to convey their opinion and attitude to the chaos government here in the Chamber of Deputies. The government's pulled away from reality. End of quote from the current Deputy Prime Minister, Mr Rakušan. There are a lot of examples of government closing their eyes to reality and running away from it. Many of my colleagues from the coalition who praised this government have spoken about it, but since the opposition MEPs were given time to discuss it at 5 p.m., I know that colleagues will speak from this department, and they will certainly comment on it. I have already talked about this and many of my colleagues have spoken about it here, so I will not repeat myself, about the situation with medicines that are not. I told you here last week that I went through this alone, when I was getting antibiotics, I had a car, I drove around three drugstores, and finally the fourth pharmacy in another town. I have a car. Okay, I did. We also talked about the fact that somebody doesn't have the car and lives in a small town. The Minister of Health has explained what it is. One reason is that it's actually the citizens' fault because they bought out our drugstores and made supplies. We learn that no one is afraid that in February or March a supply of drugs will come and everything will be fine. When we read the pharmacist's comments, they say that 30 years, some of the older ones who run the pharmacy, have never experienced such a drop in drugs before. If we count the medications that the Minister emphasizes are coming, I'd hate to be wrong, but the supply of antibiotics in some number, and we calculate it on the number of pharmacies in our country, so the pharmacists themselves say they're out of the pharmacy in one afternoon. Instead of discussing this, the Minister is reading that he is thinking about introducing an overstandard in health care. In the long run, even in our government, we are talking about the lack of doctors, the age of generations of practices, pediatricians, the age of dentists, and now, at this time, we are actually learning that we are also short of psychiatrists, especially child psychiatrists, and that the increase in the disease is due to the age of covideo, but it continues, there are few. The county's jamming our ER, people don't have anywhere else to go to the doctor. Or they do, but if they don't have a car, they can say from their position as paramedics, so let's call the 155. So we're going to the flu. I'm not making it easy, because, of course, these people are worried about themselves. If someone doesn't have a car and they have temperatures, they call the ambulance, too. We are actually, as you all say, that this meeting is something other than why we called it, so I personally included these points in the agenda of the meeting to discuss them. All it took was one performance by the Prime Minister or anyone in the government to tell us all the opposition here: look, now we've introduced that variable week, and in that variable week, I can promise you that one day will be the opposition window of your proposals. I think that who was sitting here in the last parliamentary term can confirm to me that our government has been helpful to this and that in a variable week I am looking at proposals - I am looking at my colleague, Dr. Kaňkovský, and I think that it can confirm that we have included the points of opposition and MPs that have been dealt with in a variable week. But we got the opposition window every Thursday at 6:00 p.m., and actually most of you aren't sitting here on Thursday for an interview, so it doesn't even sit here at 6:00 p.m. It's a message: say what you want here. But I remember really, I'm here for the third term, and the opposition window in that variable week was. So all we had to do was say, look, yes, variable we didn't want him, now we want him, so that one day of the week we would have agreed with you that one day we would have your laws. That's enough. Today's extraordinary meeting didn't have to be at all if we could get this assurance from you. [[18.10 hours]] And as my colleague Brázdil said, by your means, so I too signed up for our parliamentary club last Tuesday, when you wiped us out, or last Tuesday, you wiped out all our proposals regarding the citizens of this republic. But you guys were just running the Czech Television Act. If it was an important law that would be needed for our people or that would change their situation somehow, we probably wouldn't have decided that. But you guys were just pushing that you have to discuss by midnight, by any time the Czech Television Act, and the train didn't go through it. And one single point that would involve something that would help those people, you didn't put us in the line. And it was really little. Really little with the promise that maybe next week, let's make a deal, we'll put it in place for you. That didn't happen. So that's why I'm here with the fact that we've called, and I'm glad that each of our Members here can speak, has an unlimited period of time. It doesn't have to be in emergency meetings, in an emergency meeting that we're going to convene, that only speaks preferential rights. Then you vote you won't approve of the program, and we go home pretty nicely again, with none of the Members for their region, for their citizens who voted for them, who go to their parliamentary offices and tell them their problems, they can't come out here and say anything. So the reasons I said here are why people don't trust the government. Again, I stress that not all citizens. Of course, we have supporters of this government, that's just the way it is. And they're not just economic reasons. The reason is the government's lack of interest in people's lives. Absolutely zero empathy, and worst of all, it's the government's unwillingness to listen. Because the nice government that you're not talking to us might be okay with us. But in this way, you completely ignore everyone that we, as opposition MPs, represent here. Thank you, Madam Vice-President, and that concludes my speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u296	Thank you. Your performance brought up two factual points. First of all, Mr Kaňkovský, Mr. Ambassador, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u297	Good evening, Madam Vice-President, dear colleagues. I will briefly respond to my honored colleague Jana Pastuchová, through the Vice-President. I very much appreciate the fact that Mrs. Pastuchová here spoke in a matter of fact, calmly. They were opinional perhaps clashes with us Members and with the government. But there's one thing I'm gonna touch after all. I'm not going to argue about how much space the opposition was getting here in the last parliamentary term. Yes, from time to time, and I point out, from time to time, we got that space, and then you denied us one law after another. But it also happened from time to time that some opposition proposal has been passed, and we have also worked together on some things, and I very much appreciate that. But there's one thing I have to touch, and that's the state of health. You mentioned some of the problems we're really dealing with right now. Lack of dentists, children's practices and even problems of actually personnel shortages in the regions. And this is where I have to go. It is not entirely fair here to say that the Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek and this government, in less than 13 months of their government, could lay down childish practices in the regions and are responsible for the fact that we do not have dentists in the regions. I don't think that's fair. So I was behind the microphone already in autumn 2018 and I intersected Minister Vojtěch about the critical situation of internal departments across the Czech Republic. I repeated this interpellation in the last parliamentary term. bohužel, Minister Vojtěch did not respond in any practical way to this interpellation. In January 2020, I interviewed Minister Vojtěch about the lack of dentists. He answered very factually, calmly, but basically the only trump that he said here is that the Ministry of Health supported something about 20 dental ambulances in the Czech Republic, which means, when we count it, roughly supported one dental ambulance per region, unfortunately. [[The President: Time, Mr. Ambassador]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u298	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Horák and Mr Mašek will be prepared. Ambassador, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u299	Good evening. I would also like to respond to the previous speaker. Of course, we realize, as mayor, I realize the social consequences that are really deep. These people come to me, so, of course, in many of these things, how it affects these people, there's no other way than to agree. However, it seemed a little uncomfortable to me that even the surrounding countries of Europe are dealing with this better, or that the Czech Republic is dealing with it the hardest. And that's just not true. I am talking to colleagues from foreign countries, with foreign partners, and the social problems caused by war, not by some wrong government policy, but simply by war, are big in many countries. When we look at the January Eurobarometer, the European Union's public opinion poll, 93 percent of Evropan are afraid of rising prices and rising cost of living, 82 percent of Evropan are afraid of poverty and social exclusion. The most in Cyprus, Italy, Portugal, in the Baltics, it's the same. Of course I don't mean that it's okay. These social problems are important, they have to be addressed, but really the cause is war. And let's not say that, as in the Czech Republic, this is the worst deal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u300	Thank you for keeping the time and another is signed up with a factual remark by Mr Mašek. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová will be ready. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u301	Thank you, I dare to respond to my colleague Kaňkovský, through Madam President. Mr. Colleague, yes, we have always discussed this, the lack of personnel, but I want to respond to the fact that you now had a balance sheet meeting at the turn of November and December at the Ministry of Health. And really everything was OK. That's where they didn't name problems. A week later, there was a total shortage of drugs, a drop in the emergency room, and so on. And that Minister Adam Vojtěch. He actually worked to increase the number of students in faculties by 20 percent to activate the program Study Health and the like. Of course you know well, I also know that it takes ten years for this guy to touch a patient, five years for those nurses. But we took those steps, the money went in. And I would just like us not to say that everything is really wonderful to be photographed in front of the Ministry, a colleague of Minister Válek, whom I otherwise respect humanly, and we get along well, and we don't pretend to be citizens, that it's cool. So my point is that you just follow up on the steps we've started with. Nothing more, nothing less. I wouldn't be talking about it if you didn't respond to Mrs. Pastuchová yourself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u302	Thank you. Next is Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, Mr Kaňkovský will be prepared, with factual remarks. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u303	Thank you for the floor. I, too, am sure, on Mr Kaňkovský, through Madam President. You know, the Minister of Health is the one who performed here yesterday, but we couldn't respond to what he said here. He said here that in August I said on Radiožurnal that there wasn't enough Nurofen, that he found it, that it was true. But I only said that on the Radiožurnal that I didn't tell him! Is it even normal for the Minister of Health to say that? He doesn't have enough advisors, doesn't he have enough Deputys? They don't know what medical conditions are in hospitals and pharmacies? Is it normal for the Minister of Health to brag about getting 10,000 packs, 10,000 packs of penicillin? And that the situation will be resolved, or that it is practically resolved? And if we divide it within the network of pharmacies, which is in the Czech Republic, it comes out three pieces of penicillin into one pharmacy! Do you think that's enough? You think the Minister of Health, who isn't here, but he's active on Facebook, so I would recommend that he first of all get those drugs, say at a press conference on Friday that he started dealing with a lack of medicine in mid-December. It's absolutely unbelievable how he deals with these things. Then I will know that this is a Europe-wide problem. And who had this Presidency within the EU? Didn't the Czech Republic have it? Shouldn't the Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek deal with this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u304	Thank you for keeping time. The next one is signed in with a factual remark by Mr Kaňkovský, Mrs Mádlová will be prepared. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u305	Madam Vice-President, I, through you, Madam Vice-President, will briefly address Mr Mašek. I think that my colleague Mašek and I are very often discussing the state of Czech health, and this was the case during the last parliamentary term. I think we've always discussed this practically. And, yes, I agree that the discussions were ongoing, but it must also be said that my colleague Adam Vojtěch simply ignored some of the problems. And for example, the state of the internal departments where internal departments are failing today, for example in Chrudim, and this then affects the regional hospital in Pardubice, and so on, and so on, so we actually pointed that out in 2018, long before the covideo. The heads of internal departments across the Czech Republic pointed out this. They sent him an open letter. And the ex-minister didn't respond to that at all. And as for the lack of medicine, the minister said it very extensively yesterday. The Department of Health responded to a lack of medication, and it responded now, as he did with the information. But it is also necessary to say who is primarily responsible for pharmaceutical policy in the Czech Republic. This is the State Institute for Drug Control, it has its management and it is primarily responsible for this condition. The Department of Health, of course, when there is such a serious problem, it has entered into the problem. The Minister is very active in this, as is Deputy Minister Dvořáček, dealing with manufacturers, distributors, countries essentially across the planet, but the problem is indeed global today. There's no magician here, those manufacturers just have some production capacity they underestimated, and it's gonna take weeks to stabilize the situation. But to blame it only on the Minister of Health, I think it's very short-sighted and unfair.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u306	Thank you. Another application for a factual remark is Mrs Mádlová. Mrs Pastuchová will be ready. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u307	Thank you. Madam President, I would like to respond to Mr Kaňkovský in relation to the lack of doctors, dentists and other health workers. I've said it before, or I've been saying it in, I think, an interview for Mr. Health Minister. But one of the important factors needs to be remembered, and this is a low birth rate, which undoubtedly stretches from 1998 to 2005, then was born over 100,000 children, but after 2018, it started to fall a little bit again. And here is definitely an important pro-population and pro-family policy, which you actually have in mind, your minister, your Minister of Social Affairs. So what's your family policy? When we look at the current situation, prices are up, young families are not supported at all. So it is certainly one of the important things to do to improve all sectors, in fact, in terms of the workforce, and therefore health, that it is definitely to start, or to continue some kind of pro-family policy. Otherwise we will certainly not solve, solve health care or other sectors, because you simply do not clone those doctors, do not clone dentists, do not clone nurses, and it is a consequence, really one of the big factors, except what is discussed in health care on a professional field, so clearly is simply a decline in population. We just don't, we don't have our citizens. The birth rate is very low.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u308	Thank you. It is now Mrs Pastuchová's turn to prepare Mr Mašek, all factual remarks. Madam, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u309	Thank you. I will respond to my colleague Vítek Kaňkovský, through you. Thank you for admitting that sometimes we left the opposition windows. It was a normal day of work, it was since this morning, it wasn't the afternoon, and we approved the program for you. Unfortunately, that hasn't happened here yet. And I said we've been dealing with a lack of doctors in the long run, and I haven't blamed the Minister. I was just saying that if the Minister was communicating with us like we couldn't respond to his performance, he wouldn't be sitting here right now, or if he put one point in the program, or if you told us that we were going to get an opposition day on that variable week, this meeting really didn't have to be. Just for the record, I wasn't attacking. Like us, we can argue that our government dealt with covid and our Minister of Health had more work to do in his position as Minister of Health with covid than your Minister of War in Ukraine. And we just wanted him to give us a message that he was doing it or that he was going to continue the negotiations. I don't expect our practice, pediatricians and dentists to be filled in 13 months, no. But we didn't even get the message that he wanted to do something about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u310	Thank you. It is now Mr Mašek's turn to prepare Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u311	Thank you, Madam President. Very briefly by your assistance to my colleague Kaňkovský. Reminding the issue of some district hospitals, such as Chrudim, in the internal fields in the past period. Okay, I'll respond. Maybe Adam Vojtěch, I don't want to speak for him, didn't respond directly, but the point is that Professor Válek doesn't respond to the regional health issue and justifies it because he doesn't have the competence to do it, that it's a matter of regions, that the regions are supposed to deal with it. So our ministry really did the things it could touch. This means, for example, an increase in wage parameters for nurses and doctors one full six times, or two full seven times, which was about 56,000 for nurses, about 105,000 for doctors, and they simply increased the competitiveness of health care. For example, the interest of Slovák working here, please note the facts in Slovakia that the salaries of both non-medical and medical personnel are rising significantly there. There's a threat this government is not responding to, and health salaries are stagnant. I'll save it for my contribution. I just wanted to respond to the fact that Professor Válek responds to the collapse of the emergency room with that, well, it's the regions, we're gonna deal with Mr. Governor Kuba and we're gonna set up a task force. So it's just the answer, why did Minister Adam Vojtěch seem to have reacted in your eyes in a lack of flexibility?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u312	Thank you. It is now Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová who will be prepared by Mr Brázdil. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u313	Thank you for the floor. I also respond to Vít Kaňkovský, through Madam President. What is the State Institute under the control of pharmaceuticals? Who does he belong to? Under the Minister of Health. So the Minister of Health has the powers, he has the options. I am glad that the Minister of Health is coming, so I can also say that I listened very carefully to Friday's press conference that she was discussing and should have told us that the drugs would already be there. But she didn't tell us about the press conference because the Minister of Health said he started dealing with it in the middle of December. Then he said that he could go the way of the Material Reserves Administration, where he could make that reserve, but that he decided not to go that way, and as one of the reasons he said that Nurofen had to be in the fridge. Well, I fell slowly, because of course I'm using that Nurofen, and I know it doesn't have to be in the fridge. So I was wondering if the Minister of Health didn't already know that, so I'm sure it's up to you. And that it will go the way, that there will be a change of legislation. I don't know when we're gonna get the legislation, when we're gonna get it. But above all, citizens, children, people in hospitals need medicine. They need them every day, they need every hour and minute, and we need to have those drugs. And the Minister of Health knows that there is a shortage of drugs, he's known since the summer, and he started dealing with it in the middle of December. And it's still not solved. I said the reasons here. Ten thousand units of penicillin, three packs per pharmacy coming out. That is absolutely inadequate. And, Minister, through Madam President, if you were here, you would have heard me say that the government does not go to the regions. The government, the whole government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u314	Time, Madame. Thank you. And now, with a point of fact, Mr Brázdil. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u315	Thank you for the floor. I'll be very short. We doctors know that health and medicine - it's very complicated and it's true for a while it's changing guidelines. It's all on the move. Even the drugs that are missing today, it's probably not just someone's fault, it's just a set of unfortunate things, a decision. Colleagues, colleagues, but perhaps we all have to agree that the 14 billion that could have stayed in the health care sector are opening the door to the solution. Maybe not quite, but it's just by taking a government plane, and by doing that, you'd fly and buy it in, like, South America. I'm exaggerating, I'm not entirely oriented at this, but since the money was already there, it could have stayed there as a reserve. No one would touch it. And I also know that money doesn't replace a man. If you don't have anything, then death doesn't even take when there's no human being, and they're not, but the money can help us get them out of somewhere. I'm sorry, I'm not blaming the Minister for anything, like everything was wrong, but the money, it was supposed to, I think, stay there! I'm sorry, I'm sorry about all the paramedics, and I haven't met anybody who would say no, no, no, that's good, because there's enough money in the health department. So let me just say that I reacted like this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u316	Thank you, and with a factual remark, Minister Válek is registered. Minister, two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u317	Thank you very much, Madam President. By your help, Mr Brázdil. This is a repeated subject that we are discussing, and I think there is no point going back to that. Insurance companies have even more reserves than originally thought, and no doubt every crown in health care is good, and only a paramedic insane would say he wants less money. Neither will any firefighter say it, nor a soldier, nor any man in his profession, nor a teacher. That's logical, that's correct. It's a good thing their organizations say that. That's their job. Of course, I watch what anyone here says about health care because I'm in the House all day doing other things, but I watch those speeches very carefully. By your means, Madam President, there is no point in commenting on what Mrs Vildumetzová said. Again, we would launch a series of remarks that would take unnecessary time for opposition Members to speak, and I will not do that. And then maybe in an interview or in person, she's eating everything she hasn't picked up from my media appearances or from what I said in my long speech yesterday, so I'm gonna explain it to her myself. That's what I promise you right now. And just to the regions. Karlovy Vary Region, this year she will definitely go to oncology and there will be a complex oncology center. Thank you very much to the current Governor of the Karlovy Vary Region for bringing the matter to his signature during the year, thank you to Dr. März for cooperating on this, and I am glad that there will also be a comprehensive oncological centre in the Karlovy Vary Region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u318	Thank you for keeping time. I have no further application for a factual point, so we will continue the general debate and next is Mr Kolovratník. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u319	Thank you for the floor. Good sleepy evening, colleagues and colleagues. I, too, would like to enter into a proper debate and speak to my position and to explain why the current government does not have and cannot have my trust as an opposition Member who is primarily involved in transport here in the House. But before I make those arguments public before I say them, first, I'm gonna fast-track my colleague Jana Pastuchová, and that's the message we're gonna send. And I want to remind you of what Mrs Pastuchová said. The e-mails, co-workers, co-workers from the government coalition, they come to us. We know you're walking, too. Only you here on the microphone probably don't talk about them and you don't want to talk about them, but we'll talk about them. I didn't count to one, but they're lower hundreds of e-mails now from Saturday, from Friday last week, when citizens are begging us to say to the government that they don't trust her, and they're begging us to fight for them. And that's our answer to your story, which you're unfortunately repeating here, whether yesterday morning by Prime Minister Fiala, so basically to the opening of each of the ministers' appearances and in a series of performances, it's some kind of campaign that we're helping our boss and so on and so forth. Please, it's not like that. It is one of the reactions, it is our big response to what the citizens of the Czech Republic and our and often your disappointed voters are calling for. And that so-called beautiful donkey bridge is exactly where I come to the first point of my performance, which I have prepared as an argument, and that is your unfortunate and inadequate communication and your public performances. And once again, we're on the verge of why we're here and why we're calling it. I will mention yesterday's 10 o'clock in the morning when the chairman of our Alena Schillerová MP here presented the 13 clear reasons why we cannot trust the government, the 13 clear arguments perfectly formulated: the failed energy crisis, the zero support of companies, the problems of industry, the influence, the potential influence of media with the threat of censorship and disinformation, the coverage of corruption scandals, the state budget - I do not want to say directly in ruins, but very poorly prepared. That's all we said, and let me just remind you, we've been talking about it minus from now on 10 days, last Monday and Tuesday last week, when from the information I had, opposition representatives politely asked you, the coalition representative, to discuss at least some of those points last week, and you know very well that on that Tuesday last week, the number of items you agreed or included in the agenda was zero. And that was our response, which we decided to do last week on Tuesday evening at the MP's club, that there is simply no other way to react. And what was the Prime Minister's reaction yesterday morning, except for the pictures you posted here? I listened to him very carefully. At first, I heard again that this is a campaign campaign, that we're helping our boss in the presidential campaign. Then I heard a few fairly general, vague statements that you made it all, that everything was going well for the government, and then came, my friends, strong arguments! They were in the following order: Ukraine - war, Ukrajina - refugees, war, Ukraine - aid to Ukrajinec, military assistance, Ukrajinec - Russian gas and Russian oil. Over and over again. Nothing new. Then there was an attack that the previous governments had done nothing, an attack that in the energy self-sufficiency we were in bad shape because of the previous governments. I'll be ironic here. The way I see it, it was actually an admirable self-criticism from a representative of the government, the Supreme Representative of the Government, and the ODS, because, Prime Minister, through Madam President, who was in the wild privatization of the 1990s? Who organized the sale of ČEZ, pipelines, pipelines, gas reservoirs and other infrastructure to private companies? Who lit up to sell water infrastructure into the hands of foreign privates? It was the ODS and it was also the then government, or the KDU-ČSL party, the People's Party. Dear friends, they were your parties who were already involved in this in the second half of the 1990s and in the beginning of this millennium. But unfortunately, there were lies in the Prime Minister's performance. We've heard: we've launched the core tender, we've launched it. It's not true. It was the government behind the ANO movement with the Minister of Industry and Transport Karel Havlíček, who launched the zero initial phase of the now running tender for the expansion of nuclear energy in the Czech Republic. We have heard that the core in taxonomy has pushed through your leadership of the Czech Presidency. It's not true. The core of taxonomy and the definition of core as an emission-free resource, except for the previous government, and it was Andrej Babiš, and it was Karel Havlíček who worked on this in negotiations on European Union soil. In short, this was an indecent, indecent possession of the merits of your predecessors. Then the Prime Minister spoke yesterday about measures and aid. Yes, those measures, Prime Minister, which we proposed to you as opposition a year ago, even in some cases before the start of the war conflict, and you laughed at us for being populists and that it was impossible and that it was not possible for you to finally - one, two, three, four of those packages that we patiently repeated and offered here - accept them. But unfortunately because of the time delay very, very often ineffectively and inefficiently. [[18.40 hours]] This is the reality of helping this government to ordinary people. And that is why ordinary people are writing to us and begging us to talk about these things publicly here at the Chamber of Deputies plenary, and so that we can sit back and try to express our distrust of your government. Before I go to the main pillar of my speech, this is a debate about the Department of Transport, I will talk about two reasons why I cannot have confidence and why I am critical of your, say, work progress and how you stand up for government responsibility, so I will stop at the next speech of the ministerial. And it was a performance by the Minister of Transport, Martin Kupka, last night, plus minus 24 hours ago. So it was back through the copy machine that I think someone used and made at the Office of the Government or at the ODS Secretariat. Martin Kupka once again spoke that this is about something else, that it is to support his boss' campaign that the opposition is calling a meeting to support Andrej Babiš. No, no, not a thousand times, Minister Martin Kupka. And once again, Alena Schillerová defined the topics just after the New Year that we want to talk about, which we would like to open, politely asked for last Monday and last Tuesday at the Gremium. Then on Tuesday, 10 January afternoon, we politely asked for them here for proposals to modify the program. Voting on the agenda - zero, nothing, not one. And we had to respond, and our club decided to submit a request for signatures to call this meeting. So it was Martin Kupka's first lie that was heard on this microphone. And she wasn't the only one. Martin Kupka's second lie: the Czech Presidency brought a revision of the trans-European networks, the so-called TEN-T networks. - Well, Minister, it was not brought by the Czech Presidency. The revision of these networks, the new definition of trans-European transport corridors, so that we can better reach out to European money in building, for example, important high-speed lines and linking our country to Western Europe and, for example, new to Poland and the Baltic countries, which is the right thing to do. Well, it all worked out two, two and a half years ago, both the Ministry of Transport officials and our representatives in the European Union, as well as the Railway Administration staff, as well as politically us and our colleagues, Karel Havlíček, his team, I personally as the then vice-chairman of the Management Board, we discussed this with our MEPs, and we prepared, negotiated and lobbied this in order to receive support on European soil for the proposed change in the route of trans-European networks. And it's in a good way lobbying like everyone else, we had to convince representatives of other countries, Polák, Maďar, Němec to nod to us. What the Czech Presidency agreed at the European Council last autumn in December was a formal step that was prepared one year in advance. This means that it is not true that it has brought about the Czech Presidency, that is ad one. And ad two please or dare add, it is a proposal that will still go to the European Parliament, and in the European Parliament as well as in the Czech Parliament it can still be subjected to a large number of changes and other so-called amendments, so that the matter is not yet worked out. The second lie we heard about yesterday's defense. And the third lie: renewables, renewables. So Martin Kupka said in his defense: we made it, and the previous government promised it, but did not provide the carriers with money for those renewable resources. What's the reality, my friends? The relevant amendment to the Energy Act was from my workshop. I was his author, and the government accepted him, the House, the previous House in that constellation, in autumn 2021. Even then at the adoption, it was probably in October, in the second half of October, we knew that this thing would have to - it was before the elections, so I'm specifying, it might have been in September, I don't remember exactly the date - that this thing would then have to be approved, if it wasn't illegal support for a certain segment of transport, the European Commission, the so-called notification. And what happened during the new reigns of our five-wheeler? You, my friends, have begun to do so, and this is verifiable, traceable in public resources, in March 2022, four months after you were in office. Officially, the Government's resolution gave the Ministry of Transport a gebir, a mandate to continue to act in this and try to get the authorization, the notification. You received it in the autumn, it was sometime in November, December, and again we heard public statements by Martin Kupka's mouth, for example on the House of Transport Enterprises in Strašnice, where it was promised that everything would be paid back by the end of 2022. Again, what is the reality? It's the second half of January, nothing's paid. Applicants, those authorised applicants, both carriers and transport undertakings, are just sending, sending to the energy market operator, electricity, applications, and waiting for them to be reimbursed. It will happen, it is good, but please, let us be fair, we do not lie, and please, friends, Minister Kupka, do not take credit that you either have not done, or which the previous government has done before you. This further asses me about the main point in my speech, why this government cannot have my confidence and why I believe in my speech, which will come, that in the foreseeable future, I, as a Member of Parliament, cannot express my confidence in this government. It's a budget for transport, it's budget financing. And I can again beautifully follow up on the performance of Prime Minister Fiala and on the performance of Minister of Transport Martin Kupka and on all possible press releases and social networks. 150 billion, record increase, enough investment in railroads, roads and other traffic modes. But it's not true. That amount is just virtual, and to this day, until the second half of January, you're down to almost 31 billion, that is, a fifth of the budget, which is just virtual. And let me remind you that, together with Karel Havlíček and Alena Schillerová, at the first reading of the budget, at the second reading of the budget, at the third reading of the state budget: where, Mr Kupka and Stanjuro, will you take the 30.7 billion you say you will borrow from the European Investment Bank? I'll add a footnote, it might be a good idea, but it doesn't have to, it could be a good servant or a bad master. We have always and always been assured that soon we will know the parameters of the loan that the state will borrow logically, whether it is transport or finance, only if it is advantageous, that it will not borrow at higher interest than it could. But I repeat, investors have been instructed: spend money - probably not a good word - plan repairs, plan investments, conclude contracts. To be specific, not to be general, it's an amount of 65,5 billion for the ŘSD, for the 70.4 billion Railway Administration, but still, my friends, we just don't have a total allocation of 30.7 - you don't have, they don't. Whether it is not just the opinion of the opposition Member, I will quote Mojmír Hampl, President of the National Budget Board - I quote literally: "If the real expenditure on transport infrastructure were, as we think, well part of the state budget, the deficit would be 30 billion higher," says the President of the National Budget Board Mojmír Hampl. In other words, I repeat myself unnecessarily, it is an accounting marketing trick, so that the public information about the total amount of state debt is below a certain level, but in short, 30.7 billion is not, and there is still no justification in the second half of January. We are very curious about what you will come up with and how this will be justified, how the money will be provided for the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. Despite the fact that in the information we received from you, Minister Kupka also worked with the possibility of issuing his own bonds, he talked about some five, maybe seven billion, which SFDI will secure on its own, let's say, after its axis. And here I point out, once again, we have the second half of January and the necessary amendment to the SFDI Act, which would define - and we would support it for us - which would say that SFDI can borrow and have the state as a guarantee, have the power of the state behind it, so the amendment has not yet been discussed by the government and is not prepared here in the Chamber of Deputies. So this is the reality of how this government works, how it budgets and how there is a huge difference between marketing, between what you say and what really happens. I also answer to the citizens who write us those e-mails. You see that we know about this, and I can assure you that we will vote for distrust and that we will continue to draw attention to these problems and shortcomings. [[18.50 hours]] And the very last thing at the end of my performance is the pace, is the speed of the Ministry of Transport. I often and gladly work with the term "let's be high-speed," "let's work high-speed." And if I recap, when the ministers here recap and defend themselves yesterday, everyone was saying how great and handy he was, so will I, my friends, recap. In March 2017, the previous Chamber of Deputies, I apologise, not the previous, but the previous, three quarters of a year before the elections, adopted a rather fundamental resolution here, calling on the government to launch a project for the construction of fast-track connections. A year later, it happened. Railway management is very far away today, has concluded contracts for the adoption of technical standards with French SNCF. Last year, she followed up on what we were preparing. He's got a new organizational unit on his team, Building Administration VRT, that team has over 50 people, and everything's running, everything's coming up. But for over a year, a year and a half of traffic experts say, we see problems ahead of us, we need to adjust the laws, whether it's a line law that many of you know very well, or whether it's a special law, in Lex VRT quotes, the High Speed Line Act. Colleagues say we need clear, transparent compensation for municipalities, as is needed at the core, in the storage of nuclear waste. We need to significantly simplify the EIA, the EIA processes, already because high-speed rail is ecological on its own principle. We need to update the possibilities of modernising or updating the principles of territorial development, placing those lines in the territory. And we need funding. We know that if this government wants to keep the promises it has made, and if it wants to keep the pace set by the previous government, the government of the ANO movement, that from 2026 onwards it will be needed in the budget up to 20 billion each year for construction, on the rapid pace of construction of high-speed lines. Again, what is the reality? The Ministry of Transport, my friends, has one single law in its legislative work plan for this year. One law for a year. There you go, pretty please, little amendment to Law No. 13/1997, i.e. the road that defines the highway, the first-class road that describes the infrastructure. And if I have looked closely, it is a minor small implementation of European law on toll collection, fees and interoperability of toll systems within Europe. Nothing else, nothing else. No amendment to the Line Act, no preparation of a special law for high-speed lines. And I am not even talking about the building bill that you have dismantled, which you have taken apart, and instead of finishing the preparations today for starting from 1 July, we are at a point zero, or we are at a failed first reading, and we are at such a moment that the Gesture Ministry of Regional Development and Minister Bartoš had to acknowledge that what they have prepared is wrong, wrong, and they are ready to discuss and together with us - thanks for this - prepare a comprehensive amendment. And that time is extremely few. So slow traffic laws and virtually zero, very low pace of the Ministry of Transport resort, no move on goal. That's the reality of January 2023. And that's why I can't speak for confidence, but on the contrary, I will say for distrust of this government. This is all for me as shadow minister of transport and Members of Parliament of the Czech Republic, my friends. Unfortunately, I see how badly you communicate in the general sense, how you are fogging, lying about your accomplishments, how you take advantage of the achievements of the previous government, how you show nice press releases in the Department of Transport, but unfortunately, on fundamental development issues you are on the spot and you do not have a move on the goal. This government doesn't have my trust, and it never will. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u320	Thank you. I have two factual points here - the first Mr Strýček. Ambassador, please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u321	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I will now use this two-minute opportunity to give my opinion here. The fact that this meeting here, why this meeting was approved, and that this is not really a campaign, has already been discussed by my colleagues. I'll just give my opinion. So if this extraordinary meeting is considered a campaign for election, then what can Prime Minister Fiala's speech be considered before last year's municipal elections? That was also just before the election, and we didn't say it was a campaign. Now let's get to the point. The Cabinet of Petr Fiala, which has been here for more than a year, is composed of political parties, which have won a total of 43.4% of the votes of all voters who have come to the ballot box in the House elections. But now the situation is diametrically different. According to the latest CVVM investigation, only 28.5 percent of people trust the government, on the contrary 68.1 percent do not trust the government at all. Last year, we also learned that even Prime Minister Fiala has the lowest popularity of all premieres in Europe, he is not trusted by almost 78% of people. Eight out of ten residents, according to a survey by the Czech Republic, think the country is going in the wrong direction. Pessimism on the market is also growing in a very substantial way. Trust in our economy is on one of the lowest values in the entire history of its measurement and confidence among consumers after November's moderate recovery in December according to the Czech Statistical Office has also fallen again. We are here discussing a motion to distrust the government. In my opinion, however, trust in this government - thank you. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] I'll take one more tech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u322	Please note that the factual point must be directed at the speech of a specific speaker before you. Another with a factual remark, Mr President Výborný. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u323	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you for reminding your colleague. This is exemplary abuse de facto. Too bad. But I wanted to respond by your means to my colleague Kolovratník and ask him for one thing. I find it perfectly legitimate that you will not give the government confidence that you have critical remarks. But if there's anything I'd like to hear, it's true. The fact that you have not added that you like to take pictures of yourself at the opening of the D35 motorway section, for example, because Minister Kupka is so serious that even though you are an opposition member, he will take you to the matter. And you're here to tell your stories about different organizations and stuff. And no one is denying your credit when you were in government. Yes, it is. But if you accuse Minister Kupka here of saying something falsely, then please come here and apologize for the lie you said here, because last week we proposed and also approved a purely opposition proposal from my colleague Patrik Nacher at second reading, an amendment to the Code of Civil Procedure. So when you said pure zero here at the beginning, you didn't admit anything to the opposition, it's just not true. So if you're saying something here, please check these things out. And if there's been a mistake - a colleague named Nacher came here, an honored colleague named Nacher nods his head that it was - please come apologize.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u324	Thank you for keeping time. With a point of fact, Mr Kolovratník is registered. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u325	I'm lifting the glove, and I want it to sound like a microphone. Yes, I'm sorry, if I said, and I said pure zero, so I saw it last Tuesday. And if I was wrong here and he was at least one of those points, which I remember well, I acknowledge that, I take it back and correct my claim. That's ad one. And two. I think towards Marek Výborný, the slight nudge to the D35 motorway and various associations and the like is completely unnecessary. You know very well that me and Minister Kupka, even though we have different roles, we have relatively fair, decent relationships. Even in this spirit, my speech was made on the motorway where we agreed, and I think we all agree today, tomorrow and the day after that, that such large infrastructure projects are not a matter of one parliamentary term, but much more. And I would just like to remind my colleague, the Výborný, that I am also there - sorry - through the President, that I was also there to talk about the Liner Act, on which there was agreement across the political spectrum. [[President: Through me.]] So I think the performances were correct. But what I said here, if the Minister were here, or the next time we meet, I'd be happy to say to him face to face. I simply made very good remarks and responded only to what was said. And if I hear something "we've done or we've done," but it's a thing that the previous government has done, then it just has to be responded to, and it needs to be explained. Anyway, no matter how much I quit and stall, I said zero, it wasn't zero, I accept this challenge and I apologize and I fix it. Thank you for the mutually correct debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u326	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for keeping time. And another one, with a factual remark, is signed by Mr králíček. Ambassador, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u327	I also have to respond to the President of the Excellent. Mr President, through Madam President, but you are saying, or you are sorry, that you have not approved for us the essential points concerning energy, medicines and others, so you are sorry that you approved the proposed point by Patrik Nacher and others at second reading. That was quite cheap of you. And I'm glad Martin Kolovratník apologized for showing that we really know how to apologize.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u328	Thank you. I have no more registered factual comment. Before we proceed to the next speech in the general debate, I will draw up apologies. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová apologizes from 18.50 to 23.59 for family reasons. And now it is Mr Mašek's turn in the general debate. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u329	Madam President, my colleagues, my fellow ministers, I would like to express myself in three areas. The first area would be the activity of the government as a whole, the second area would be the area of health and the third issue of internal security. The first question. I quote from the current government's programming statement: We want a state that does not live on debt. We want to become smart, efficient and economical. We want families to have a place to live and a good education for their children. We want to support small and medium-sized companies, the pillar of our economy. - All of this can be signed, but the government's current activities and its current progress are a bit of a concern that some of these points should not fall on the altar of the homeland because the government's agenda is being modified. On the contrary, I would like to say what we blame the government for. It must go away here and it should go away here several times, and I can imagine that it should be part of each of our opposition Members' speeches to repeat the thirteen sins of the Fialův Government, as well as our President, Mrs Schillerová, by means of Madam President. First, historically the largest increase in debt and record spending of the state. Secondly, the optical improvement of the state budget deficit, unsubstantiated, and the further exhaustion of CZK 54 billion from the European Union. Thirdly, the loss of income from the EET that you have abolished and thus the promotion of the grey economy. Fourthly, raising taxes and promoting gambling. Fifthly, the greatest poverty between OECD countries and the largest poverty of the population of the Czech Republic in history. [[Six.]] The most expensive electricity and gas in the European Union through purchasing power. Seven, insufficient and slow helping families... and, sorry, companies. Eight o'clock, social peace breach. Nine, chaos in health care and inability to provide enough medicine. Ten, trying to censor information in public space. Eleventh time, trying to control Czech TV. In the 12th, unsolved corruption cases of the government parties. And for the thirteenth, unused Presidency in the Council of the European Union. Now to the health sector. Today, after more than 24 hours, I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to respond to the speech of the Minister of Health, Professor Válek. Yesterday we heard here first the so-called PŠM - this was called the team's political training. Professor Válek did not forgive himself for recalling Trump, Berlusconi, Ukraine, Putin and Andrej Babiš. I think it was redundant. He also pointed out that, in fact, everything that went wrong is the legacy of the previous government. On the issue of drugs he mentioned that he had been dealing with it since December. It looked like we had boobs in it, but it was six months later than it needed to be. The Commission, which takes care of this, is now meeting every Wednesday, and the determination of the remuneration for medicines is being addressed. I understand that this may be an administrative problem, but, for example, the Němec went over very quickly, and when they found out that the drugs were missing, they said with such a quick decision that the price didn't matter, that they would buy it at any cost, and that they would deal with it additionally. They also went to the fact that they would not need leaflets in German and accepted them in other languages. All of this here is a problem that's solvable, and we can deal with it on the run. And I want to remind you that in the past government, planes would actually take off to maybe several continents, and with the drugs, those planes came back. That's the difference in approach and problem solving. We're really signaling problems here, we're going to solve them, we're setting up a committee. The minister mentioned here that there was a panic around Nurofen, his lack, and that the people had redeemed him. It's partly true. But how is it that the same people bought this Nurofen in Austria, Poland, Germany, very close to the border, and that the inhabitants of these states did not panic and bought it just because the Čech were going to buy it? It's just that the other states were far from in such a miserable situation. The same is true of antibiotics, but we'd probably spin in circles. Then the minister here explained the drugs to Ukraine. Yes, indeed, some speculation about how many trucks went to Ukraine, that's probably really wrong, and just say what kind of medication it was, what kind of medication it was, and just calm down the citizens, because this increases unnecessary hostility towards helping Ukraine, and we're getting somewhere else. What I'm interested in here, and now I'm gonna quote. The Minister said there are problems everywhere, but we are the best. Well, he really didn't make sense to me, because we're definitely not the best, and the opposite is true. And the last thing I'm gonna name here is the minister brought it back to the former Babišův government. Covid for Babiš all wrong, covid for our government all well. But he admitted that it's a different covid, that it's another population that's been partially inoculated, and that omicron has a completely different clinical image and severity than the previous variants. He also mentioned happy New Year's Eve 2021 and things like that, but I say, if we look at it objectively, Minister, it's more the credit of the covid and how it behaves than your government. I have already mentioned here in the context of factual, and I will remind you very briefly, a balance sheet visit to the Ministry of Health, when - and it was specifically 22. 11. 2022 - the minister was praised, the ministry worked optimally, nothing was said about medications, nothing about lack of doctors and nurses, nothing about emergency rooms, and a week later they started really in big trouble. Output was - quality care is there for everyone. So why can't I give my support to the health government? Basic meds are missing, E.R. crashing. I will remind you that since January 1 in Motol, for example, the emergency for children, more than a million inhabitants, of which some percentage of the children, and it was without compensation, day-to-day. I'm not saying that Motol would be legally obliged to provide the emergency, but it provided it, the population was used to it, and now these people have nowhere to turn with those children to dental science. Similarly, since 1 January, three places of emergency have collapsed, for example in the Liberec Region and other parts of the Czech Republic. A large percentage of the population does not have dental care available. For example, in the North Moravian Region, it is said that there are 100,000 people without a dentist, which means they are going around in the emergency room. They're not children's doctors, they're practitioners, they're not psychiatrists. 1,000 doctors and 3,000 nurses are missing. Indeed, last year, 14 billion were taken away from health care. I understand that they might be on those insurance companies' accounts, but they would be in the right place, and the government could also decide on their other application, not to take them to health care and spread it to other departments, but it could have just used them with a little goodwill, and in our legislative support, for example, to increase the motivation of health professionals so that we can pay well for health professionals and lure paramedics from abroad. Now we can expect exactly the opposite, because health wages are stagnating. [[19.10 hours]] At this time, the government is planning overstandards that mask insurance. Professor Válek, you and I both know that at the moment our citizens are getting a very high standard and they're putting something in there that we could use extra insurance... In fact, putting the extra money into that health care thing, it's basically not gonna work, or we're gonna have to take away the part of the care they're guaranteed by the constitution today. They have guaranteed its scope, so it's just not possible. We both know that. And if you want to talk about reducing the current standard and then adding some extra insurance, let's say it out loud, let's talk about it, but I don't think it's appropriate. Another recipe for your government, when in times of absolute lack of certain medicines you come out with the fact that you want to increase VAT on medicines, also seems completely out of place. I've already mentioned the results of our government, the salary that we've achieved with nurses and doctors. The fact that we have managed to increase the flow of funds by hundreds of billions into health care and have thus reached the EU's first league, when from 7 %, 7.5 percent of VAT on health care has reached 10 percent, and this corresponds to the quality and scope of care, and we are now, or your government, returning it to the original parameters, so we cannot expect not only to guarantee current care or even increase it, increase quality, increase availability, but, of course, it must turn out exactly the other way. And those people feel it. Then, Minister, there is one more thing I would like to tell you. You keep your hands off health care as a whole and pretend to have your established organizations, you can get information from there, you know the waiting time, you know what the quality of care is and so on, and you say you can't do more. You said that about the emergency room, that you couldn't interfere, that the emergency room was regional, and that it was in the authorities. In further discussions, you admitted that you have to deal with the Regional Association Chief and that you will deal with the regions, and I believe you are already doing so. But then I would like to, and we will certainly be happy to help you in this legislatively as an opposition, say what you need so that you can obtain valid information from regional hospitals as well. So if we can do something about the emergency, we can know what it looks like in the county hospitals, and we can influence them. And by the way, there's Law No. 2/1969 Coll., the law of the Czech National Council on the establishment of ministries and other state bodies, he is a very bearded law, he probably would like to admit some changes, because it is actually a competence law, and he clearly speaks of the Ministry of Health responsible for health services. In other words, it's very simple to say, but you have the mandate to take care of general health care for citizens and their level of health services, you just have the mandate by law. It's just a question of whether you want to look for him or not. So that's a couple of health notes. I've said a lot here in different factual ways, so I wouldn't want to extend it. Then I have a few comments on the safety issue. It is a reaction to Mr. Rakušan's performance. Again, we could not react immediately. So in our response to the refugee crisis in Ukraine, we shocked the whole of Europe. I'll take it. Really quantitatively it was amazing, we were able to register hundreds of thousands of Ukrajinec, we wanted to help. However, we have pointed from the start to the Security Committee, starting from March, to the lack of quality of the registration. There's no migration plan. And in the end, it turns out that the other guys really did it, not the Ministry. The Home Secretary wanted to shake his responsibilities off and repeatedly tried to resign during last year and be replaced by some government agent for migration, which we would not want. We've argued here that from the diction of crisis laws, it's about the Minister's responsibility. He's politically responsible for this. And he really stayed there, he shared it, but it really was with the mistakes that we are catching up on at the moment. We all know we've recently approved Lex Ukraine 4, we're going to have Lex Ukraine 5. Halfway through it, we just underestimated it at the beginning. We still don't know how many Ukrajinec we have here. I note that they are paid for by the state as a state insurance company. The assumption is that there's about half of them, but it's an estimate. This estimate results from the fact that significantly fewer children entered our schools, or that the Ukrajinec, who were to fulfil their obligation to health insurance companies, fulfilled it out of less than 50 percent to declare their relationship with the state, whether they work here or are registered at the employment office and so on. So we didn't succeed. We'll catch up, but we catch up after a year and a half, which is a mistake. The Minister has been repeatedly brought to the attention and has put the problems into play. Next thing. Presentation of the results of the Ministry of Interior, or I will be specific, Police of the Czech Republic. I was honored to say that when I said somewhere on Facebook that the police president had informed us that we had a 19 percent increase in crime year on year, the minister in some tweet called me a disinformer. I think I've had the pleasure of being so labeled along with my honored colleague Mrs. Mračková Vildumetzová. And they turned out to be other things. Indeed, overall crime has increased by 19 percent. We can talk about how it was before the covid, but compared to 2021, 2020, 2022, that's just the way it is. It's possible that the preface situation was a little different. But all I'm quoting here is a presentation of the police president. However, when the police president presented us with more hard data, for example, that the number of murders increased by 50 percent year on year from 105 to about 150, by 45, and another parameter that cybercrime increased by 100 percent, these are just numbers that I will be able to conduct a professional discussion about, but I do not just consider it disinformation when they are numbers that state the Police Presidium as official. Next. I have already mentioned the issue of migration on the legal migration, Ukrainian. And now about the migration, we also mentioned it here today, and that's the illegal one. The point was that it really needed to protect the Slovak-Czech border. It was because we were in a paradoxical situation that we had a lot of migrants passing through. The police were totally pretending it was okay. It was probably not official, but it was a good thing when they passed through and went on to Germany. But then it happened that the Němec began to hold them back and return them to us. Because there are some Readmission Agreements and we honored them, so we took them over and in our attempt to return them to Slovakia, where they came from, the Slovák were oddly screwed and didn't take them away from us. So that's why we started protecting the border. It was even for our impulse. As an opposition, we called on the Minister to do so. It fulfilled its purpose, and after about two months it dropped almost to zero. They were dozens of detainees a day. The units were the smugglers every day, and that went to zero. Yet, again, when we pointed out that it is not so much needed now that random checks are enough, it has been dragging on for about two more months. We have a big problem with the fact that we're losing police officers in terms of the number of police officers. We had, like, a $6,000 shortage of cops, it's called pedestals, and what happened? Last year, 2,500 police officers left, mostly those who have 15 to 25 years of work, so they are the most experienced policemen, and their departure is terribly lacking. It's 400 percent, in other words four times more than in other years when it used to be about 600 police officers. [[19.20 hours]] The fact that we managed to recruit some 1,900 young people is a big question, which one of them will actually stay there. And otherwise, it takes about five years to turn it into a cop who's able to replace the ex-boyfriends in part and work the way he should. So the situation is trivial from the personnel point of view, and I understand that I was talking to the police president about the fact that there is an attempt to somehow motivate the existing ones not to leave, but it just doesn't work, and you need to look at it as a government and suggest a solution, because so far, this personnel development is tragic and is threatening the functioning of the police. What I'd like to say here is that the cops have basically exhausted their overtime money. In the individual local departments, the cops have overtime that they didn't have before, and according to my information, and here I would like to ask for the reaction of Minister Rakušan, and I would very much like to apologize if it isn't true, sometime in March, the money for overtime should come. So what do we do then? Furthermore, the situation in the area of misinformation has been very much discussed at the moment. It's been very discussed here today at expert level among lawyers. I would just like to go back to the fact that a new service of the Minister was created in the Ministry, it is how we asked additionally, the department not in service, but they are civilian employees, their name is KRIT, it is a crisis intervention team, and its role should be to give the minister actually topics to monitor situations, possible radicalisation, for example in the state administration, and to respond to it in a timely manner and to motivate the civil servants positively. This KRIT team also participated together with the Minister and together with the association Dekomunizace.cz In fact, that collage hanging on the Home Office building. I already talked about it today. I'm not gonna blur it anymore. However, there it turned out that it was a business relationship, an order from the Ministry to the Decomunization association, to order three pieces of these collages, one of which was posted. But what struck me most was that on the Security Committee, where he performed and where we had the opportunity to ask about the activities of this body called KRIT, in relation to this particular collage, Mr Hanousek admitted that the collage was actually created intentionally. It came up with the fact that on the day of statehood celebration there should have been demonstrations on the Letenské plain, and that it was this hanging collage that was supposed to impress those demonstrating and suppress their relationship to their own nation, patriotism and the like, to be ashamed of themselves, because they, for the most part, went there because they wanted to protest against the current government, against how they didn't solve their problems, against the bad economic situation, so that they felt actually wrong, that they were like treasons or some proputinists, which was very sad for me, and Mr Hanousek said: well, they moved the demonstration somewhere else. It felt like he was sorry. So these things are unbearable to me, and I'd like the Home Office not to go this way towards the public. I've already talked about most of these things, but I would mention one more thing, and that's the Home Secretary's personnel policy. When we remember, the Home Secretary did a couple of personnel scoops. One where I'd be rooting for him, but he didn't finish it, and that was the media appeal of Director Knap from the post office for his contacts with Mr Redl, and I assume that even for the poor management of the post office, which the government has now had to bail out quite a high amount. But for me there is a big question mark: in front of people publicly from the OVM program message - departure, by the end of September replacement. We've got the end of the year here, and Mr. Knap is about to be one of the candidates to run the mail again. I don't understand. Then it was the question of Mr Mlejnek's nomination to the head of the ÚZSI, i.e. the selection of the main spy in the country. Aware of the number of problems around this person, his contacts, the question of his wife's business with sensitive material abroad, the detention of her partner in a company in Turkey, some strange redemption from Turkey a few years ago and so on. Yet the Minister insisted. Yet he insisted on the government. From my point of view, the government even lied a little bit that there was no problem, and it turned out the way it did. Now, an attempt to install Mr. Chrástecký, a lawyer who, as it turns out, had a problem with some kind of thug proselytizing, for which he was also convicted. Well, luckily, thanks to journalists, it was revealed in time, and the Minister washed his hands and dropped it on his pirate deputy. I know him from his former role in the Security Committee, a decent colleague, a Member of Mr Kolařík. They're just some of the minels of the Home Secretary in the personnel field. And what we can't forget is the question - and we've been drawing attention to this for a long time, basically from the beginning, when Mr. Rakušan joined the Ministry of the Interior. Non-standard influence of the former police president, actually pushing him to resign, despite the problems of financing STAN, which were closed by the fact that the main actor died, through the action Dosimeter, through the accelerated reorganisation of the NCOZ, when we know that any reorganisation of such a unit would slow the investigation. And just Mr. Rakušan behind all this. Mr. Rakušan, chairman of the movement, which has the greatest corruption problems in this period. It's too much to remember other things, but I don't want to delay it. So what I wanted to say here is that there is a long-term bad job in the ministry, and the reasons I have put here, whether they were reasons in the area of security, the reasons in the area of health and the bad activity of these ministries, make me think that in no way I can support this government and, on the contrary, I will support the vote on its distrust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u330	Thank you. Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Health Válek are interested in speaking with priority rights. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u331	Thank you, Mr President. I'm here now, and I'm sorry he took advantage of the priority right, and I'm sure I won't be answering that long, but I wouldn't have it in two minutes. We will certainly discuss a number of things without emotion and without appeal to the Ministry of Health, when there will be a health committee, we already have a preliminary deadline in early February, if the Chairman of the Health Committee confirms the deadline, so I think we'll meet soon and discuss a number of things. But, and I understand now that it is due to the fact that simply an MP, no matter whether from the coalition or from the opposition, cannot have all the information that the Minister has, that there are things that may come out here to the person who has the information, to the person who has the information, to say the truth or to the conscious lies, but that is not the case. I understand that, and that is why I am absolutely not angry with my colleague Mašek because it is due to the fact that it is based on some information that is in the media or where. [[19.30 hours]] And a typical example is the information about Germany, when the Minister of Health of Germany said he would buy drugs - a colleague of the epidemiologist, a very decent person who makes a political statement that is completely unrealistic. Because - perhaps he knows it, through you, Mr Farhan, because he worked at the Ministry of Health and knows the systems in those countries. In Germany they have a central purchase from one distributor and it is completely out of their reach to make any purchase because they do not have similar legislation as is valid in the Czech Republic from 1. 12. 2023. [[2022?]] I mean, their state can't buy anything. Yes, the situation in many countries is much worse. I do not want to name it and I will be happy to say it personally, but at present in Germany there is a desperate shortage of one of the absolutely basic and vital categories of medicines that threatens millions of citizens in the absolutely basic treatment. The problem is in all of Europe, in all countries, there are some categories of drugs missing in each of them. That's why we're monitoring it with the group. That is why we focus on the Czech market and therefore use from 1. The 12th law we have. Without this law, we would be very, very weak and we could not take many of these steps. Those are just facts you can verify. And I, because I really - and I really mean this dead seriously - my colleagues, not only doctors, but, above all, colleagues of doctors, regardless of which side they are in this Chamber of Deputies, do I appreciate it, then between the four eyes - or how do you put it right? With your eyes? In private? Four eyes. Thank you so much. I'm a little nervous - between the two of us, we're gonna explain this personally. But technically, without the law, it didn't work. So did the information that's coming out here, and I didn't deny that there was a sentence from my colleague Vildumetzová, who was only in one long speech, so there was no way that it was a blackout or something that would signal the situation. Let's remember who goes to the health committee to tell them about the drugs, what the blackouts are. After all, whom did the opponents, but also the coalition - and I could name some, you know - criticize that the information is not accurate enough and so on. She's the director of the SÚKLU, she's Dr. Storová, we all know that. And SÚKL is a top organ, has over 500 employees. The director won when he led the Ministry of Health - that was when the director of SÚKLU was called off and Minister Vojtěch selected Mrs Storová in the tender. And I had no reason to doubt, and I have no reason to doubt that she's a top expert when my predecessor chose her. And yet, this body, which has information from all the countries of the European Union, has it from other "sukles" and has over 500 - I don't know - 80 employees, and is led by an expert who has won bankruptcy proceedings, a state official, so still this body in the middle or in the beginning, in the first half of November informed not only me but also the public: absolutely nothing is going on. He didn't inform us this way on the Health Committee until I found out that the information was, say, slightly optimistic, and I found out from the pharmacists, yes, I found out from the public, from you, so I acted immediately. I immediately acted and within the week managed to secure - within the week managed to secure 340 000 pieces of Nurofen. The supplies - and now I'm defending the SÚKL and defending all those who, say, could have had better predictions in the organization. There's been a situation here that there's been a really huge amount of drugs imported, relatively large amounts compared to the prefrontal years and large quantities compared to the covido years, I don't have to talk about that at all. Then after the covido years, there were no supplies, but that's not a criticism, it's a definition of the state, and yet the consumption was much higher. The explanation isn't just the illness, the explanation is that there was some sort of panic. But I'm glad the situation is handled, that it's handled well. We brought, yes, 10,000 packs of penicillin for one week - one week. The weekly consumption is less than 10,000 packs. We really come from hard data and hard statistics. And the fact that in some countries at some point the drug is and is not in others is absolutely logical and obvious. Just because the blackouts occurred at a certain time, and if the country had a batch made, it was a package in that language for their country that their distributors ordered before the blackouts started, so she just got a whole lot of them. If the country was supposed to have the van made at the moment when the blackouts began to start, when the market gradually started to collapse, of course, she had a problem at the time. We must say that we have a Czech company Zentiva - she is not Czech, but our public sees it as a Czech company. The Czech company Zentiva manufactures syrup for children to treat, say, temperatures or colds, which is a variant - it could be a variant of the Nurofen. There are a lot more products that are a variant of Nurofen. But this syrup is not on the Czech market. Why? Because Zentiva is not interested in registering it on the Czech market. I don't know the reasons, and I'll discuss it with the management of the company, why it doesn't want to register this syrup on the Czech market. The answer is that the manufacturer of Nurofen has a dominant position on the Czech market and they do not want to penetrate the market. There's a lot of explanations, there's a lot of reasons. And if we talk without emotions, and it really would be a debate about it - and here by your means, I have been watching the debate about universities very much, and I would like to thank you for a very correct debate in terms of philosophical faculties. I was talking about it with Martin Bareš, the dean... The Rector of Masaryk University, a person I personally appreciate extremely much, I will also discuss it with the Rector of Charles University, purely because the medical faculties are part of the system. So here's the professional problem, and I'm glad that this debate is professional, that we're trying to find some solutions here, and we all realize that this solution isn't easy at all, that it's complicated. And it doesn't matter which minister is in charge of the issue at the moment, because here we need to deal with the complex issue. And the Minister of Education has defined it very well. And - through you - Mr Rais discussed it very well and I liked it very much. So I think that if we free ourselves from the emotions associated with removing the government - and from the logic of the matter, when we called off the previous government, also here of course the emotions were - then the Czech Republic really did it to ensure the market, and it's not just because I'm a minister, I would do it this way, but because I'm lucky we managed to prepare legislation last year that allows me to do something absolutely unique: basically buy any medicine, bring it to the Czech Republic, set it up in an extremely short time and have it on the market. If I didn't have the law like my colleagues don't, I wouldn't have done anything. Well, the last thing I'd like to briefly mention is the emergency room. Yes, it must be said here that the topic has been raised by Mr. Governor Kuba, I am very happy about it, but by law, and we all know the law, and by implementing decrees, and we all know it, we are simply responsible for the ER. And now I'm not saying that the law is well written. I am not saying that the law is of good quality, but the law requires a consensual approach of individual associations, i.e. practical physicians for adults, practical doctors for children and, of course, practical specialists, and regions, and we need to look for solutions and a definition of problems such as the difference between urgent intake and emergency. And that is an expert subject that we are discussing together. And I think we agree across all the political parties. Those who are interested in this issue need to look for a way to balance the idea that any doctor who is a practice that is not in the hospital should somehow provide for an emergency, while realizing that we are getting older by the medical population and we cannot ask the elderly doctor when we are simply glad that he cares for registered patients to continue serving those emergencies. Plus, we have to look for the problem that the doctor, if he's in the hospital, should be a contract worker, should be an employee of the hospital. And serve an emergency 30 years ago, when there was no digitalization, an electronization of health care, where a pencil, paper, and medical history were enough? Today, when the doctor has to be able to work with the hospital's information system, he has to be able to get into the pax, which is something he insists on, which he needs to be trained for, he has to have his identifiers, he has to have his code, he has to have the card he's logged in, and he should have the emergency room, or he should have the service once a month, once every two months, it's not quite that simple. This means that this law will have to change in some way, but it has to change so that it is fair to all those involved and has one single goal. The goal is very simple: to ensure available emergency care and to ensure an available emergency for children and adults in the Czech Republic, as it reflects today's situation and so that we take into account that medicine has fundamentally changed since the law applied, that it is digital, that telemedicine is there. [[19.40 hours]] Well, the last thing I'm going to comment on is the above-standards. I've never - and the government never said it wanted to introduce excesses. At our party's program conference, I explained why it's nonsense to talk about overstandards today. And I am glad that it was easy, by your means, in what my colleague Mašek said. It's that we have clinical recommended procedures. They triggered my predecessor, the predecessor, now I will not make fun of myself and I will not count the five ministers in that one year, but I am talking about normal standard ministers, which means, I think it was launched at the time of Minister Němečka and I am involved in this by Professor Adámková, she participated in this, I think Professor Špičák was involved, Professor Vyzula was pulled into it and many other colleagues who are in this Chamber of Deputies and beyond. [[unintelligible]] They were not drawn there as politicians, they were dragged there as experts in their fields. I, for example, participated in the clinical recommended procedure for colorectal cancer and rectal cancer and some others not as an MP, but as a member of the Society's Committee on Gastrointestinal Oncology, as the scientific secretary of the company. These clinical procedures are just about to define what a standard is and what an overstandard is, but to define what an unabated quality of care is. I am absolutely thrilled that not only did all the doctors of the professional society agree on this, but that, above all, those doctors from different political parties agreed on this, threw aside the political gloves and agreed on a common approach. But it never said anything about standards or overstandards. Health care, as it is paid in the Czech Republic, must increase its quality and, above all, must bring the differences closer to the quality. Just if we know before treatment of rectal cancer that it is necessary to perform magnetic resonance imaging of the rectum, then all patients with this diagnosis in the Czech Republic must have this examination. And there can't be a train under it. Another thing is the possibility of extra insurance. And there's some space here. These may be new practices in telemedicine and connections with some artificial intelligences, such as areas of socio-health, where payments already take place today. But it can't be anything a patient consumes under health insurance today. There we must increase availability and quality. I mean, this government has never mentioned a word, and it never will, unless I'm the Minister of Health, that we should promote any excesses. It doesn't matter what I want or don't want. The reason is simple - it's not even theoretically possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u332	Thank you, Minister. I looked at it fast, it's right with four eyes. So it's like you said. We have some factual points here. Mr Richard Brabec will be the first to prepare Mr Kamal Farhan and Mr Robert králíček will be the next to prepare.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u333	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, fellow Members, honourable Members of the Government, a brief response to the Minister of Health. Thank you for maybe the reaction. I am not a doctor, and I have the opportunity to simplify this inappropriately at the moment, which Jirka Mašek or any of the honored colleagues and colleagues of doctors could not afford. But I was in that government for eight years, I was in the government when we were really dealing with covid here, and then Adam Vojtěch was subjected here many times to cross-examinations and to brutal blackmail type: Mr. Minister, you can do that all you want. Do you have drapes? Can't you get one in the world? Bring them from another planet, from Mars, whatever, just get them. And this was a clear order from the opposition at the time, and the drapes at that moment or shortly thereafter were not available anywhere. I'm sure all of Europe imported them. You know, they were mostly imported from China by airplanes, everyone overreacted, almost hijacked those planes to land before they did. And in this situation, Minister, when I take it, and that was a really critical situation, we know - even I, as a layman - that Professor Prymula warned months ago that we could expect a strong flu epidemic precisely because the flu has not been here for two years, that we should be prepared for this as well as the drugs. And that's why I, just like you were Adam back then, and Adam was always explaining and suffering with his innate decency, so I'm just saying, Mr. Secretary, do it all you want, but get it. [[Unintelligible]] SÚKL, take the plane, but make sure everyone has antipyretics, antibiotics. If they can do it in Poland, they can do it here. That's the way to simplify it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u334	Thank you. Another enrollment is Mr Farhan, then Mr králíček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u335	Mr President, Mr Minister, thank you for the floor. I have three notes on your two performances. The first thing is that you said here that you got 340,000 packages of Nurofen in a week, which is commendable, but my question is, why didn't you start by a month or two early on with the search if it only takes one week? So that's my first point. The second point is that you said that the people who made it in that language had priority, the drugs. According to the law, we have the possibility to import foreign-language packaging into the Czech Republic, which means packaging which is not in Czech, the medicines. And we can even deliver, if necessary or required by the situation, even unregistered medicines. So what I'm most interested in in your previous performance, and now I'm going to quote, no doubt that was the response to the 14 billion health insurance policy by the government of Petr Fiala. Quote: Undoubtedly every crown in health care is good. Only a paramedic insane would say he wants less money. - But I didn't notice that you or anyone would be moping for this medical money not to be collected. Even the real spectrum I know didn't vote against it, it voted to make the money go away. And in conclusion, let me thank the paramedics on the left side of the spectrum, who are not these lunatics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u336	Thank you. Now, please, Mr. Králíček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u337	Mr President, Minister, fellow Members, I would really like to start by saying that the Minister has spoken and that he has spoken because he is one of the few ministers who has spoken here. However, at his performance was seen the crucial disproportion, when we can speak for two minutes, he as minister can speak for an unlimited period of time. He spoke quite long and comprehensively, for which he thanked him, because the discussion was, of course, constructive. I'm not a medic, I don't want to evaluate it, but maybe if he had been so open 14 days ago and approved at least one point about the drugs and health care, we didn't have to sit here for three days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u338	Thank you. Mr Zlínský is signed up with another de facto, and then the Minister is declared with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u339	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I am addressing the Minister through you. I have two questions for him. I don't know if I got that right, but he was talking about some kind of incontrovertible minimum in the treatment of various diseases. I have a feeling it's opening up space right now, he finally said it, for some forms of insurance. So I think that the fact that we're going to set ourselves some unobtrusive minimum can lead to some diversification of treatment provision. Then I'd like to ask you, when he was talking about artificial intelligence systems and telemedicine, since I admit that I'm very curious about the details, so I'd like to ask him if he could bring it closer to us, what should be the case with the treatment of colorectal cancer. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u340	Thank you. And the Minister will respond. As a matter of fact, or as a priority? Priority.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u341	Mr President, thank you, with priority. But I'll try to be even shorter than I was before. I didn't reach the space Mašek had in that answer, and I won't hold back because now there's a government appeal meeting. Interpelations are on Thursday, and I'm going to do my best to be here for every interpelation, and I like the questions that are, I'm always going to answer because the interpelations are a far more constructive debate. On the other hand, I ask only too much not to be reprimanded for this, as I did last time, when I really tried to respond carefully, in detail and in depth to the interpellation of my esteemed colleague, through you, Mr Farhan, and did not get to the others. For this reason, I repeat again, and I will be very happy to meet with the Health Committee not only on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, but on specific topics at the Ministry, where individual ministry staff can also be at the same time. Of course, even though I've been in health care my whole life in different positions, I still don't know everything, I can't know everything, it's always better if he gives you that information. Remember how happy you were when Director Grygarová first told you what was supposed to be of the national plan, or what the previous government approved from the national plan. [[Unintelligible]] You didn't know. Members of the opposition didn't know either. And now for some of these comments. I don't think I've ever treated Minister Vojtěch in the way that one of the performers has commented on here, through you, but that's something I don't think there's any point in dissecting. It's just not in my nature. I'll talk a lot better and talk about professional matters, talk about what's for the benefit of the patients. Once again, everyone has a role to play, and as we have the State Office for Nuclear Safety, this is the authority that guards nuclear safety, where we trust the head of that office, Mrs. President Drábová, that if any risk arises, he warns the relevant minister and government, so we have the State Bureau for Drug Control. The head of the State Institute after drug control, Dr. Storová, didn't draw attention to the risks. And I can't even blame her, because the amount of medicine that was supposed to be imported into the Republic in November was really big. The problem was increasing consumption, and the problem was that producers in Europe, as well as some of the articles of the distribution chain, started to fall unexpectedly. Combining those things, I really don't think anyone could have assumed. And the fact that no one anticipated it is that the situation is really in all of Europe. I think it's pointless to repeat it over and over again. All of you here in this Chamber of Deputies and you're paramedics, you have a number of your colleagues in those countries. Yes, we can tell you the examples here that I'm going to go to one or another pharmacy in one country or another and get some medicine that I can't find here at the pharmacy, that's where I'm going to get it. We can call ourselves the examples. But if you call your colleagues and you really ask your friends who work there at the pharmacy, do pharmacists, or are members of their association, they'll confirm that what I'm saying here is true. It's completely pointless and pointless for me to lie here. For one thing, I have no reason to think of it as something that degenerates me. I've never done anything like this before, and I'm not gonna do it. I am too old for that, and I too appreciate this Chamber of Deputies and you sitting here, both left and right. You don't have to trust me, you can perform and attack again and again, but it still doesn't change the fact that I'm gonna tell the truth here. I'm just not gonna tell you anything but what's true, what's verified, and what I'm really finding out. I guarantee that, not as a minister of some government, but as Professor Vlastimil Válek, a doctor who spends his entire life in medicine and cares nothing but patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u342	Thank you. And since - factual, yes. There is another de facto Mr Zlínský. Is the de facto one working? No, it's okay. So we can go to the other properly logged in. And this is Mr. Jiří Mašek... He was a yes, it's true, I was just swapping with a colleague here, so I didn't erase him. [[unintelligible]] And another is Mr. Rais. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u343	Good evening. Mr Vice-President, Minister, fellow Members, I would like to focus particularly on education in this contribution. We talked about science and research, and the Minister is not here, so I would consider it unfair to comment even further. I think it was quite clear from this afternoon's discussion that, in essence, we need to get the so-called big amendment to the Science and Research Act here to Parliament as quickly as possible. The little amendment was approved by the previous House, and, as I recall, there was a consensus, as the phrase is, across the political parties we agreed on the law. Well, let's hope the big one is similar. So it's about education. This January last year, Prime Minister Fiala's government issued a programme statement stating - and I quote: "The future of every developed country is closely linked to the quality of education. Our education system will therefore have to respond to the challenges facing us and have schools that can prepare our children and young citizens for life in society 21. "of the century." So much for the declaration that the government wants to implement a whole series of ambitious measures. And one of the main measures that the government promised to implement - I quote again: "Get more funding for education." In its overall vague electoral statement or programme statement, the government stated clearly that it guarantees a high-quality salary assessment of pedagogical workers and a wage maintenance level of 130 per cent of the average gross monthly wage. The emphasis was intended to maintain a 20% share of the above-standard salary components and their effective use. Basically, as I said in the afternoon, the promises of maintaining the salaries of pedagogical workers at 130 percent of the average gross monthly wage did not take place last year, nor will it happen this year. One of these arguments is that the level of teacher's salary has essentially fallen since 2021 in relation to the average wage. Among other things, the study of our renowned colleagues Münich and Smolka called Teacher's Plates in 2021 is quite detailed: the peak reached and what next? And what they're talking about right now is that essentially the pay curve is going down. What's worse, when you talk about pedagogics, you basically lack the salaries of administrative workers, janitors and simply unedagogical workers when I generalize them. On that occasion, as I said this afternoon, I consider it an obligation to emphasise that the previous government of Andrej Babiš fulfilled its promises in the field of school policy. And this was accepted by the opposition now ruling. I spoke this afternoon about the salaries of academic staff in universities. I'd hate to repeat myself. The rates of scientists' teachers in universities or universities as compared to the average salaries of people with higher education outside universities are between 26 and 41 percent lower in the Czech Republic. The docent category is below minus 10 per cent below the mean. And basically regional education teachers are better off than their college colleagues. As regards the category of assistant assistant, it is about 12 to 26% lower than in the case of teachers in secondary schools or primary schools. [[20.00 hours]] We were aware of this in autumn, this situation, that it would be necessary to increase the average monthly gross wage by 5 to 6 per cent, in the form of a flat-rate increase in the salaries of employees in higher education. By calculating on the basis of the current data, we have found that to increase the average rates by 10 percent, including social and health insurance, compared to the situation in 22, I would need CZK 1,430,000,000, and therefore, together with Professor Vondrák, the chairman of the school committee, I tabled an amendment to increase the expenditure of Chapter 333 on the mentioned CZK 1,430,000,000. This proposal, of course, because it was opposition, was thrown off the table. In the field of salary, scissors are increasingly opened between the salary of teachers, university scientists and professional staff, on the one hand, and the salaries of similarly qualified industrial and civil servants. On the one hand, the government talks about the quality of higher education in the programme statement, on the other hand, I think that the reality is actually completely different. To supplement, or to make it clear that it is independent, that it does not have any political subtext, I would like to briefly quote from the press release of the Association of Deans of Philosophical Faculties, where it is stated that the Faculty of Philosophy is facing the departures of academic staff into regional education. I have already mentioned this essentially that there is actually a difference of about 14,000 crowns less if he is working at the Philosophical Faculty or teaching in high school. Well, the conclusion of this report is pretty trivial, because the dean of the Faculty of Arts of the University of Ostrava speaks of the fact that many academic workers are unable to secure their cost of living. It's from November of Ostrava, when the meeting was. Thus, as a similar, not as detailed analysis, I am able essentially to show on a number of examples what happens between, for example, mathematics and people who teach natural sciences at technical universities. There's this situation... that just doesn't have a chance to make money on the side. I would not like the views of the deans of the Philosophical faculties to be lightened because they are people who work in the front line and with faculty employees who know the situation much more real than the Members here in the Chamber of Deputies. There are many points that I think need to be dealt with together with the Ministry. I believe the Minister spoke about this in part this afternoon. It is necessary to complete the revision of the framework education programmes, with emphasis on the volume, content and topicality of the curriculum. That is what I think is absolutely one of the key things that needs to be done, and I think it would be good for us to be informed gradually at a time, at a time, what the Ministry of Education and the relevant commissions are doing. As far as the quality of higher education is concerned, I have a traditional opinion there, and this is confirmed by the present law on teaching workers, when the quality is shifted to lower managerial levels from the level of the ministerial body, which accredits the relevant study programmes to the level of actually educational non-profit institutions, which, of course, contributes, which is clearly reflected in poor quality during the time, in the poor quality of the specific study programme. I'm back from my experience about four or eight years ago, when we kind of moved like this in foreign study programs, namely LLM, and then other MBAs. Today, what it means, we see it slowly in our own post, when it offers you slowly with a computer, and it is not worth talking about the quality of these institutions at all. So I take this as a trend that needs to be stopped and which I think we should watch as Members or as politicians. Further, we need the government to declare that it will focus on reducing the total volume of education and promote quality, which means understanding before quantity, memorization. It would be good for the Minister to talk again about how he actually imagines this general sentence here, which is, of course, correct, but how it is in real life. Another such problem, which is only set up and not yet solved, is the promotion of grammar schools and general education. So what is the idea of abolishing multi-annual grammar schools or limiting them, we could, of course, deal with this in the form of an intervention. But those are the things that the government put in there, and after a year, we don't really know much about it. The same applies to digitization. As regards funding for universities, the government said that by January 2024 it would adjust the system of funding for universities to take more into account quality teaching and education in professionally oriented study programmes. The budget submitted is insufficient and there is a problem again if this point will be fulfilled. Furthermore, I could talk about the impact of inflation on both diet and student housing, which will be very negative in the normal life of a normal student. And there are universities that are trying to help out with some kind of scholarship, they're universities that basically leave it to the students. This I think is important why they leave it to the students, the problem. Because they have enough problems. In essence, the state sent about CZK 800,000 million as a contribution to energy, but, in the view of universities, this increase, this small contribution here, does not compensate for the increase in prices. And now the question is, where are the funds going to go because they're reserves, but they're not endless either. So it is necessary to discuss, and I think that this has not happened much during that year, to discuss the solution of the energy crisis in the medium and long term, and to consider increasing energy self-sufficiency by heating the housings of buildings, installing roof photoelectric panels, installing heat pumps and so on. So it seems necessary to consider launching subsidy programmes with a low degree of participation by universities. I think the schools, the involvement should be about 10 percent. So these are the problems these schools face. They try to deal with them themselves, but there is clearly a need for the help of a government, which often stays with the proclamations. Another problem that the government presents in the programme statement is that it prepares a reform of the doctoral study, its financing in order to create the highest possible conditions for the quality development of the incoming scientific generation. This, according to the approved legislative work plan for 2022 - the Ministry of Education was to submit by August 2022 a draft law amending the classic law number 111 on higher education institutions and amending and supplementing other laws. In particular, the aim of legislative adjustments is to organise and conduct doctoral studies. I know the material's been developed, but it's not here yet in the House, so let's see what it actually brings us. The constant disregard of the salary policy of the entire Department of Education and, at the same time, part of science and research, along with a number of questions, some I have only actually outlined, leads me to believe that there is a need for the government to express distrust, because one thing is a nice text of the programming statement, sic vague, and the other is a reality which is clearly not fulfilled, even what it promised. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u344	Thank you, Mr Member, and please another duly logged in if no one claims priority rights, and this is Mr Tomáš Helebrant. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u345	Thank you, Mr President. My esteemed colleagues, my fellow Members, trying to voice distrust to the government is the right of every opposition, but in the situation in which our country is found, and in the context of the way in which Petr Fiala's government carries out its mandate, I consider this procedure even an obligation. If this government is not to be blamed for anything, it is definitely the first in the number of scandals that concern it from the very beginning, whether it is the entire case of the Dosimeter of the STAN movement, or the current crisis at the Department of the Environment, in which the president refuses to appoint the popular candidate Petr Hladík, who is probably involved in the business of flats in Brno. However, what I personally consider the greatest problem of this government is its absolutely inadequate and, above all, slow response to the energy crisis. The whole Republic is laughing today, and Minister Síkela is the target of many other ridiculous remarks. I'm bohužel so. To make matters worse, the Minister was also criticized by coalition politicians, especially the captains, and even the media, who are not completely inclined to the opposition, came up with a number of articles where only headlines - with electricity he slept, He arranged, did not arrange - speak for himself. The government simply hesitated to resolve the energy crisis. In the vote of distrust, as usual, you will certainly rely on 108 votes for your certainty. But I would like to point out and appeal to you to realize that you no longer have this hundred and eighty among voters. You've managed it. I'm bohužel so. Finally, allow me to express a sad statement that while the President of the House and the chair of one of the government parties were taking photos in a T-shirt that said "no more queues for bananas," the government kept that promise in principle. But within the framework of the promise, she forgot to tell the citizens of this country that even though there will be no queues for bananas, there will be queues, and unfortunately they are already standing on drugs that are scarce. You know, throwing a towel in the ring isn't a shame. Shame is clinging to functions you can't handle. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u346	Thank you. And another of the entries is Mr Marek Novák. In the meantime, I will read an apology, Mrs Jana Pastuchová, from 19.30 to midnight for personal reasons. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u347	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, government, thank you. After four months, we were once again forced to call for the YES movement, but mainly for our citizens another meeting to express distrust to the government of the five-calice Petr Fiala. Yes, the opposition didn't last much longer, and today we express our distrust to a government that doesn't care about the citizens of our state and spends almost all its time on its own. A government that has put its interests above the interests of citizens. A government that lets people get poor, takes their savings, and it really doesn't care if people have anything to cook on, what to drown on, and what to live on. And to seniors who have to go to the benefits office, he's gonna scratch the fare off pretty good. Let's remember what this bunch did last six months. They boasted that they were presiding over the European Union. They also received commendation. I praise the work for the European Union, not for our country. They did nothing really for our citizens in Europe. The prices of gas and energy were sort of solved on their own because of the mild winter and the huge tension of the population. Somewhere it started to drown again with coal and somewhere else. The advance prices have simply risen, despite securing this government and its minister through the disasters of Mr Síkela, and people have reached their savings, and so far they are trying to pay. The question is, how long will it take and how long will our citizens last? According to the government, the effects of inflation will probably sort itself out. The way people run out of money, they're less buying. So this government has done nothing except unleash the signals and the Count's councils. Today, he's actually thinking about raising taxes. That's exactly what I've been pointing out in this place recently when I told you people would run out of money, stop shopping, and the state would miss the money from tax collection. Everything will eventually be carried away on its shoulders by the citizen and his savings. Maybe it's the strategic communication that Prime Minister Fiala has a useless minister on. We're not gonna do anything. It'll sort itself out, and then we'll brag about how well it turned out, according to a method that doesn't do anything, doesn't ruin anything. I just have to say that the poor and beggar Czech Republic and its citizens will certainly not appreciate this in the current situation. Colleagues, colleagues, let's look at the new crooks of this government that she's done in the last six months. I'll start with the topic of the last meeting, the work of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Systemization has been carried out, which has put almost all subsidies to the family policy and social services section at risk. Systemization is so transparent and purposeful that reason remains that something like this could have gone through the government. This systemization has caused the collapse of funding for over-regional social services, the collapse of funding for children's groups, the collapse of funding for the exercise of the agenda for social-legal protection of children, the performance of social work and so on. All matters concerning the most vulnerable part of the citizens of the Czech Republic. Congratulations! In December last year, the Social Committee of the Chamber of Deputies, which was brought to the attention of trade unions on all risks and unfair conduct, adopted the resolution proposed by my colleague Jana Hanzlíková in which she requested to suspend this systemization by 30. 6. 2023 and obliges the Ministry to submit to investigate analyses, studies and analyses on the basis of which this systemization was designed and from which the alleged benefit, i.e. increased efficiency, process optimization and so on, is clearly derived. Nothing was submitted, systemization was initiated and the Ministry is currently completely paralyzed. Yeah, well, the decision of the relevant House Committee is probably just a bark for the Minister of Labour. It simply does not follow it, and also in this case our Minister of Social Affairs, Jurečka, intoxicated by a hundred and eight-member majority here in the House, will systematically destroy the resort and the financial system. Exactly the system that remains here as one of the last ones that can help the needy citizens. But I don't think the coalition cares. Three Members wanted to address this point at the last meeting. What about the coalition MPs? They messed it up. And what was important to them? Czech TV was important to them, not a Czech citizen in need. That's how you act! Another case of the failure of the Minister of Labour is the total exhaustion of the staff of the Labour Offices. Indeed, they no longer have the power to process applications for social benefits. It's the welfare system the Minister bragged about. It was not caused by labor officials, it was caused by a government that is driving more and more citizens into poverty, and there is nothing left to do but survive out of benefits. That means going to the employment office and applying for them. The only solution, I think, would be an immediate appeal by the Minister. But since the Prime Minister won't do that, I think the entire government must be in charge. [[20.20 hours]] Another reason for distrust is the legislative activity of this government coalition. During this parliamentary term, we are experiencing the brutal behaviour of the coalition towards the opposition, zero communication and a lack of respect for the proposals that we bring as opposition. In doing so, they can also contribute and benefit the entire country and, as one of them, protect our children. An example for all is the recently approved amendment to the Act on addictive substances. It prevents the sale of nicotine bags to juveniles. In the middle of last year, we and a group of Members and my colleagues from the ANO movement prepared the original proposal that dealt with this issue. At that time, Minister Válek refused to prepare a better proposal for the health department. At that time, the government expressed a neutral position on the entire press. And what has happened since then, dear friends? Three times in six months, I begged you out of this place, literally begged us to protect the children and discuss this proposal. You spit in our kids' faces three times. Finally, the five-police Members adopted our original proposal, changed their heads and some small things, and suddenly the discussion of this proposal, and even in an accelerated discussion, did not hinder anything. That's how our government works, that's how the coalition works? Instead of having a substantive discussion and finding common solutions, it started robbing here. Too bad the copyright doesn't apply. That would be driving one by one. That's why I'm wondering, what's the use of this government if it's just copying? I don't think it's any good. Your steps towards re-distorting the market, in the area of gastronomy and accommodation services and voluntary surrender of part of the revenue to the Treasury, have only underlined what you mean about the Republic. Yes, I'm talking about EET. Under the motto "we want Czech Klondike back" you have blocked electronic records of sales. The EET was also clearly an instrument that helped the state maintain its awareness of financial and tax conditions. By destroying him, you actually shot the state in the knee. But as I observe your reign, it's obviously a target. Chaos, incompetence, hiding behind empty proclamations, arrogance and contempt for everything and especially citizens. The next star moment in this cabinet is called digitization. We hear this motto very often here, we hear how great it is. But we still have a memoir with data boxes in our living memory. They were all supposed to have them. In the end, not everyone, just the ones they want. Actually, no, just businessmen or not, just companies... Just hockey, for which any NHL club would not have to be ashamed if it were played on ice and not in Czech executives. In these days, the government's commentary procedure was a proposal to release funds from the chapter of the General Treasury - and beware - of the government budget reserve item in favour of Chapter 364 - now such a surprise - the Digital and Information Agency. That's the government toy for the Pirates for CZK 151.5 million this year. The Digital and Information Agency was established on 1. 1. 2023, so he's been working for 18 days, but the money's still looking for it. Now they're looking, I don't have them yet. In doing so, the establishment of the Agency was approved by the pirát in mid-November. Still okay, these expenses could be added to the upcoming budget if somebody had added them, right? The amount was known. And who should fill them in? Well, maybe the Ministry of Debt. Or did this increase in the cost of running the state simply not fit the coalition, and so she wanted to take it so that no one would notice? It's not about the government's job as a proper caretaker anymore, it's literally about a big-style punk party. I will no longer talk about health care and the current lack of doctors, but I have one thing to point out to Minister Válek. If this government continues to lead our country, there will be an acute shortage of antidepressants very soon. Colleagues, my colleagues, I have really given only a few examples of incompetence, but I could say a lot more. It would not be obstruction, it would be a simple list of failures, ignorance of the real state and sloppyness of ministers who entered the government with a single theme and goal. The theme of government is simple - everything that governments have put in place here before us is wrong. And the purpose of this government? Well, the target, too, is to have a good time, no matter how it ends. At the beginning of this year, the media began the introduction from President Havel's first New Year's speech, which begins with "our country does not bloom." I have to say, yes, today is the case, thanks to you. But our country can flourish. If this country were run by people with experience in the management of their own companies, successful managers, people with visions and especially people who see beyond the tip of their own nose. That is not the kind of people that this government of deferred theorists and politicians has, and that is why, in my opinion, it has to end. Or, Dear Government, finally walk the streets of the Czech and Moravian cities, you will soon understand that without security, it would be a very rude walk. And for this condition, for pissing people off, you are responsible for your amateurism and incompetence. So please, I beg you, please don't interfere with those capable people who will be putting it in order for you for a long time. And you, fellow Members, think of those who voted for you and whom you have committed yourself to working in favour of Czech citizens and our country. Let us, please, end the agony of this government and finally say no to it today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u348	Thank you. Another of the entries is Mr Robert Stržínek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u349	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, the average school evaluation of the government of Petr Fiala last year is held in polls and questionnaires between the inhabitants of our country between three and four. As an opposition politician, I dare say that this assessment is undoubtedly objective and fair. I myself lean to the fact that the government is more sufficient than good. I'll answer why, too. Last year there was a sharp increase in fuel prices and then a rocket increase in gas and other energy prices. The solution of the government was to be the so-called Umbrella Against Poverty, but this turned out to be just some sort of administrative guide to turn to, without any practical economic impact. [[20.30 hours]] The Minister of Industry and Trade, Jozef Síkela, subsequently spent long weeks creating a so-called energy-saving tariff and promising a state energy trader. Instead of an austerity tariff, the opposition, and even the coalition chieftains Martin Kuba and Martin Půta, proposed an immediate ceiling on the prices of these commodities, which Prime Minister Fiala and his government called nonsense. And so it happened that when at the turn of August and September after a long argument finally started to pay Síkelův's austerity tariff, he lost its sense in view of the changing energy situation, and so in September, with several months' delay, the government finally adopted the idea of a price cap, with its very amount and other techniques showing a number of problematic places. We don't have a state's energy dealer yet. What is the result of the stubborn, slow and chaotic efforts of government in this area? Although we produce electricity for the most part, we have the most expensive electricity throughout the European Union. Czech households paid €68.2 for kilowatthours of electricity in December converted into the parity of the purchasing power of €68.2 and only €53.7 Italian and German only €46.6 per kilowatthour. In addition, Prague has more expensive electricity than Berlin at absolute prices, regardless of the amount of revenue. At the beginning of December, the Pražans paid an average of 1.8 euro cents more for a kilowatt hour than the customers in Berlin. So we can say without exaggeration that the government was unable to move towards the needy. Instead, it has created a system of unnecessarily costly area aid that will overload public finances and support the necessary as a result less than it could and should have. Also, financial aid has often gone unnecessarily to rich and well - situated people who did not need it at all. To this day, almost a year from the start of turbulent changes, it is not clear how the government will heal public finances, as it originally promised at its start. However, there is no endless justification for the mobility of the Ukraine's war, and it certainly cannot be seen as a solution to further increasing citizens' lives in the form of a well-arranged increase in various taxes or VAT for spending their daily needs. Instead, the exact opposite process for which time is calling for should be chosen, on the contrary, by reducing VAT on food, which is now 15% and is the highest of the surrounding countries. The sense is to reduce it to such a level that the Czech citizen does not have to run raids into neighbouring borders, where he buys his purchases up to tens of percent cheaper. Rakušan and Slovák pay VAT 10 %, Němec have VAT 7 percent, Maďar even 5% for selected foods. Polák whose government is serious about helping their citizens have no tax this year. On the contrary, the Fialův Government has come to believe that it will not help people in this regard. Apart from housing costs, food costs are the area where household savings are very difficult to implement. Objective calculations indicate that reduced VAT on food would be able to save 600 to 1,800 crowns a month, i.e. some 7 to 21,000 crowns a year, depending on the intensity of the reduction. This is certainly more than a government contribution of CZK 5,000 per child. By reducing VAT on food, the government would also help Czech producers and traders, because people would have no reason to go shopping for foreign neighbors. Do you still remember Fialův's words about Babišův's precious words at a time when inflation was 4.1 percent? In November 2022, the year after these Fialův statements, for which he should apologize today, inflation reached 16.2 %. According to the PAQ Research and Czech Radio data, since last year, the number of people who save nothing or are even at a minus, from 20 to 34 percent after payment of expenditure. The number of households with income below the poverty line has increased from 9 per cent at the end of 2021 to 16 per cent at present. In March, in the new situation after the attack by Ukraine by Russia, the Fialův Government boasted an ambitious plan to reduce the previous government's proposed state budget deficit by CZK 97 billion to CZK 280 billion. 8 months later, the government overruled President Miloš Zeman's veto, when the government's budget deficit increased by 95 billion to 375 billion. For this year, the Fialův Government is proposing a budget deficit of 295 billion, which is also criticized by conservative right-wing economists who should theoretically be very close to that government. In response to economic developments in the country in mid-year, Fitch, one of the three most influential credit rating agencies, has for the first time since 1998, aggravated the economic outlook of the Czech Republic from a stable to negative. This means a significant increase in the risk of deterioration of the rating. It's a kind of last warning about his own deterioration. This means, among other things, that the Czech Republic will have to borrow on different terms on international markets at higher interest rates than it would have without worsening this outlook. In the third quarter of 2022, the government of the Czech Republic managed with the highest debt so far in history. It reached CZK 2,982,5 billion, equivalent to 45.2% of gross domestic product. So far nowhere in history has the Czech government managed with a higher debt relative to GDP. For the whole year 2022, the Czech Republic's management ended with a deficit of CZK 360.4 billion. The government originally planned a budget deficit of only 280 billion for last year. So the total government debt has grown almost to 3 trillion. The average debt of CZK 275 000 is already on each Čech. The government, which declared itself a clean government in its creation, the government of the fight against corruption, failed to deal with major corruption cases, including the most widely known Dosimeter, which one of its actors, the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan, euphemistically called a municipal problem. The government of Petr Fiala has placed the prime minister of the Ministry of the Environment as a nominally first deputy, but with the powers of the Minister of Human Rights, President Petr Hladík himself associated with the case of the housing business in Brno and the suspect of others, if not illegal and unethical activities in the communal area. There is also critically an initiative to reconstruct the state on the five-calice steps. The initiative, which has criticized the previous government in the past, is now strongly opposed to some of the actions taken by the Puralov government. What more illustrates the inability of the current government and its minister Josef Válek than the unprecedented lack of some important basic medicines in pharmacies throughout the country? Penicillin needed for increasingly frequent anginas, Paralene, paracetamol to reduce temperatures. Ibuprofen, Nurofen, syrup for children for inflammation of the upper and lower respiratory tract. Such a situation, including the so-called underpulp sales after acquaintance, has not been remembered by this country since communism. Not only have these basic drugs been missed on the pharmacies counters and many are still missing, but they are not or were not even known central data on their availability in individual pharmacies. There was also no admission of responsibility for the whole situation by the Minister of Health. [[20.40 hours]] Finally, my fellow Members, one example of practical life demonstrating the effectiveness of government measures and their impact on the financial health of our country. Last year, Petr Fiala's government pushed for the cancellation of the EET introduced in 2016. The measure, which was set up to reconcile competitive market relations, to prevent the growth of the grey economy and to increase revenue to the state budget, was fully operational. Entrepreneurs technically managed it, introduced payment terminals and enabled it to pay by card even where it was not possible before. And even mentally, most of them eventually accepted it. The abolition of the EET at a time when our country has already faced the challenge of Russia's aggression and its economic impact has thus become a purely political gesture and, for the state, the worst approach of all possible. Reasoned by the need to keep the coalition's pre-election promises, this legislative act merely proved that this is an electoral bribe for dishonest entrepreneurs who have built their existence on the grey economy, regardless of the interests of most citizens and the healthy economy of this state. Celebrating Trails on the abolition of the EETs talked about how entrepreneurs, especially in hospitality and accommodation services, freed up the terrible pressure that Andrej Babiš put them into, and how this cancellation of the EET will help them in their business. And what's the reality? Last week, a friend of mine visited a coffee shop where he usually had coffee with something sweet. When he wanted to pay as in previous years with a card, he received a notice from the operator that the payment terminal was inoperable and can only be paid in cash. So he paid cash and asked when the terminal would work again. He got the answer, including a smile. I think the terminal's gonna be out of order now that the EET's been shut down. The question of whether income will ever be taxed on these expenses and VAT paid on them is one thing. The second is that, at the same time as the cancellation of the EET, they also receive cashless credit card payments, which brings us back tens of years. Business pirates from the '90s, welcome back! Ladies and gentlemen, these are all the reasons why, together with many of my colleagues and colleagues, I will today express my distrust to the government of Petr Fiala. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u350	That was Mr. Stržínek. Now I'm going to load two apologies. Otherwise, have a nice evening, we took turns in meeting management. Mrs. Berkovcová is excused. Jana from 14:00 to 21:00 for health reasons and Mr Metnar Lubomír from 20:45 to 23:00 for work reasons. Next up, Mr. Lang. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u351	Good evening. Colleagues, colleagues, Mr President, the only Minister I see here, coincidentally also from the Pilsen Region, such as myself, so I guess we are some strong individuals. We have 20.43 hours, second day of distrust hearing for this government. This is the second time in this parliamentary term in the thirteen months of this government, when we meet here in an absolutely extraordinary meeting. It's not that usual, but unfortunately, this government is taking steps that... we have nothing left but to approach this quite exceptional institute. And I, like my colleagues here, will mention why I will not vote in favour of this government, why I will also stand up and hope secretly that some coalition MPs will see and maybe express distrust of this five-calice government. When I was thinking about how I should structure this speech, I was a little concerned about it because I'm moving in the area of security, I'm a security committee member, I've been moving in the area of security all my life, and I'm interested in these things, I'm concerned about security, and I want us to honor security in our country, to live here well. We are one of the most secure countries in the world, and I would like it to stay that way. Mrs. Chairman of our club, Mrs. Schillerová, then led me to the structure of what I'm going to say about my performance here. She named the 13 sins of Prime Minister Fiala here yesterday. I called my performance the ten sins of the Minister of the Interior, President of STAN, Mr. Rakušan. It is, in essence, nine sins of Mr. Rakušan and one sin of Mr. Jurečka, which I will also name among those sins. My colleagues from the Security Committee and other previous speakers from our opposition club YES, movement YES 2011, have talked about many things here. The fact that it's been going on for this long and basically a lot of things have been said here, I just want to add some things here, so some of these sins are going to be a little bit shorter, some of those sins are going to be a little bit longer. The beginning of this five-calice government was so interesting in terms of security, when at a time when Mr. Fiala did not even know if he was really going to be appointed, if he was going to be Prime Minister and if the various ministers from the President were going to be appointed, Mr. Vít Rakušan, who worked in the Security Committee during the previous parliamentary term - I was not a member of this House honored in the previous parliamentary term, but my colleagues worked with him in the Security Committee - so he was preparing for the position of Home Secretary. He prepared for her, declared that if his PirSTAN group succeeded, he would have the ambition to become Minister of the Interior. I suppose, then, that when someone prepares for such a position, for such a function, they feel up to it, at a heavy resort from my point of view, they actually kind of know what they're getting into. I'm not quite sure if that's the case, but the first steps that had already occurred at the moment when he was only a nominee were already so strange. And there was this first aftertaste, and we were like, ha, there's probably something wrong here. Whoever saw the movie The Godfather, who has three parts, is there in one of the works of the young godfather, who is still beginning to work there, so there are different people, traders with various suggestions, suggestions and wishes. And he always gets to kiss his ring and says yes, I'll tell you, I'll help you, and then maybe I'll want something back sometime. In this way it seems to me that the nominee for the Interior Minister, Mr. Rakušan, had a number of meetings, those meetings are given some secrets to this day, one of them took place with the then police President Mr. Švejdar, who was a respected expert in police circles, had almost 30 years of service, and he basically immediately gave some media statement to the Minister after this appointment, so very brief that he would end up with the police and leave to serve, and he did not comment more. I understand his concern, because it might cost him some possible steps, he was still in the service, and so on. So it was kind of the first step. Then there were a number of other meetings where Mr. Rakušan met probably, or they say, with the head of the Post Office. There was also something, some solution, then he met with some other representatives, and this is how meetings were held here without being a minister. Then he became Minister, got all those powers, no one disputes it, and, of course, Mr. Švejdar was leaving or left, resigned. The sacred right of every new Home Secretary is to choose his closest leadership. He chose a professional from my point of view, a longer-serving police officer, and I personally know the current police president from the time of my practice, and I recognize him as an expert, and so there has been an exchange of the police president. With the old police president, some of his leadership left, the economic deputy left, which means there's been some changes. The new management was introduced to us on the Security Committee. Some visions were presented. I guess it's okay here, they just introduced some fantasies and stuff. The fact that... and I would like to say right here that in the previous term, the coalition government of the ČSSD, the movement YES - yes, the prime minister was Mr Babiš, but the interior resort was managed by the ČSSD, which means Mr Hamáček. We sometimes see certain things being reproached here, that somehow it is not consistent and so on, but we did not have, as an YES movement except for one short period when Mr Metnar, a colleague of Metnar, through Mr President, was the Minister of the Interior for a short period and then moved to defense. [[20.50 hours]] So it is not possible to link the ANO movement apart from the general responsibility of the Prime Minister with the Ministry of the Interior. Why do I say that? I am saying this because I will mention in a moment the Lex of Ukraine, the migration crisis, just the whole issue. It just can't be done, it can't be done, certain things that went to Mr. Hamáček and the Czech Social Democratic Party, so they don't go to the YES movement, even though sometimes it's being thrown to us. When I look at the first one, this weird situation at the Ministry of the Interior, and it's already been mentioned here several times, it's the so-called krit. Now a foreign word is used, a narrative, or simply an expression of an opinion, just a term. The KRIT is a crisis intervention team, my colleagues mentioned it too. I just want to tell you that I don't want to talk to the KRIT anymore, because a lot of things have been said here, and when I've been preparing my performances tonight, I'm just gonna show you the performances here. They are workers, where they were mentioned directly, so the manager is Mr Hanousek - mentioned here by my honourable colleague Mašek - who says the founder of KRIT Petr Hanousek says: "It is a team, it is a department of strategic communication of the resort and is part of the planned strategic communication of the state as a whole. We have four basic credentials." Now, these credentials are listed here, let's say, but I'm interested in the sentence that needs to be listened to. "KRIT, or Crisis Intervention Team, is part of a whole that is managed by the Office of the Government, where other specific departments are created on individual ministries, and we are also part of this whole." This means that when we asked about the Security Committee - I did not happen to be on the Security Committee that discussed it, Mr Hanousek was present because I was ill, so I was excused, but of course I read some information and some entry from it - so even before the KRIT was introduced, it was said by Minister Rakušan that it was some department that had four civil servants belonging to the Cabinet of the Minister and they were simply preparing some documents for him. And, of course, we're going to be deeply concerned with this issue, because the really hard evidence that comes out of the KRIT is very strange. I'd just like to show you how fertile KRIT is with the Home Office. They publish, they just have this inscription called "prepared by the Ministry of the Interior's Crisis Intervention Team," they have this nice eagle that's in some kind of circle, and here you see one material: an increase in illegal migration. Other material: Radicalisation of the antisystem demonstration company. Putin and hunger - I was quite interested in that, Putin and hunger. War, energy crisis, increase in illegal migration, radicalisation of civil and public administration workers. - There's a guy who's got his head in his hands, probably how he's subject to some kind of narrative and radicalized. I'd quote a part of it out of this one material right here. This is very interesting: "In the Czech Republic there is a political sharp conflict," it is happening, i.e. in the House certainly, but I do not know whether it should take place on the authorities of the state administration, at ministries, or on some other, for example in the Police Prezidium, I do not believe it," whether the energy crisis will be interpreted as a failure of the state or as a result of, for example, the Russian energy war, which aims to decompose the Czech society. People are extremely exposed and afraid of their future. The findings of KRIT at local level from civil society organisations also suggest increasing frustration, a tendency to antisystem operators and the radicalisation of civil and public administration workers.' [[unintelligible]] There. Then there's another material - the risk of damage to the Zaporozhi nuclear power plant. So I'm gonna be some older person who can communicate with the Internet, open up these communication recommendations, so I'm just gonna be threatened by another Černobyl here. Yeah, I'm gonna grow a quarter of a mile in the summer, but I'd just be afraid of this situation. So I don't know if anyone's haunted. The risk of using tactical nuclear weapons, tactical nuclear weapons by the Russian Federation. So, once again, creating fear, creating or possibly ending an emergency state. And then I'd end up with KRIT's statement, please. So we have four specialists under the Home Secretary in his cabinet who are preparing some recommendations for him who are actually fertile. And what the Home Office says about it, which is very important: "I propose a few basic measures. " That means there's gonna be some other departments on the other ministries, they're probably spies from the central KRIT who'll be leaking information. "In the first place it is necessary to collect anonymous mood data between state and public administration employees." That's fantastic. I imagine, when I was working at the Home Office, too, on that big whole republic unit, I just came to work, I was in some kind of mood, so there's gonna be some guy who's gonna be looking into my mood, okay? And he'll probably be writing down some information on Colonel Lang's mood. Well, that's really cool. "Anonymized mood monitoring in state and public administration. It is necessary to identify persons who can spread antisystemic moods and their involvement in dialogue," or simply drag them into this dialogue, "and must be actively and empathically collected critical stimuli." Those are amazing sentences. Then I would like the Minister to comment on it, or Mr Hanousek to comment on it, because it's the first sin, that's krit. We are often called, as opposition parties, that we are populists, the other opposition party is even called, that it is an extremist party, and according to mood probably then someone will evaluate us in some way. Thirty-three years after the revolution we tapped the keys for. Some of us, I didn't, I was a military soldier, so I couldn't tinkle anywhere, but we just had some opinion about it, so after thirty-three years, they're gonna be formed here at the Ministry of the Interior, at the Force Resort, some department that's gonna watch the mood and give the right narratives to public officials or the state administration. So it's delicious, so it's krit. Sin number two, action Dosimeter. I beg you, for the Dosimeter event, a huge scandal, a huge scandal that shook Prague here, bringing in a certain group of entrepreneurs, the transport business of the capital city of Prague, the famous businessman Slepičák, the best man who actually led it - Michal Redl, yes, an unworthy person who was deprived of her rightfulness, must live under the supervision of a skilled nurse, and to her all went to various meetings and so on. And so on and so forth. We naively believed that when this scandal erupted, the Minister of the Interior would accept Rakušan, Chairman of the STAN movement, as head of the starosta and independent, some moral political responsibility for what was happening under his wing, even though he, I must say here in his defense, was never fully connected to it, never even accused, never even accused, simply there is no shadow of suspicion against him in this matter. But underneath it, just below it, these things just happened. It's just that Mr. Interior Minister, Rakušan, kept it quiet. Of course, the Dosimeter case is still running, some of these people have already been released from custody, there are some cooperative accusations, but it's just not okay from our point of view. It simply sheds bad light on the Ministry of the Interior's department to be run by a man who has the political responsibility for the STAN movement. The STAN movement, actually the leadership of STAN, virtually no one survived there except the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies. Mr. Gazdík had to resign subsequently as Minister of Education, which of course was unsustainable, because at first he didn't know who Mr. Redl was, then suddenly he found out that he knew Mr. Redl, then suddenly he found out that he was skiing with Mr. Redl somewhere, in a lobby in a hotel in the Alps, they just met, and what was interesting to me, like, a security guy, so then, when he was sneaking around and defending the indefensible, he actually said that he had a phone on Mr. Redl, he had a phone number on him, and he had it in an encrypted phone. I'm shocked. If I were Prime Minister, if I were Secretary of Defense, if I were Home Secretary, I'd have an encrypted phone. Mr. Gazdík also had an encrypted phone. To this day, he hasn't actually explained who was paying him for the cryptoprotection of that encrypted phone that's being renewed every year. [[21.00 hours]] There was such a reason in the public sector that he had it somewhere between his socks and one time his phone rang. He was just passing by, and look, it was Mr. Redl. And he didn't have the number anywhere else, it was only on that encrypted phone. It's just a justification for the Minister of Education, just amazing. So there's just this aftertaste that somebody here has an encrypted phone. And the ideal thing is that the Home Secretary, Rakušan, recommended to his fellow party at the time that he took the encrypted phone and trampled it down, so just the evidence that was being checked by Mr. Gazdík, so the Home Secretary recommends to his fellow party instead of handing over the encrypted phone to the law enforcement authorities that might have entered into it and figuring out how it was, who was on the phone there, what they were talking about as a wise person, so he simply recommended that he break the encrypted phone. So this is the dozimetr case, which just left a real lead, quite strong from my point of view, on the mayor movement and independent, on the interior minister, on the vice-chairman of this five-calice government. This is also one of the reasons why I simply cannot vote for this government. When I move on, the third sin, if you can say it for sin, is the kind of thing that's practical. So we have the Home Secretary, the Home Secretary runs the police, set up a police president, set up a concept. And it's an evaluation of crime in 2022. Once again, colleagues have spoken about this. Total crime increased by 19 percent, about 18,8%. When we asked the Security Committee about this, the police president argued that the previous period was a covid period. That means, from some base when we're getting sick of this crime, there's this indirect pattern, so you could understand it in some way. But when I looked at it in detail, maybe this material contains some kind of sad numbers for me, and my colleague Mašek has already mentioned that we have increased the number of murders, for example. That means it's not very safe in our country under the leadership of the Minister of the Interior, Rakušan. A total of 150 murders were committed last year. Perfect murder crimes, that's probably the worst crime that could be, killing a person, and it's 45 more murders than the previous period. When we look at the total number of registered crimes in the Czech Republic, in 2022 police register 181 991 crimes. I divide it by 36, I get 500 felonies a day, I divide it by hours, and I get 21 felonies an hour. Yes, so 21 crimes were committed in the Czech Republic every hour last year. And that's where this material says that since October 2020, the legislators, that is to say, the previous colleagues, or some of you have been here, have increased the limit of harm and the benefit of crime, when crimes have simply been from CZK 5,000 above. There has been a change, so up to CZK 10,000 it is only offences, from CZK 10,000 above it is crimes. If we were to include these violations, which just don't fall into that category, we're going to find out year-on-year that we have not an increase in crime of 18,8%, but maybe 25 percent. So here I am again referring to what my colleague Mašek, Vice-Chairman of the Security Committee, has already said, so it is simply not safe in the Czech Republic, we are increasing our share, the number of crimes. You know, I'm not saying at all that both the citizens of the Czech Republic and, of course, foreigners are involved in this crime, so that someone here doesn't throw us a story, that we have half a million refugees from Ukraine, a country torn by war, and that we simply want to blame it on them. I can still get there at about point 6, in sin 6, there is actually a share of Ukrajinec crime, but in general we are in danger. We have areas, we have no-go zones, we simply lack police officers in the service. It is not safe, it is becoming dangerous in the Czech Republic, unfortunately, even though the police are trying. And if you don't have those people, of course there's nothing you can do about it. If you get a two-man patrol on Pilsen-north once a night, of course, the robber will wait for the patrol to pass, and he'll rip out the grocery store on the other side, and there's only one cop, isn't there? Of course, we've got enough cops, we've got cops guarding us for 14 days on Letná from that side of the road, there were two fit, strong, two-foot cops in the vehicle. And if our security officer here was telling us where I got this, please, I live in Holešovice and I drive a 12-year-old. I'm a people's man, I drive a 12-way to work, I drive across Letna, and since October 28th, when after 6:00 a.m., I drove here to House Street in the dark, so that's where I saw the cops. Once they were there in Octavia, once they were there in a minibus and so on. When I allowed myself to ask the Security Committee why the cops were standing there, they were still standing there on the grass, so they were doing their own misdemeanor, they were drowning in a buffet, they were just sleeping there, like, two patriots always, so I was told by the First Deputy Police President that they were people from the Duckhouse Protection Service, the Ministry of the Interior. Which is really good, so he can tell someone who hasn't been inside for 30 years. I just wasn't satisfied with this, because if it was the police from the Department of Interior Security or the Letná object, then they were probably missing somewhere else, weren't they? So there was some kind of security hole at the garage entrance or the doorway. The cops were just missing out there somewhere. They were missing somewhere else, otherwise they couldn't be there. The fact that they were watching on the reverse side of the Ministry of Interior, the performance, just the thing that coalition colleagues are proud of, and I'm ashamed of it, because it clearly occurred from my point of view to defamation of the state symbol of the Czech Republic, which is a state flag, and the criminal report was postponed with justification that it is on the reverse side of the state building, so I'm not a lawyer, and it might be interesting to do some legal analysis. That means if I commit something with a state flag, put it on the front of a state building, then I'm just being prosecuted, if I do it on the reverse, that's fine. The fact that it's actually in that park, and it's more obvious than on the cheek side, that's kind of weird, too. Maybe I'll skip it, that's one of those sins. I have the sin of this state flag, the Ukrainian flag, and the bag with the Eskymák, I'm not gonna call it the Russian President, because it's really undignified. I have that sin where I still have those red underwear hanging out at the castle from the Ztohoven group, I'll get to that. But it's just not okay, even this isn't okay. Here, the Home Secretary will take advice from some performer group of savage activists who are called Decomunization a.s. or cz, yes, and he says they came up with it, but I've got it written right here in the material that they're asking the group. And they say, Mr. Interior Minister Rakušan came up with the idea. He also didn't exactly inform us, it didn't sound like that, because we asked whose idea it was, why it was there at all, what it was, what it was supposed to mean, so we understood that it was meant for those protestors, for our citizens, for our fellow citizens, probably our voters, if the 2,000,000 voters who voted for the YES movement, who would have come to the demonstration, which then didn't, because we have expensive energy, they're insecure and so on, so just the narrative was there, that it was for these people. And they were supposed to look at the back of the Home Office, they were supposed to be ashamed. They were supposed to be ashamed, probably break their fluffy, go home and be happy and happy. I don't know how else to describe it. So just this association Dekomunizace.cz He put it together with the Minister, the State paid for it, 70,000 crowns cost one installation. As my honored colleague Mašek said, through the President, there were three things, one they could put up, two they didn't have time, one should still be ashamed of people, on Václavák and one was to be ashamed of people in Old Man. It's too late. So two cops wouldn't be standing there 24 hours times 14 days, but it would be 6 cops times 24 times 14 days in three places. So it didn't make it, it took off after 14 days, it can't even be used anymore. It was just said somehow that it was made of so much material that once you tear it up, you just can't sell it out anymore. Maybe the standard that Ztohoven stole from the castle, so they cut it up and sold it to their friends, so it's impossible here, so there's no cost refund. But I'm interested in who's gonna pay the costs, just the idea of the Minister of the Interior Rakušan, a man of mature age, is, I don't know, 45 years old, so if some 20-year-old savage activist came up with it, I'd understand it, but not the Minister of the Interior of the Czech Republic. I'd really like to call on him to prove how much it cost. We're in a difficult economic situation, we're deep in our pocket, here we've been mentioned by our colleagues, how much one motoden here is an honored Chamber of Deputies, about 3 million, we've got 210,000 down, we're already at 2,800,000. [[21.10 hours]] The Home Secretary could pay for it, and he could send it for some charity purposes. Single moms, retirees, some hospice, like, why not? I'd like to challenge him to that. 210,000 crowns of taxpayers' money is enough. I think if he had his own firm and decided in some misconception that he was gonna commit this, he wouldn't have done it. It doesn't come from anybody else's blood, and the state's gonna hide it somehow, does it? So that's the sin of the Home Secretary about the state flag, but I'm gonna get to it. That's when I'm at sin number three. And that's the statistics. So from my point of view, the Home Secretary doesn't handle the situation in person again, we just have, we're increasing the number of murders, we're increasing the number of crimes. Something's hiding in our misdemeanors, it's just a beautiful way to move the statistics so we can make it work. So another sin is - we are now getting to the situation associated with the migration crisis and the war in Ukraine. I called it migration, Ukraine, smugglers, the criminal activity of Ukrainian nationals. When the war broke out, when the Russian Federation attacked the sovereign state of Ukraine, and we were always... We've condemned it, from the very beginning, we've approved all of your measures here as a five-wheeler, just as they were coming. Because we too have made it clear that this is not a normal situation for one state to attack another state. It's just a tragedy for both countries. The goal should be to put an end to this war conflict by some ceasefire so that people don't die on either side of the front, because I'm just gonna slap you, you're gonna give it back to me, and it just doesn't have a ratio anymore, and things like this shouldn't happen in Europe in the 21st century. And all the actors who have something to say about it should mean some world leaders, as our President also says, whether it be Mr Macron, whether it be the German chancellor, whether it be the US President, whether it be other leaders of powerful powers, should force both sides to sit at a negotiating table, and when it should only be a truce, and then simply say things back between two states. It would still be better than the conflict of war going on here. When the first migrants started coming here - and that's why I said here about 20 minutes ago that you couldn't connect us as an YES movement to the things that somehow remained at the Ministry of the Interior after Mr. Hamáček. Among other things, there was a migration plan, called a large-scale migration plan, which no one ever expected more than 20,000 migrants, refugees, to come here over a period of time, not even a month, not even a week, was expected to just appear here in a quarter of a year. And here we were saying, even to the Minister, we were right that he just got into a situation that if we were in a position and we had an interior minister, it would also be a difficult situation. The first charge when the Ukrajinec just opened their borders and these people started running wildly because no one knew how it was going to be, how the conflict was going to escalate, so those people started coming. By having some 260,000 Ukrajinec here before the war, who worked here in different ways, they have their diaspora here, so logically they're coming to us. They go where they just have some relatives. Slave goes to Slovan, he deals with it and so on. So a huge wave of people came. Somehow, that's something that's been responded to. The Lex Ukraine 1 came, as we called it, just very quickly, it sewed like a hot needle - but I understand it was a hot needle, it was the first strain after the beginning of the war. But at the beginning, in March, we said, Minister, and responsible for the situation, begin with caution. It's not just the moms that are coming, the way we keep hearing. When someone tried to push us somewhere, someone from the coalition stepped up and said, "You're going up against mommies and kids and old people and grandmothers and stuff." Yeah, well, that's a good saying, and then how are you supposed to defend yourself against it? We have said, for example, that there will also be people coming who may have some criminally faulty past. Like Ukrajinec and Ukrajinec and, of course, those people came too. And now interesting things are gradually coming out. I just have some stuff here called překvapivý Numbers. It is a material that I have downloaded from the Ministry of the Interior and from publicly available sources, where it is said: the migration crisis. Police of the Czech Republic secured 22,000 illegal migrants in 2022. Most of them, it concerns smugglers, they were smugglers, they were citizens of the Czech Republic and Ukraine. And now here's the sentence: Last year, according to foreign police figures, the smuggling was surprising - not for me - especially the citizens of Ukraine, who otherwise have free movement due to the war in Ukraine for the European Union. Police have intercepted a total of 250 smugglers from different countries according to preliminary data. However, the Ukrajinec mainly dominate, followed by Syřan, Gruzínec, but also Čech. So what I'd like to say is that what we mentioned here, and that's when we first met with the Home Secretary, who -- I remember that sentence. I won't forget her for the rest of my life. He said to me, "Mr. Ambassador, I don't know you. Logically, he couldn't have known me the first time I was here. He said, "I have to breathe you out, I've never seen you before, you put on here that there will also be criminally racing persons." - I said yes, because unfortunately from my practice I met Ukrainian nationals who were then in the 1990s and more rabbi than, for example, the Russian Federation, and the Ukrainian mob is just like a pretty rough one. So, logically, we assumed that always on this tragedy, whether it's migration, because migration from the point of view of money is more profitable business than prostitution and drugs, which may not be known in general, but it is so, so why wouldn't they catch on to it, the possibility? When it was specifically offered here. So, as far as Lex Ukraine is concerned, we supported Ukraine 1 as an YES movement, and we supported Ukraine 2 as an YES movement, and we already had some reservations about it and about the Security Committee, where we are 16 or 17, sorry 15, so we just always made some comments. The coalition colleagues nodded their heads, and either they let us into a resolution of one that was neither poppy nor such, or when it was a resolution when we proposed something and it didn't specifically convene them, they overruled us. So we approved the Lex Ukraine 3 as well. For lex Ukraine 4, we've all been delayed, because we said we already had some really big reservations. Our shadow secretary, Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová, Vice-President of the Security Committee, Mr Mašek, through Mr President, so we made a proposal, we said just make it more precise, it is not that simple. We don't have an overview, we don't know where these people are. It just costs the state budget quite a lot of money. These people made an electronic identification here, and then a lot of them went back to Ukraine. By actually obtaining the status of a long-term foreigner within the Lex Ukraine, they could actually travel freely throughout Europe. There were no single European systems. That means those people could have asked for their benefits in the Czech Republic, for the humanitarian dose of 5,000, and in duplicate in other states. The minister said it was only a pardon, but it was also a pardon here. So at lex Ukraine 4, we have already abstained as an YES movement precisely because some of our proposals have not been taken into account. And I just found material where it is spoken, he says it again Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Jurečka, that in fact Czech state budget Ukrainian friends, who have almost half a million of them, cost us 8.7 billion crowns. And on the other hand, we got the material that is within the upcoming Lex Ukraine 5, when I think that Mr Strava's advisor, if I say so myself, the MPSV advisor, who, on 10 January 2023, sent the coalition Members material that was working and which was just preparing the Lex Ukraine 5, and accidentally sent it to all the Members, that is, to us. So we learned in advance what coalition MPs are actually preparing for Lex Ukraine 5. And there's interesting - I'm not going to read it, because we all got the material, there'll be enough time to talk about Lex Ukraine 5 here, but there's an introductory point. "The proposal is in a state of rapid preparation." So we are in lex Ukraine 5, we are 11 months, or 10 months after we have just here lex Ukraine 1, 2, 3, 4, and the processor for the KDU-ČSL parliamentary club in the first sentence for Members says: "The proposal is in a state of rapid adjustment. Some parameters may change and others are not yet clear at all." [[21.20 hours]] This means, now that I think that when we got the Lex Ukraine on the Security Committee, for example, 2, 3, 4 it was done in such a way that the Security Committee chairman called us together before the Chamber of Deputies meeting, my colleagues will surely be right when we got there and said to the committee chair: We have three hours to approve this to put it into the system. And we've seen it for the first time. And it's really hard for me, too, who spends his whole life dealing with foreign issues, it's been hard to study, even understand certain terms and the like. And now we have material that contains, I don't know, 40, 45 paragraphs with an impact on the Czech Republic's budget of 8.7 billion a year, and we had three hours with colleagues. And we've been pushed, raise your hand for it, or don't vote for it, we're just gonna vote for it anyway. And it's already falling into the context of this report. There's some very interesting stuff in there. I don't want to delay it, I don't want to cause any passion for the people who come from the country that was attacked, it's a huge tragedy, and I think I've made it clear here, and I think it's the position of our movement as a whole, how we should probably proceed. As a small country, of course, even if we had a Presidency in the European Union, we have done many things, perhaps we have not done much to stop fighting. [[Maybe.]] I think it's more from the expression of some ministers that we're just harrassing weapons so far, and it's not a complete solution. So I'm more of a pacifist, and I don't think I want people dying anywhere. And that would probably put an end to this Lex Ukraine. It's not an easy situation. What are we going to do with these refugees, if the conflict is over, and those people are going back to Ukraine, probably, but it's almost half a million people here. I said it's 2.5 percent, it's 5 percent of our population today. Mothers, children, not all these people will want to come back, and we have today approved under the Lex Ukraine 4 that they have visas until spring 2024. Then we will have to use the Asylum Department, immigration policy to treat them as foreigners, any other foreigners, and we have to put them in some kind of long-term-residence foreigner fashion, because they can move from a long-term residence to a permanent residence, from a permanent residence they can apply for Czech citizenship. We have to say politically here if we want to include these people in order to become our fellow citizens. It's 5 percent of the population. Again, logically, the grandmothers, the ones who would live in the villages, probably didn't flee, came here mostly intelligent people, educated people, and, of course, they will miss Ukraine in its restoration. And we can't say 200 or 300,000 people here if we want to help them. They're gonna miss these people in Ukraine. Then we are like the United States, which offers green cards and says the best minds from all over the world every year, and then in developing countries they can never get up because the best people go to developed and rich countries. And, of course, those Ukrajinec who opened the same window as they did after Yugoslavia broke up when the war was in the 1990s, which I had experienced actively, there were a lot of people who just used the window and got into that Western Europe. Otherwise, the Ukrainian as a person outside the European Union... is illusory that they would have made it to the European Union in the foreseeable future. There's just deep access negotiations, it's gonna take decades. And that's how they get here in a simple way. And he's gonna make his mark. Because we're really rich to them, like a country that just has access to them, they're Slovan, they're set up here, they're integrated into society. Even in the village where I live, we have several Ukrainian families who have been here for years, and they live with us in the countryside. I would continue with the next sin of the Home Secretary, and it is sin number five. Sorry, sin number 5 is not the sin of STAN, but it is the sin of KDU-ČSL. You said you'd do a better policy, otherwise, the voters just believed you, just overwhelmingly by less than 1% you beat the YES movement in the House elections. I mean, every time I compare it to a fight in the ring, I've got one big two-meter boxer who's in one corner of the ring, and on the other hand, there's this three-quarter boxer, and then there's three midgets or four dwarfs, and now this strong boxer gets on top of him, and the three dwarfs jump on top of him, and now he's soaping him, washing him, washing him, and he's getting tired, he shakes them off, but the three-quarter boxer gets on top of him, and he gives him one rock, and he's lying down. That's exactly how we ended up. We just won the election because as a confident movement, we don't need to connect with someone to smash our powers. We don't need to make a five-calice across the spectrum so you can rule with a hundred and eight. I don't understand how an ODS can be with a KDU-ČSL in one of the five groups. How can there be pirát with their opinions with KDU-ČSL? It's like you're carrying water and you're just pouring it on fire or you're pouring gasoline into a fire. It just doesn't add up. But I understand that it gave some kind of logic. You've teamed up, you've won famously, and now you're just wrestling us around, and then you're wondering, you're the rest of the co-workers who sleep here, and the others aren't that we're just trying in some way - because our constituents are texting us. Our voters write to us and say: a strong self-confident movement with the strongest parliamentary club in the Chamber of Deputies, why aren't you raising the Battalion of the ANO movement and the ideas of the YES movement, why are you retreating? And we said yes, we were kind, our club president, Mrs. Schillerová, was, she tried to be helpful. And she tried to be helpful as far as possible, and when it just didn't work out, we decided to call on this mistrust hearing to the government. Sin number 7 (6). With Mr. Hladík, I don't want it anymore, because I've interpelled it and my colleagues have talked about it before me. It's just these coincidences that somebody accidentally opens an ad, buys a house, happens to be making some kind of road that costs some amount of money. Then it's going to increase by 100 percent. It's just a set of coincidences that these people... I am not saying that Mr Hladík, of course Mr Hladík is a witness today, Mr Hladík was in his time as a suspect in the beginning, which he did not exactly tell the media. Then he turned back into a witness, but that's still saving up, that thing, that means, Mr. Deputy at the Ministry of the Environment today, when it was a hug, because the president said that this thing was going to be saved for months, and he simply refused to appoint Mr. Hladík as the nominator of the KDU-ČSL as the Minister of the Environment, so it just came around. He's turned into a deputy who, in essence, is running the department there, and he's waiting to see how the presidential election is likely to turn out, and if the new president, if the new president of the Czech Republic, is more forthcoming. And here again, both candidates have declared that if the Prime Minister proposes it, they will name it, and it is a matter for the Prime Minister to put in the candidate. So I think our chairman of the movement, too, would have named Mr. Hladík if he had become president. But it's such an aftertaste. People write to us, tell us - how it is possible that just this person, on whom this shadow of suspicion clings, has actually become a deputy at the Ministry of the Environment. The next thing he wants to talk about is sin number 7 and that's the Home Secretary's personnel policy. Last year, 2,500 police officers went to our civil service. They're people when the first retirement grade between 15 years, when it's just starting to get a little bit more attractive about leaving, and the cops, if I have good stats, 2,500, 25 or more have gone. That's a cop in the best guard who can be the boss of the job, and those people are leaving. Although the Home Office was trying to make some recruitment contributions, and the police president even declared that he had allocated police resources for it, the police didn't believe us. They don't believe, they don't trust the current administration of the Ministry of the Interior Department, they don't actually trust Minister Rakušan that he won't go into the service law, even though he promised us this, but we've already seen the work materials where we're talking about the first retirement degree moving forward in the time of the exit, and those people are just, when they count it, they're full of strength. They take them to the city police, they take them anywhere else, they take money from the state, and the state loses professionals. My colleague Mašek mentioned here, through Mr President, that we hired 1,900 police officers. That cop, before he's capable of serving at all, to know where the left, right hand is, it's been five years after school police. It's just a huge slump. And it's a big, big danger. And it shows that we're actually getting sick of the crime because the cops are leaving. We've had undersized states like this, now we've lost 2,500 other cops, and those cops are missing. I'm saying it's a bad personnel policy for the current head of the Ministry of the Interior. As we would do, I will not call you because we are opposition MPs. We will not advise you, but simply, Minister of the Interior, Rakušan, this is wrong. [[21.30 hours]] Sin number 8 - Decomunization Association. It's also a bit affecting the current situation here, where unfortunately, I'm saying, at the hot stage of the second round of the presidential election. I liked it very much here from our colleague, who said that we really didn't know who would advance to the second round, when you're giving us here, you're pushing us here to call for some vote on distrust of the government to support our nominee, Mr. Babiš. Mr. Babiš didn't have to go to the second round either, there could have been someone else, and we just called the meeting for the very reasons that we've all been talking about here the next day. The Decomunization Society met with the second Presidential candidate and there was a situation where a standard from Prague Castle was lost. State symbols of the Czech Republic, to remind you, is a large state emblem, small state emblem, state colors, state flag, flag of the President of the Republic, state seal and national anthem. So the flag of the President of the Republic is a symbol of the Czech Republic and that performent band Ztohoven - no Out of it, but Ztohoven - so she dressed as chimney sweepers, climbed to Prague Castle and stole the national symbol of the Czech Republic. They confessed to it. There were some courts where the district court, the prosecutor proposed punishment, proposed parole, lawyers suggested that it would only go into criminal proceedings. Then the prosecutor disagreed, it went to the second instance, which confirmed the penalty, which means it was confirmed that a crime had been committed. They were fined, and they got parole. Now I've registered in public space that one of the presidential candidates met with these activists and they told him that if the right president is elected to Prague Castle, he'll return the standard. Then it was also said in a debate where, if it was just a misdemeanor or a misdemeanor, it was not an obligation to report, but if the appeal court confirmed for those performers that it was a criminal offence, then here, friends, we are already talking about Section 219 of Penal Code No. 40/2009 Sb, § 219 - concealment of the matter. It has three paragraphs, I will not delay, but in the first paragraph it is said: Whoever, by his own foreign cause, does not have a minor value, which has come into his power by finding, by mistake or otherwise without the permission of the person entitled, will be punished by imprisonment for up to one year or by a ban on activity. That means there's an obligation to report. That is, if anyone knows where the standard of the President of the Republic, which allegedly has not been completely destroyed, is located, then he should go to the police and the police should be saving. So here I am again asking the Home Secretary if it might be worth taking any action in this, or if there are any steps already taken towards the person who said he knew where the standard was. And that brings me to sin number 9 and 10, and here, to keep Mr. Klíma's disinformation agent from the government, we'll keep him to the Security Committee and terrorism, extremism and cybercriminality as a newly created NCOZ unit, where 150 tables have passed, and so far only the Director and Deputy are occupied, so I'll keep it to the Security Committee as well. In conclusion, I would just like to say one thing. I'm sure the current government of all the things I've named here doesn't have my trust. It is the second vote to express distrust for this government in 11 months, which means, from my point of view, it is a disgrace to the existing five-calices, because it really is an extraordinary meeting, an extraordinary vote, when distrust is expressed in fact to the entire government. You made it twice in 11 months. [[Notes from the right side of the hall.]] We didn't, you made it because you're in power. [[Laughter from the right.]] You can laugh all you want, it's just your shame, not our shame. And I would like to, because Mr. Fiala, as Prime Minister of the Government, is constantly sending signals to public space and he's always saying this way, and inflation is rising, and I'm going to save you all, so I'm going to, and I'm going to work with it, and I'm going to send a signal to this government - and now it's going to be a little bit for a colleague who's recording it here. [[gesticulates]] I've noticed here before that somebody was singing here, so I think the speech I'm gonna send out that clear signal, I'm gonna send it out in Morse code, and I think the Prime Minister will definitely pick it up at the Office of the Government. [[Fun.]] And if he really understands that it's wrong, what's going on here, maybe he'll resign himself, and that doesn't actually mean we need to be here and it'll be settled. So for the tape: [[Laughter]] [[To the stenographer. - Yes.]] .-/-/./ I'm getting closer to half. [[Laughter.]] {\cHFFFFFF}{\cHFFFFFF}{\cHFFFFFF}{\cHFFFFFF}{\cHFFFFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FF00} Now it's Mr. Fiala's spell. Mr. Fiala is now a request. Please don't jump in, or I won't send the signal! [[Laughs in the hall and comments.]] [[Thunderous laughter and applause.]] I was in the military with the comrades, and there, when the signal broke, it threatened as if criminal liability to the second tank division of Klement Gottwald in Slané. [[Laughter.]] So now I'm lost, and for the tape screen, I think I'm done with the /---------/. I'm coming to a conclusion. Are you prosecuting? Now he's next. [[To the stenographer. - She's nodding. Continuous laughter in the hall.]] Are you prosecuting, colleague? [[He's turning to the stenographer again. - Yes.]] Okay. Last three words. And now the appeal is to the Prime Minister. I hope that at the Office of the Government, the signals are set here at the Chamber of Deputies: /------- and finally, friends, /../../..--/ for the right spectrum /..-----/ and finally, friends, /..." And I hope that this message is recorded at the Office of the Government, and it is my final statement in this speech: The Government of the Five-Calice and Prime Minister Fiala, please stand back for the good of the Czech Republic! Thank you. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u352	Thank you for ending the show. I would just like to ask that, even at this hour, we try to maintain the dignity of this House. Three exclamation points, Mr. Ambassador! [[Let's hear it from the right.]] Next up, Mr Brož.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u353	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, in my speech, why I cannot support this government, I have focused on the field of culture. But I will calm you down that I will be very brief, because my colleagues and I have already responded a lot in the field of culture in the performance of Minister Baxa. Unfortunately, he hasn't distracted our fears. [[21.40 hours]] I'd just like to sum up some of the most important things. To begin with, I will read the programme statement from January 2022, where the government states: Our goal is to strengthen the place of culture in the life of Czech society. We want to achieve this not only by strengthening the financing of the entire cultural area, but also by preparing legislative standards that will correspond to the state of culture, monument care and media in the 21st century. - Now we have January 2023 and unfortunately I and other colleagues do not see light at the end of the tunnel in the field of culture. When I focus on the finances, the budget has increased, at least thanks to the Minister for that minimum, but unfortunately, the government is like one man, and the moment that culture doesn't have more support, there's probably nothing we can do about it. Unfortunately, this increase is currently completely inadequate. Remember what we've been talking about all day - rising inflation, energy prices, human labour, material, just everything, everything around it, and it's also about the cultural areas. And we are not only talking about the contribution organizations of the Ministry of Culture, but of course also about operators and institutions from the private sector. It's from the financials where we can't really admit that something's up and there's some light at the end of the tunnel. When we look at the other part, and that is the preparation of legislative standards, it is perhaps even more trivial. So far, three proposals have been tabled, all of which have been the implementation of the European directives, and the only main thing we have seen was the amendment of the Czech Television Act, but only a small, partial one, which is focused - we are talking about it here and we have been debating it for a long and long time - to dominate the election of the director of Czech Television, which should soon take place. So I really don't see anything in this for me that I can say: the government has my trust. And now I'm really focused on the field of culture. Let me just remind you what I said this afternoon. This is not just about money in the budget, it can be a lot of interesting ideas and ideas that we can add nowadays, such as reducing entry to cultural institutions at a time when families don't have it and museums, galleries become fun for the top ten thousand. I don't think we want that. We want our youngsters to remain above all in access to the cultural values and be able to (?) In being, as well as tax signals, we talked about those before the election x-times, everyone before the election nodded to it. There's absolutely nothing going on. So really, really not for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u354	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Before we approach other colleagues and colleagues, I'm gonna load apologies. Mr Dufek apologizes from 21 o'clock without giving any reason, Mrs Jílková Marie apologises from 21 a.m. to 9 a.m. tomorrow morning for family reasons and Mrs Válková Helena from 21.30 a.m. to 23.55 for personal reasons. And now, Mrs Knechtová will perform. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u355	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, fellow ministers, what is the most important problem for me today is that the state should, above all, shape the conditions for the economic competitiveness of the economy as much as possible. In addition, the government has a number of fiscal policy instruments. However, we are witnessing the narrowing of the narrative in the space only to media-known social assistance to citizens in need. Where is meaningful business support, reducing public spending? State policy has narrowed down to social support, and in the present and especially in future difficult conditions, it simply will not be enough in my opinion. In fact, as a program, this government offers us an investigation and a reduction in living standards without grasping active growth-enhancing tools. Next, let's look at the state budget. Last year and this year's planned deficit is not much different from that of covid. The difference is that similar deficits can be assumed for at least three years. When it came with significantly deficit budgets from the previous government, it mainly addressed the possible social impacts of a pandemic, the extent and duration of which no one could estimate at that time, and created a situation for which there was literally no precedent in the previous 100 years. The Finance Minister accidentally forgot to add 150 billion to the state budget on the expense side. Yes, you can hear well, 150 billion. He forgot to count 20 billion on pension valorization, 30 billion on transport investment, and 100 billion on electricity compensation. The sentence "budgetary responsibility is our priority" so it is completely empty. Let us conclude by looking at the opinion of the National Budget Board on the management of this government, and how this government and the Finance Minister have de facto made the state budget a ripping calendar. It is the opinion of December 8, 2022, number 7/22 on the development of the public finance sector and on the setting of fiscal and budgetary policies: November The Chamber of Deputies approved the State Budget Act 2023, which envisages a deficit of CZK 295 billion. However, the overall planned imbalance is higher as the size of the state budget subsidy to the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure does not allow all its planned expenditure to be covered. The management of this fund in 2023 is thus assumed with a deficit of CZK 30.7 billion. The approved budget is also burdened by a high degree of uncertainty. The risk in the direction of a higher deficit is expenditure on exceptional pension valorisation in 2023. - Here we are talking about the 20 billion crowns that are not expected in the current budget. - Given the high amount, it cannot reasonably be assumed that it will be possible to cover it from savings in other state budget items. Another risk on the expenditure side is the compensation resulting from the regulation of energy prices for households and small and medium-sized enterprises. Their specific level will depend on energy prices in 2023, as well as on the specific form of compensation mechanism. On the revenue side, the expected around 100 billion income from the levy of electricity producers and the tax on unexpected profits can only be considered as a qualified estimate. The actual result can be significantly influenced by the economic behaviour of individual tax entities and again by the electricity price in 2023. The National Budget Board understands that the geopolitical situation and the associated energy crisis require some non-standard approaches. However, it is not possible to completely resign from the effort to ensure the reality and truthfulness of the budgetary documentation, especially if the crisis situation lasts for the third year and the budget for the fourth crisis year is being prepared. In addition, the National Budget Board notes that it cannot be preferred to achieve formally more favourable state budget deficits at the cost of the conscious unrealisticness of its content, because this is contrary to the purpose and purpose of the budgetary procedure itself. Ignoring the basic rules and principles of budget formation will lead to a weakening of parliamentary control of public finances in the medium term, as well as the credibility of the Czech Republic on international markets. The return to a sustainable level will also be significantly complicated. Colleagues, colleagues, I know we've been acting the second day, it's 21.48, but try to think about these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u356	Thank you, Madame. Next will be Mrs Maříková, Mr Zlínský will prepare. Madame, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u357	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, unworthy government, because I simply cannot value governments that drive their citizens into poverty and bring their country one step closer to war. It wasn't so long ago that I stood here criticizing your government. And believe me, if the SPD had mattered, I would have stood here earlier, for this distrust was already wanted in December, but the ANO movement said it was not on the agenda of the day. [[21.50 hours]] It is still on the agenda for us, because the government has done nothing to improve the economic situation of this country. Since you have a majority in the Chamber of Deputies and you are hooked together by various news outlets, it is difficult to expect this proposal to pass. But it is worth trying - at least to find out if there is anyone in your ranks who disagrees with how you harm the economic interests of our state and by your policy you literally destroy citizens who, in many cases, are starving to pay for overpriced energy and a roof over their heads. But it is possible that, even in your ranks, someone feels sorry for an old starving person or the starving children of single mothers - believe that these people are constantly increasing in our country - and maybe a conscience moves in it and says enough, I do not want to help a government that brings people to poverty and remembers its promise when it comes to a mandate. The citizens of this country are increasingly sinking into poverty. Many single mothers could not give their children gifts for Christmas. Low-income groups have to deal with whether they eat or pay for energy. Nonprofit organizations report that there are more and more seniors who haven't eaten in days. Many seniors have not had meat for several weeks and only eat Chinese soups. The result is malnutrition, which leads to a deterioration in health. He's saving up for food, and there's a flashlight in the house. Still, pensioners can't pay their bills. While only the units of the elderly who live alone have previously suffered poverty, it is now almost every other. The increase in rents, energy, food, and medicine affects them more than others. As a result, more and more of them are at risk of being in debt and without a roof over their heads. They have several hundred crowns left each month. They don't know what's gonna happen to them. They don't have food, sanitary supplies. What do they do when they need to buy shoes? [[Laughs in the right side of the hall.]] You might find that funny. You want them to go begging? Or should the barefoot walk like the beggars used to? Do you really find that funny, my colleague, through the President? It's hard to guess how many of these people get into the Fialův government's policies. According to an in-depth study of the project Invisible up to 889 000 Čech, almost a million, almost 10 percent of our population, are among the so-called invisible seniors, i.e. those who have difficulty paying their livelihood but who are failing the state aid system. This is the business card of the government of Petr Fiala, the government of ODS, TOP 09, Pirates, Mayors and Independents and KDU-ČSL. You know, these people can't have a coffee and a cake for a hundred. How many times they don't have a hundred crowns left to eat a day. They're people who have worked their whole lives. That's how your fence works against the expensive, which is only marketing PR and doesn't bring any help. This country's prime minister doesn't even know how benefits work in material distress. How, then, can we ask for adequate help? While low-income groups address whether they will end up on the street and the middle class is failing, the Ministry of Industry and Trade will offer about 70 hoodies from the Czech Presidency of the European Union signed by politicians and other famous personalities. The Office wants to use the money collected in this way to buy generators, thermometers and other technologies. And guess where he's gonna send them? To Ukraine! Can you understand that? Our citizens do not have the energy, food, housing, medicines and the Ministry of Industry and Trade to hold auction and proceeds again to help Ukraine, where money falls into a black hole, and no one knows how and by whom it is used or used. That's what we're giving away when banks lend us and the Czech citizen pays for it, like paying for overpriced energy. Let us help people in need but adequately in view of the state's economic situation. Let's take a look at some numbers. The state budget expenditure for aid to refugees from Ukraine reached CZK 15.3 billion by the end of October. Another CZK 3.8 billion is spent by the authorities. The highest cost item was the social benefits paid. On social benefits Czech Republic paid CZK 7.6 billion. Providing health care resulted in public budgets of CZK 3.9 billion. The expenditure related to the accommodation amounted to CZK 2.6 billion at the end of October. Since the February start of the war in Ukraine, the Czech State has granted almost 458 000 refugees temporary visas. Let's definitely help people fleeing the war. But everything has its limits. And let's not act like war hunters and haurs if we don't have the power to help our own people. While the Czech Republic is going through an energy crisis, the Czech Government is focusing on helping Ukraine. The Czech Presidency of the Council of the European Union began on the first July. And what do you think was one of the priorities of the Fialův government? The postwar reconstruction of Ukraine. Even today you could hear the Prime Minister express his reaction to the criticism of the budget and their work - to help Ukraine again. I do not know if he has noticed that most citizens of the Czech Republic do not trust this government. In more than a year, this government has shown us that more than the government of the Czech Republic is a Ukrainian government. The effort to resolve the energy crisis under the command of our government has failed absolutely. Unfortunately, unprofessional management of this country in the field of energy could cost us hundreds of billions of crowns. Already, the state debt is more than CZK 2.895 trillion. As I said at the very beginning, people gave you confidence because they were expecting change. But the expectations didn't come true. Only the Prime Minister's signals came in. Like roadmen every year, snow strikes, so the Fialův government is surprised by the energy crisis, which, among other things, experts have pointed out in the last parliamentary term. Well, it's no wonder the Department of Commerce and Industry runs the banker. First, the government came up with an austerity tariff that turned out to be populist and senseless. This tariff did not encourage savings, and it was often counterproductive. Government measures in the form of a contribution of CZK 3 500 to the levelling of high electricity prices during the energy crisis were absolutely paradoxical. Households that heated electric heaters and had annual consumption of about 15 to 25 megawatts per hour could record an increase in annual costs by up to hundreds of thousands of crowns. But they only received 3,500 crowns. On the contrary, some people with a cottage, i.e. with a D01d distribution rate, pointed out that the contribution effectively covers their annual electricity consumption. Households with heat pumps and high consumption of around 10 megawatts per hour also received only CZK 3,500, even though their costs could have skyrocketed by tens of thousands due to the crisis. In addition, households, which did not use electricity for heating at all and had consumption of about 1 to 2 megawatts per hour per year, also received CZK 3,500. Ceiling energy prices is not a road, it pays the middle class and it only brings damage, said Prime Minister Petr Fiala and called the opposition populists. Well, what's up? The government has put energy prices on the line, but instead of producing them, it has put them on the line with suppliers. The Fialův Government's proposed price ceiling at the level of CZK 6 per kilowatt hour of power electricity is unacceptablely high when until recently a kilowatt hour of power electricity, including VAT, was sold at CZK 2. At the same time, our Republic has a surplus of cheap electricity produced in our country. The triple price is unbearable. With charge for demand point, transfer, distribution, power input and breaker it is 9 CZK per kilowatt hour. The same goes for natural gas. The government's proposed ceiling of 3 crowns per kilowatt hour is more than a four-fold increase, when it cost about 70 cents a kilowatt hour. For those who drown with gas, it's absolutely vanquishing. After just 14 days, the government has proposed a windfall tax, i.e. an excessive profit tax, which the government has quickly enforced as an addition to the VAT Act amendment with a minimum time for comments, will have broad consequences in the form of actions. The government's decision on windfall tax led to a decrease in the value of CEZ's shares by approximately 35 percent, which means a loss of approximately CZK 150 billion for taxpayers due to a lower market capitalization of the company, which the state owns about 70 percent. [[2.00 hours]] Exceptional taxes can lead, some companies have also announced, to the departure of companies to other, more stable countries. I remember very well Petr Fiala's promises to fight to release emission allowances in order to lower the price of electricity and allow coal production for the time needed to overcome the energy crisis. However, under the leadership of the Czech Presidency of the European Commission, a reduction in the number of emission allowances has been agreed, which has triggered a paradox when it promotes the complete opposite of what has been promised. Households will thus indirectly pay emission allowances and will pay more for petrol, diesel and heating by gas or coal. Long live the green hypocrisy that follows our government's pattern of Brussels without using its own brain. Let me give you a little example of how much hypocrisy is involved. The current battery weight of electric cars is usually about 250 to 350 kilos. To make every battery for an electric car, you have to recycle 11,000 kilos of lithium salt, 14,000 kilos of cobalt ore, 2,000 kilos of nickel ore, 11,000 kilos of copper ore, dig up 226,000 kilos of soil, and that's just one battery. Typical electric car battery has 11 kilos of lithium, 27 kilos of nickel, 20 kilos of manganese, 13 kilos of cobalt, 90 kilos of copper, 181 kilos of aluminium, steel and plastic. The first four components come from limited resources and their share will continue to increase. The machine that must extract this will burn 1,000 liters of fuel in 12 hours, moving 250 tons of dirt to extract material to produce one single battery. And people still call it zero emissions when they drive their electric car. No conservation of nature, but absolute hypocrisy, which aims to increase the profits of those who are already so rich that they will not spend their money for the rest of their lives, and to beg those who already have deep pockets. Each battery needs lithium and cobalt. The primary source of cobalt is the Democratic Republic of Congo. We are in Africa and must not, of course, idealize local working conditions. The cobalt often benefits children in inhumane conditions as well. Some time ago, the US government became interested in these mines in trying to combat child labor. For four years in a row, inspectors were not allowed into the mines, for which there is probably a good reason. Kids get a simple canvas bag many times their preschool age, and then, with their bare hands, they go through the extracted soil and look for small pieces of cobalt. It is estimated that up to 35,000 of these working children in cobalt mines. What the dusty environment down does to human organism is probably clear to everyone. Electromobility is not only far from ecology, but you still support children's work. How many centuries of green hypocrisy will bring us back, they've forgotten to tell us. Attention, just ordinary citizens, because the top is going to ride in electric cars, because ordinary citizens won't be able to eat meat, and we'll be left with cricket flour and bike so we don't have much carbon footprint. I don't know what they're gonna replace eggs with, because they're about to become a narrow profile commodity. We're about to learn, like in the US, that gas cookers cause asthma for children just so we don't consume gas that the government hasn't secured. Let's just hope that once the cricket of our necks pops up, we get adequate medical care, because our health care is already falling into chaos. We don't have enough doctors or medical personnel. Pharmacies report blackouts on vital medications as well. The most missing are antibiotics and medicines and medicines for children affected by fevers and respiratory diseases. Specifically, penicillin is missing for the treatment of angina, such as Paracetamol, or Paralene. Ibuprofen, Nurofen, syrup for children for inflammation of the upper and lower airways, etc. are missing. Patients need to go around pharmacies many times within a dozen kilometers to get the medicine they need. What about the Minister of Health? He's trying to put out a fire, but he's had several outbreaks. Let's go to defense, which is under the command of Secretary of Defense Jana Černochová, whom citizens on social networks call the Minister of War. We still have a rocket crash in Poland in our vivid memory. Minister of Defence Jana Černochová, after the intervention of two Russian missiles on the Polish territory near the Ukrainian border, was rashly expressing herself on social networks without waiting for an incident investigation. You'd expect a more restraining reaction from the Secretary of Defense. Let us be glad that none of NATO Member States acted rashly as our Minister. The idea that the amendment of the Constitution initiated by Minister Černochová would be valid, which would have passed through the first reading on Friday and would allow the Czech Government to broadcast armed forces outside the territory of our state and, on the contrary, to invite foreign troops without Parliament's consent for up to 60 days in the Czech Republic, would perhaps be able to provoke a war conflict. Nothing against women in high positions, but whoever plays general and has an ego problem shouldn't really be in charge of this department. The Minister's expertise illustrates the praise of the leopard tanks because they are recommended by the Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek, who likes to play tank games. I could keep going, but we'd be here a long time. Let's recap. Priorities of the Czech Government - support of Ukraine, correspondence vote, change of election and number of members of the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council and amendment of the Constitution, articles that allow the Government to be authorised to invite foreign troops without Parliament's consent for up to 60 days to our territory or to send armed forces of the Czech Republic outside the territory of our state. Do you see here somewhere that this government would be interested in improving citizens' lives in order to increase their standard of living, which has fallen most in the last 30 years, and wages in the Czech Republic are failing record? I didn't. This year, redundancies that the Čech do not remember for a long time will be added to the ongoing expensive. The economists are pointing it out. For example, the phenomenal brand Botas, a shoe company from Skutč, ends with the production of footwear and the reason is, of course, a huge increase in energy prices as well as for other companies. The company was founded on 4 July 1949 under the name Botana and ran in her shoes for example Emil Zátopek and many other athletes who won medals in them at the Olympic Games. This government will drive out and destroy everyone. Maybe he thinks it's better to make grenades and send them to Ukraine than shoes. The Home Office is somehow silent about the solution to the Dosimeter case, probably out of modesty, and is about to close the tip of the upcoming censorship. Well, that's what it looks like when the administrative democrats rule what makes criticism and other opinions disinformation. Let's remember the covid, when everyone who admitted the virus from the lab was called a disinformer. Today, experts like Professor Prymula speak openly about this. Disinformation is nothing more than information shifted in time, and it is often an unsettling truth of the ruling Garniture. It is deliberately mixed with a lie that can be shown to be false information at a given moment and time. I could stand here and tell a story by morning about a government that doesn't live in the real world, or maybe it's working on order to destroy the Czech Republic, because otherwise I can't explain it. In listening to Prime Minister Fiala, I wonder if he was in the right parliament when he mentioned the help of Ukraine all the time. What about helping our citizens? So whose interests are they defending? I also have a message to conclude today for our citizens. You wanted a change, but the elections to the Chamber of Deputies didn't go well. You'd think you'd learned your lesson, but the first round of the presidential election turned out no. And now you're facing sophiiný's choice. Remember: who does not learn from their mistakes and history must repeat them and live them again. The sovereign in this state is not manipulative media. We are not politicians either, but it is you, citizens, the Czech Republic. They're people. It is the source of all state power, as the Constitution says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u358	Madam, honourable Members, have a nice evening. I'll read an apology. Mr Martin Hájek, Mr Martin Hájek, takes back his apology, which means that Mr Martin Hájek cancels his apology. Mr Vladimír Zlínský, Mr Vladimír Zlínský, will now apply to the general debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u359	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister and, above all, Madam Secretary, thank you for being here to hear my speech. I'll admit I'm gonna cut back. I picked up the signal, I also picked up the signal from my colleagues from YES, especially from some, I won't name them, they're already laughing at me, looking at me with terror in their eyes, how long it's gonna take, my speech, and what I'm gonna say here. Well, I'll tell you what you're gonna lose. What I had prepared. I had an amazing speech about energy where I wanted to talk about fusion power, fusion reactors, so I'm afraid you won't know. You won't know anything about it. I'm just going to say that for fusion energy, it's going to need lithium, so it's going to be in Ore Mountains. That's pretty good news. Then I wanted to talk about the amazing photosynthetic chain, how the photosynthetic chain is fantastically tuned and how it allows you to capture sunlight with a fusion reaction to the sun. Then you won't know either. I'm not gonna talk about that either, so don't hold me up. Then I wanted to talk about the exploration of the universe, Stephen Hawking, who, just before he died, said that it was necessary for mankind to continue to space, that it was his primary goal. That's not how I'm gonna talk about it either. Nor about rock mining on nearby asteroids. By the way, there are rare earth elements that are currently scarce. I'm not even going to talk about biotechnology, I've already talked about those, you know, you don't understand that anymore. So I have a new topic, I'm going to talk about a new topic. And this new theme is the onset of artistic intelligence, or artificial intelligence. The start occurred during this and last year. You may have noticed that, you who use social media, so you have noticed that, first, Facebook is able to slip you very sophisticated things that interest you and that will keep you focused on all kinds of nonsense, when you're wasting time that you can't devote to other productive activities. Another thing that has improved immensely is translations. In case you haven't noticed, I suggest you take a look at Google Translate, put some text on it, and see how fantastic it will be in English or vice versa. Now I'm going to focus on this phenomenon, which unfortunately also carries many negatives, and the negatives are not reflected very much. There is only talk of positives, and we as legislators should reflect mainly the negatives, because the development is extremely fast in this direction and we need to capture it. The development and integration of the artificial intelligence system and the social networks of digital platforms have shown a way to feed the hydra, which will control and manipulate us in a direction that will benefit the data owner and artificial intelligence and give him incredible power. These digital platforms know everything about us. Everything, all the information we give them at their disposal. But we don't know anything about them. We don't know what he's doing with the data. Politicians have noticed, and they want to follow their example. And they're going to argue that they're doing this in our best interest, that they need the data to manage society effectively. As rapporteur for the European Committee, the Committee on European Affairs, I have reached a document, a proposal for a regulation on the European Area for Health Data. And I dropped it, you might say, on my head, because I was the only doctor there. And maybe the coincidence is that I'm very interested in the digitalization issue here. I used to do this, I was the author of the programs and some improvements in my ambulance, so I started to look into it and I studied some literature here. What's the source of this artificial intelligence? Like I said, we feed them ourselves by contributing to social networks, interacting, wearing wellness equipment. It means those smart watches and bracelets and things like that that send information about our biometric data to who knows where or maybe we publish it on the Internet. Then what happens? Basically, Google and Facebook use and feed their artificial intelligence data that they actually get from us, and it leads to incredibly improved image recognition. The image recognition, you may have noticed that if you put a picture on the Internet, it's gonna do a little bit of a rectangular thing to you. And you say it's you or some friends of yours. But unfortunately, it has a negative sequence. It's not just funny. Because you realize that cameras are then installed, it is said to be in China that they are able to recognize every person who is moving somewhere in public space or somewhere, of course it can be installed on a drone, which, eventually, and that is an extreme situation, can somehow eliminate a person. I mentioned the translations here. The next thing you know, where there's been tremendous progress, is converting the text to the spoken word and the other way around. You may have noticed that you're using it on navigational navigation. Again, it may have a very beneficial use. I imagine in my doctor's office that I could dictate a text in an investigation, and the other way around, it could be that the text translates like a voice, and I would learn some data about the patient during the investigation. So these technologies are a good servant, but a bad master. I would warn you about... to realize that if this development continues, we can work towards some supervisory society that we are heading to by collecting and using data on individual populations, which can mean total control over every person involved in this system. It can also lead to such, I'd say a little exaggeration, digital tyranny. And it's all going to happen for our own good. Let's remember the covido time when there was actually a soft version of the tyranny that some people were ostracized, dehonested for our sake. Of course, the soft version of the tyranny can be a little bit worse, as they say it's happening in China, where it's supposed to happen that those people who have that low social credit are forbidden to study, travel, attractive work, and we saw it in Canada when it was touched by the people and their cash that they had in the banks. Another thing I wanted to mention is that it can lead to the use of these technologies to manipulate our thinking, based on the knowledge of an algorithm of behavior and behaviour, both of us as individuals and groups of people. And I would like to warn that it is mostly dangerous for children and young people, and it remains unnoticed, and this often corresponds to their thinking. Whoever controls the data about us will also control our thinking through artificial intelligence algorithms without us knowing it. I already told you, we don't know anything about them. They know everything. [[22.20 hours]] What does that mean? I think that every citizen should decide what is going on with his data relating to him, even if this data is being anonymous, and he should know what they are being used for. On the other hand, civil society must have the right to control and exploit data relating to interference in their health or other aspects of their life which (?) is coerced by state power or other entity. And I would also mention another unpleasant aspect of digitalization, and that's digital dementia. Unfortunately, it's about our young population again. Unfortunately, even in my neighborhood, these examples occur, even in my family, when the young, especially the boys, simply succumb, I'll be honest, gamblerism. They are often lost for study and work. I would also mention here that the artificial intelligence could become a kind of blackbox, so a black box, where she's actually learning in some way, and we don't know how. So we may not be able to control it and suggest any improvement in the solution, and we won't know if she actually made the right decision. Now I'm going to mention something positive, and it could bring about a huge breakthrough in health care. Because the fact that I'm a doctor, I can imagine what it could lead to, the use of artificial intelligence, that it could be extremely helpful to doctors. On the other hand, unfortunately, this can lead to a dehumanization of access to patients. So I think there's some sensible approach, if it goes away, it might be positive, but I'm lifting my finger so we don't fall for it. Furthermore, I would mention here the genetic information of each of us that the European Union is sharpening its teeth to. I think that the use and use of genetic information must be clearly linked to consent and that must be absolutely unconditional. Data relating to the behaviour, social and employment status of persons or smaller or larger groups of residents, which can be used to manage society's life, cannot be used without the consent and appropriate instruction to promote the unilateral interests of individual entities and ultimately the interests of the whole society, not to mention health data. Maintaining democratic debate is essential. Disinformation as a scourge on unpleasant opposition views is wrong. Without discussion, competing ideas and solutions there is no progress, without progress there will be stagnation of decline and fall. Unfortunately, the direction of society from democracy and prosperity to centralist governance and the decline in the further development of civilization seems likely, because the artificial intelligence systems record it, the centralization, for the reasons I have stated. I'll mention a writer here, maybe you know him. I specifically point out the right part of the hall, because it is, I call it the Prophet of Progressivism. His name is Juval Harari, he wrote a book called Sapiens, so whoever didn't read it on the right side of the hall, I recommend it. On the left, too, because it's good to know that even our opponents can write interesting books and have interesting ideas that they can inspire. But this prophet of progressiveism appeared at the World Economic Forum in Davos in 2018 and painted a very grim but possible view of the future on the basis of his theory that we are now at the time of the third revolution. The first revolution he meant agrarian or agricultural, the second industrial. Harari claims that the point from which there is no return will occur when technology is able to extract highly accurate biometric data from people and submit them back to a centralised decision-control system owned by governments or corporations, or both. That's what we've got. We already have a smart watch, tapes and other things. And in that regulation of the European Union for space for health data, there is that requirement. This means a request from wellness applications. So far, it's supposed to be voluntary for a wellness application manufacturer, but it needs to be known to the people who buy the wristbands. And biometries mean our pulse, pressure, composition of sweat, pupil enlargement, etc. And he calls it a lie detector on steroids. I have no doubt there isn't much time for these smart devices to do a blood test. The main question, Harari, is: Who will have control over these data? How will this wealth be regulated? What will be the result of ownership of data by several dominant owners? What will the data be used for? Citizens are willing to give digital platforms information about their privacy for the possibility of free interaction in their social bubble, their biometric information to companies producing funds for their recording and publishing them cheerfully on social networks, thus making them available to digital platforms and their centralised data processing unit without knowing what is happening to them. If they are told that their health will depend on it and they are needed to care for their health, it is clear what will follow for most of the population. We know it from the covide age after all. In no way can residents be forced to surrender their data, albeit allegedly anonymous, to anyone and in any way penalized, in the event of disagreement. In addition to the advantages, it is also necessary to mention the disadvantages of the digitisation of the company, which is not in any way happening in the public space. If the majority population fails to understand possible risks in advance, the form of supervision society will be so firmly formed that no correction will be possible. My performance is the first swallow of this type. And I hope that other experts who share the same or similar concerns as I do will gradually join in. Can artificial intelligence be used for positive manipulation for the benefit of the whole? I'm asking. I think so. The need to increase birth rates in dying populations was mentioned here. Then I imagine we'll somehow influence our population to increase birth rates. Improving health prevention. Yeah, that's good, too. Improving general education at the level and interest of the user. But I think there has to be a social consensus and consent of data providers. Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize for a slightly less understandable text, but try to think about it and think about whether we want such a future. I am often blamed that my speeches belong to scientific forums rather than to Parliament. This example shows how vitally and quickly and new technologies have driven our ability to respond to it and to regulate it properly. And it is clear that without basic knowledge of the issue, this is not possible at all. Now I'm gonna be a little critical of the government. I haven't been yet. I am afraid that the current government under the influence of the progressive European Union and part of our population - I have mentioned here those children who, in my opinion, are under the influence of the manipulation - want this future without knowing what they are doing. Either we give it to them, or we try to modify it as protagonists, maybe you know it by some, the Asimovův's saga of the Foundation, and not just by my predicted decline, we will try to shorten or completely avert it. Meanwhile, I feel that the current government is riding on steroids the maximum unlimited digitization of our society, which I promote by the institutions of the European Union, as I have mentioned here. I will therefore vote in favour of the motion to express my distrust to the current government. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u360	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Jan Síla cancels his application for a general debate. Mr Viktor Vojtko will now speak with a point of fact and Mr Zdeněk Kettner will be prepared. Please, your point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u361	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I have held back, but I have not been able to do so here, and I have to respond to Mr Zlínský's speech, through Mr President. It's unfortunately... or maybe for you, but it's the opposite of artificial intelligence. And here I have to stand up for governments quite significantly, because in December of last year at the level of the European Union, which I also have to stand up for, as you did, the new rules on the use of artificial intelligence have been approved, which are dealing with what you have been naming here in your rather long speech, resulting in a rather long discussion at the level of the European Union on this subject. Just because we haven't dealt with this here in the Czech Parliament doesn't mean it doesn't go elsewhere. This is what I think is a topic that is extremely important for the Czech Republic in the future. It can certainly be an important source of competitiveness for the future for us. So I would just make it exactly the opposite conclusion in that sense than you did at the end. And since the topic has indeed been taken up by the Czech Government and is working very actively on it, we have the experts on artificial intelligence, so I, on the contrary, am in favour of the government having confidence. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u362	I thank you and Mr zlínský's factual comment. Please, your reaction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u363	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I knew it, Mr Vojtka, by your means, Mr President, that you would respond. I appreciate that you understand, I admit it, but you have to understand my point of view again, because I'm looking at it with the perspective of what I've been reporting, and there I see the dangers. So unfortunately, the European Union's attitude is often ambivalent to me, because on the one hand, it sets the face of such a positive and somewhere deep there is something dark. So I've analyzed the European Health Data Area. And as for the fact that this is being dealt with at European level, that is nice, but you know well that I am not a big fan of the European Union. I would like it to be dealt with mainly at our level and that the results are real, so that what I mentioned here is dealt with in some kind of horizon, so that I can see that it's not just some - I'll say it a little bit vulgar - beating empty straw. And sometimes the experts tell you they're dealing with it, they're dealing with it, but there's nothing going on in real life. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u364	Thank you for your point of view. Mr Zdeněk Kettner is now duly enrolled and Mr Roman Kubíček will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u365	Thank you, Mr President. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. We meet here for the second time in the vote on trust in the government, and I would give a little bit - a clever hint, but perhaps in vain. Of course, I'm going to repeat some things here, given how long we've been sitting here, and some of the things I wanted to talk about seem completely pointless to me, because they've fallen here so many times, that maybe even at midnight, when someone wakes us up, that's exactly what we're saying. That means I'd like to put my own perspective on it. There are a few things I can't forgive the government internally. When the electoral struggles were, of course, the political parties are coloring themselves in the best possible light, offering something, and I assume the voter who gives the vote on the basis of those promises expects it not only to be idle talking, but to mean it fatally, fatally seriously. And I have a lot of examples here where sometimes real actions are even in direct conflict with those pre-election promises. A new political culture has been promised, political purity - and I will sign this, I think that every person in this republic would be pleased if that were the case. We keep talking about how people stop trusting in politics, stop trusting politicians, and stop trusting the Chamber of Deputies. And what we're going to talk about, we're contributing to this to a degree, and we're doing everything we can to make this mistrust grow. We talked about the government promising purity. And we have a dozimetr case. Then we hear that it's actually perfectly okay, because after a while, those affected have decided to resign. For me, the new political culture would really be such that the Dosimeter case wouldn't even show up here. That there wouldn't even be anything to reveal. Then I'd start believing in purity and purge of politics. Next, here I am... constantly hearing some division into democratic and undemocratic parties. As a Member, I still believe in the impartiality of the courts, in the functioning of the legal system. Does anyone here in this Chamber of Deputies want to tell me that if some undemocratic, really undemocratic party were sitting here, that she would even get elected? Maybe it wasn't canceled? If that is what you're saying, if you're saying that there is an undemocratic party sitting here in this Chamber of Deputies, then you're actually saying that the system has failed, the legal system has failed, because that is something unimaginable. So I'd like us to refrain from such nonsense and untrue attacks here. We can argue about the practicality of some bills, but this labeling, spitting dirt is really undignified to the Chamber of Deputies and once again contributes to the way ordinary people, ordinary people, ordinary populations, voters view us. Come in. Our party is called "democracy." And we're not the only party that has that name. And then I see what this government is really promoting - and don't be mad at me, it's all possible, just not democratic. We have a lack of respect for the election result. Once again, based on something sloppy, that there's a democratic party, and that's why it doesn't get any position in the House, as it's been customary for years. So we don't respect the election result, the will of the voters. Then we've got web blocking, we've got KRIT, we've got related media subsidization. So I expect a new Red Law to be created here, which will hold the right direction, determine what is right, everything else will be inadmissible, or get financially settled, and actually it's not our fault. I, when I tinkled those keys in 1989, never thought things like throwing them out of work on the basis of incorrect opinions would come back here in my life. But who will determine what it is, an incorrect opinion? I thought there was freedom, there was freedom of opinion, and if I didn't break the law in order to urge a crime, if I didn't accuse anyone, I could actually express my opinion freely. And here we have Professor Drulák's release. Please, just a really weak man believes the reason he was released from the institution he founded. He's a professional with everything. Then there's the cue to snitch. I thought it was a bonfire, that it was cultivated during World War II, like when it was reported at the Gestapo. Then under communists, they snitched on StB, and it comes back at the same time. That's what I'm left with, the reason to stand where we've come from? Mr. Klíma, yes, the state censor. And other things. [[2.40 hours]] Things are still being pushed around here like correspondence choices. For proboha's sake, that correspondence vote was already so dirty when I said it, that it happened during those correspondence elections abroad. If we introduce this correspondence choice, we will discredit the elections in the eyes of citizens in advance. Then we have energy, Green Deal, emission allowances. We all know it's evil. We've heard there's a need to reduce it in some way, reduce it. Well, voilà, then all of a sudden in the papers, on TV, I can hear how great it is that we're even going to expand them. So here we have some words and completely different actions. And I could go on like this. A body bag, right? I think the Ministry of the Interior, as a state institution, is supposed to perform completely different functions than just some activist screams. Why? Because the institution is supposed to be a model of professionalism. And this really wasn't professional. Another scream: rocket in Poland. Even the greatest powers of the world have urged restraint, and I have heard the challenges here slowly as to attack. That means, even the diplomacy kind of stops being professional. And I would conclude by summing up why I would actually vote in favour of distrust of the government, such a summary as at the end of the hour with those basic points. Why, what I don't like? Two meters, hypocrisy, power and activism instead of professionalism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u366	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Roman Kubíček will now appear and prepare Mr Jaroslav Bašta. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u367	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I will allow myself to turn to the remaining members of the government and remind them of the promise made here in the negotiations of the Energy Act in September of this year, and that is the inclusion of vulnerable people in the reception of electrical, gas and other energy. At this point, I tabled an amendment concerning what a serious problem separation from electricity or gas can be for vulnerable persons. They're retired people, single parents, disabled people and so on, and so on. I have presented here two relatively simple amendments, which were also somehow acknowledged by the coalition, and I was promised that a government proposal would be prepared by the end of 2022, with the government proposal being accompanied by compensation from the workshop of Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jurečka. That's why it was supposed to be done. Following this, the Government's implementing decrees were to regulate these matters according to the present situation. Well, we have half of January, and I have read that only the parliamentary seminar will be announced on this subject, where this matter will be discussed. I would like to point out, although I don't expect it to be a mass issue, that the first disconnect can happen now, because, in order to realise, the impact of electricity prices and other energy prices will actually only occur now with those bills and payments. There has been no large and significant increase in monthly payments with some fixation of individual tariffs, but the bill will be dating from January to March, and I believe that a certain percentage of households can cause problems. And according to the current Energy Act, if there are no outstanding payments, the distributor is obliged to disconnect the customer within 30 days. So they could be the first swallows. And we're not ready to help them. You can say that these people are going to ask for some benefits, they're going to be some support from the Department of Labour and Social Affairs, of course. It will be possible, it will affect a certain part, and this deepening can continue to increase. According to the latest information, up to 20 percent of Czech households are getting into certain financial problems. That's a pretty significant number. And according to individual banks' research, electricity affects up to 68 percent of these 20 percent of households. It's the highest cargo they're not ready for. So, Minister and Minister, I would like to remind the Prime Minister of the promise made here, and I would ask you to quickly process the wording of this law, including the implementing decrees, and, at the same time, at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, to create some support for these households. I think it's acceptable on my part. I didn't attack you here, I had a little bit of energy work to do here, but we've heard it about nine times before, so I don't think it's necessary to keep reminding you. But I beg you to interpret my wishes and the promise made here by your mouth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u368	And I thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Jaroslav Bašta will now appear and Mr Igor Hendrych will be prepared. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u369	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for the second time, we have witnessed such a special performance when the opposition comes with criticism and hears an overview of the achievements of building a higher stage of liberal democracy, and on the other hand, it turns out that the government is progressing in such a way that it may in some cases deserve entry in the Guinness Book of Records for how it can indebt the Czech Republic, for how it can reduce the standard of life of its citizens, and for how it cannot face problems. I've been thinking about what it reminds me of, and on that occasion, I remembered the '90s, the big privatization and the beautiful Kindermanagement Institute. Which were the people who were put into some companies that were intended to privatise a predetermined bidder, and their job was simply to indebt the company as much as possible, to disable it so that it could be sold very cheaply. And we can see some of the tendencies here right now. So I have one final point to make. You know, all the governments who behaved this socially in the history of the Czech Republic over the past 30 years have always ended before their term was over. So maybe it would be quite good if you thought about it so you wouldn't have to repeat these strange performances in this House, and they voted with us for the government's resignation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u370	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Igor Hendrych will now prepare Mr Kamal Farhan. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u371	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I usually refer to the issue of social policy and in it I am usually very critical of the work of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and Minister Jurečka. However, many of my previous speakers have already spoken on this issue today, so today I will talk about something else. [[2.50 hours]] I'm gonna cut this short and talk about how not only does my imagination fill the area of the government's programming statement under the headline, or under some section called Justice and Law, which, when I say it in a nutshell, is dealt with or should be dealt with according to the programming statement by reducing the number of convicted in the execution of the sentence and reducing recurrence. There are about six or seven points there, but more or less six points that focus on this topic. I was quite in high expectations about a year ago, because this issue is professionally quite close to me, and unfortunately what happened that year does not fulfill my ideas yet. In a nutshell, I'm going to focus on the individual points and I'm going to ask more or less rhetorical questions. The Minister isn't here, I believe I'll get the answer some other time. I have to admit, Minister Blažek is quite forthcoming in communication, I'll give you that, so I guess we'll talk about it later. So: We will focus on the problem of overuse of criminal repression in dealing with low social harm - that is point 1. Point 2: We will advocate an extension of the execution of alternative punishments. Okay. But I wonder how it's going to be done, or at what stage it's at right now. Personally, I can't imagine it going any other way than basically changing the criminal law. And to push for an extension of alternative punishments, yes, only a change in criminal law. The abuse of criminal repression, there I have no idea how other than by the moral appeal maybe or by some appeal to the judge, because they are masters of the situation when they pass judgment on a particular convicted person, and it can hardly be very effective to interfere. So here's where I'd like to know the answer to these things. We will ensure the selection of a suitable supplier of electronic monitoring system, electronic bracelets. That's where I've read something, that it might start to work again in, like, two years. I'm not going to go into the details, because this is like a chronic thing that's bothering us, and it could have worked a lot longer, but unfortunately. So I quite understand. We will simplify employment and increase the number of prisoners employed. I'd also like to know what's going on right now. I don't have any information. I'm watching this a little bit, and I know that the employment of convicted people is essentially not subject to any economic influence, so neither any recession or boom does, on average, affect the employment of convicted persons, at least according to the numbers available. Against last year, it is true that prisoners' employment increased by 3.5% to some 55 percent, but for example in 2018, it was almost 60 percent. So I don't know, it's quite complicated, because not everyone convicted is fit to be employed, and I wonder how it's supposed to happen, how the current government, or the Justice Department, intends it. We will support the expansion of the concept of open prisons. So that's what I asked directly at the source, right at the prison service, and I found out that only one open prison is planned. They were supposed to be two originally according to the programming declaration. Or this: According to the government's statement sometime last August, but they're not supposed to finance it, so there's only one for women in the Great Přílopy here at the Prague prison in Ruzyne. But from the very beginning. It's going to take at least two years, maybe three, because it's essentially going to be a house on a green meadow, as the people say, so all the licensing processes and so on, we can imagine it won't be in a while. So I might also want more information on this: why has there been a message in the media that there will be two prisons open, now only one, and when it will actually be opened. Well, we'll support system support for penitentiary, post-penitentiary inter-resort cooperation and so on. So that is the thing that I think is the most burning thing in the Czech Republic, because - just as I mentioned here in relatively short two, today for the third time - we are in very bad shape in this regard. We are one of the absolute top not only in the European Union but also in Europe in the number of prisoners per population. We have a huge relapse of about 70, 75 percent, and it's basically a long-term issue that's not being dealt with in any way. There was a commission, and I've already talked about it here, somebody who should be dealing with this issue. However, according to the information I have, it focuses almost exclusively on the area of criminal policy, which should in some way change, to adjust so that, say, the relapsers are not punished by increased punishments, as they are today, and to reduce the punishments for, say, less serious, less socially serious crime. But I think that's not enough, because the factors involved in having such a large number of people in prison are still at least two of those fundamentals, and that's how it works right in those prisons, if the programs really are effective, or how the factor of the positive effect on the so-called prisonisation factor is. I won't worry about it anymore, because if I had to explain what the prisonization is, I've been standing here a long time. But I think the Minister, who will hear my speech for sure, will understand that. And I find the biggest problem in so-called post-penitentiary care, that is, in an area that should deal with social inclusion, social inclusion of people after the execution of the sentence. And there I believe that the Czech Republic has the biggest debt or the biggest problem, because in this area almost nothing has changed in 30 years, or more than 30 years after the Velvet Revolution. And this so-called post-penitentiary care places many barriers, many important barriers to people's life as a normal citizen. This is called in the initial phase of dissatisfaction, which means that he will leave crime and then be able to gradually integrate himself into ordinary civil life without being helped. And that's where I think he's the biggest problem. So I'm basically gonna cut it short, I said I'd be brief. It's too bad it's at this time and the Minister isn't here. This issue is very fundamental and, unfortunately, no one is currently paying attention to it. So I'm the one who's gonna be carrying this topic here and I'm gonna be carrying it at other meetings on other occasions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u372	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Kamal Farhan is now duly enrolled and Mr Oldřich Černý will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u373	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. I will just briefly mention a few points about health care, and I would briefly comment on them here. I would like to say that civilised countries must have a confident, consensual government in their opinions, a government that can decide, a government that is able to help socially weaker groups of people, a government that can manage not only the economy but also the social and health system. We have a chaotic government here. A government that destroys citizens' living standards. A government that doesn't know what it wants. By its actions, the Czech health services will lead to a state where people will have to pay and pay for medical care, when the government is already talking about the need to raise money for some operations after it has taken 14 billion to improve its leaky budget. On the other hand, I must say that I was pleased today by Minister Válek. I'll take the liberty of quoting from his performance, that's from the tape screen. I consider this to be very important, and I am saying the joyous message he has sent has sent out a clear signal. Quote: Only a paramedic insane would say he wants less money. No doubt every crown in health care is good. - It's the first time I've heard anything like this from government desks, because, as we all know, the government took the 14 billion away from Czech health care. And I consider what the Minister said today to be a clear signal, but I do not understand him in the context of what he has been broadcasting here in the past. I think that all health segments should also send a clear signal to the government when they disagree with the Minister of Health's chaotic actions. [[23.00 hours]] Health in recent years, in its budgets to the GDP ratio, has started to compare with developed Western European countries. It's starting to get out of funding. With the current double-digit inflation, planning payments to hospitals, ambulances and practitioners at 8 percent increase means a real reduction in the amount of money to provide healthcare, so we are in danger of moving away from that advanced Europe again. The government's decision to cut payments for state insured people, when it took 14 billion from Czech health care, increased the deficit of the public health insurance system. It exorcises the state budget deficit by a public health insurance deficit. Another such thing that the Minister of Health put forward here was the pandemic law. We know what kind of discussions have actually been going on around the pandemic law. Finally, despite the opposition and their coalition colleagues in the Senate, the government and the Ministry of Health managed to enforce this law. Even in the Senate, they evaluated their work and this law as a scumbag. That's not my quote, that's a quote from the Senate. They devoted weeks to putting restrictions on the outdoor activities of kindergartens and universities into it, even though they had other legislative instruments to cope with the worsening situation. The next step was to show where their priorities were instead of dealing with a situation with a lack of funds, a lack of doctors, nurses, and a situation in some hospitals. In short, I'd like to talk about the medication. We see here that access to the lack of medication that he's trying to deal with is not in five minutes twelve, but it's past twelve. And once again, you see priorities that their top priority is reducing money to health care. Our fellow citizens must then buy these medicines abroad, such as Poland, Slovakia, Austria. The next step towards the destruction of Czech health care is the situation in the sanitary service. I have no idea how the government can do, in the current situation and after experience in the past pandemic years, to reduce the capacity of public health authorities, that is to say, health stations. For years, these institutions have been on the brink of political concern, which has come back to us in the pandemic. We've seen it live on the air, how hygiene hasn't been able to cope with the plague. And yet I don't think the fight against pandemics is over. The absurdity of this decision is underlined by the fact that dozens of employees will be released from hygiene by the government, but has no problem hiring new employees for new ministries to satisfy their five-calice government. I would just briefly mention the answer to my written interview when I asked the Minister how he observed waiting times for medical procedures, how he evaluated them. His answer, black and white, I quote again. "The Ministry of Health does not evaluate waiting times. The obligation to report waiting periods at the Ministry of Health is not established.' According to data from the Ministry of Health currently missing Czech health care 3 000 general nurses, 1,000 doctors. In addition, the capacity of practitioners and practitioners for children and adolescents is in danger of falling. This is just a few pieces, a few seed beads from overwhelming disinterest, the disdain of the Ministry of Health to deal with acute things that interest us not only Members, but I believe the public as well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u374	And I thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Now, then, Mr Oldřich Černý and Mr Ivo Vondrák will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u375	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear citizens, as of yesterday morning, there has been a great deal of information on what this government has created and done for the well-being of the citizens of the Czech Republic, and there have also been references to how much each meeting day costs and that our speeches should be factual and constructive. So I have prepared a multi-page list of comments on this government's actions to the detriment of the citizens that I hear every day in the media, on the street, in the shop, around me and in the various discussions, and my explanation of why I will vote for my constituents in favour of the motion of distrust to the government. And at the advice of your more experienced colleagues, I have decided to reduce my speech considerably. I have put together the essentials of your speeches, actions and, above all, government actions and regulations during your government's time of action, as most citizens see it. However, I also drew from the media, from social networks, from discussions, as I have already mentioned, and above all from the street. And surprisingly, I was able to put together your recommendations to all residents, businessmen, small, medium and large Czech companies, young and old, healthy and ill. So let me sum it all up for you, and for those of you here in the hall and the TV screens that want to take notes, I'll speak more slowly, and for the sake of clarity, I won't be divorcing the recommendations. So: don't drown, don't light up, don't ride, don't build, don't cook, don't swear, don't criticize, don't strike, don't get sick, work tirelessly, save up on your pension, and last but not least don't think. [[emphatically]] But now the question is, how long will most citizens of the Czech Republic like it? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u376	Thank you, too. Mr Ivo Vondrák is now duly registered. He's not present, I'm erasing the application. Now, then, Mrs Zuzana Ožanová and Mr Patrik Nacher will be ready. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u377	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Dear ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I confess that yesterday I did not have a speech prepared. My speech was based on how the government presented its results. I wanted to ask questions, I couldn't, which is why I will now refer to some of the ministers and to their praises, to their own praises, which they have presented here. To Minister Lipavský, as I looked into my apologies, I probably won't even see him today in the vote. He said the result of the previous diplomacy was a 100% dependence on Russian gas. So let us remember quite recently 2010 and a student of Lipavský, who concluded in his bachelor thesis: Energy supplies alone are not a real political instrument of the Russian Federation. Yet he defended his bachelor thesis with this conclusion at Charles University. And now he says, "You should have known." For better accuracy, I will quote the whole second-to-last paragraph of the mentioned bachelor's work: "Although Russia is well aware of its position on the energy raw materials market and openly declares that it is the development of the energy sector that will help the Russian Federation restore the brilliance of the power position, the analysis reveals that energy supply itself is not a real political instrument of the Russian Federation. " So many quotes. So at the time he wasn't a minister, the minister found it wasn't a political instrument, but yesterday he said, "You should have known." To Minister Bartoš. Since 2014, the European Commission has been monitoring the progress of the Member States in the digital field and has published annual reports on the digital economy index and DESI. The reports cover country profiles each year, helping Member States to identify the areas in which they need to take action as a priority, and thematic chapters contain an analysis of key areas of digital policy at EU level. The DESI index ranks Member States according to the level of digitisation and analyses their relative progress over the past five years, taking into account their initial situation. [[23.10 hours]] And now to the Czech Republic. Based on the result of the digital economy index and DESI for 2022, the Czech Republic ranks 19th among the 27 Member States of the European Union, making it worse than 2021. So much for this report and the achievements in the field of digitization. The only success in digitization is that the Director of the Digitalization Agency may not have a university. For me, it's the only thing I'm taking from the Minister from last year to digitize. Minister Kupek, who is present here. To sum up the success of this government, the Minister included an extension of the registration control of road motor vehicles from 30 days to one year. I get it, it's a success, 'cause it's reducing the bureaucratic burden after all. However, in the last parliamentary term, there was a press of 1046, where the Ministry of Transport had already come up with this idea. It was an extension from 30 days to two years. Then, by various parliamentary proposals and discussions, it was concluded that one year would be a compromise. However, given the end of the last term, this press has no longer been able to pass through the third reading. So, although the Minister has stated it as a success for this government, yes, it is a success because we have completed this law, but the work on this field has already begun in the previous term. I am glad for that, but it would be more successful if the two-year deadline were adopted at the time, as originally suggested by the Ministry, because this thing would address the problems of those people who sell their vehicle, forget that they should comply with their legal obligation and change the vehicle register to the owner of the vehicle, and then wonder when the administrative authorities are sending them... and then wonder when the administrative authorities are sending them calls for payment for, for example, for exceeding the permitted speed of driving or driving on red. Because they sold the vehicle, they don't know where it is, but they're still registered in the vehicle register. They are responsible for these offences by vehicle operators, then there must be a re-registration. They go to the office, they find out that it has to go administratively, they don't deal with the new owner and administrative proceedings are under way. A valid registration check is a condition for re-registration of a vehicle. And if they don't reach out to the new owner, they don't have a way to handle it. Well, if it were those two years instead of that one year, they'd have it easier, 'cause that's the technical check deadline. But otherwise, I have no objection to what the Minister said. Overall, the government is constantly promoting and saying how it will reduce the number of officials. I don't know. We have a few more ministers, i.e. approximately more than 70 officials, management positions. This is not a reduction in the number of officials, this is an increase in the number of officials. I would also like to make a brief comment on the Government's programming statement. Here in this field for me, I'd say I'm disappointed. Although I am not a member of the coalition group, I still believe that this could be a document that predicts the process of coalition partners. And even as an opposition, in essence, I should know what will happen next. I was very disappointed here in relation to the Civil Service Act. This coalition presented that this law would change that it would be a common change. However, the chairmen submitted this proposal to amend the law, the presidents of coalition clubs, not the government. And that's where the matter comes in. The discussions were long, I'm not going to repeat them. One argument was that it should have gone through the standard legislative circle, as this government promised in its programming statement to ensure that the laws were of good quality. That didn't happen. And what is now happening at the meetings of our committees? According to the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, drafts of laws submitted by the Government - of course, the government is represented by the Minister. He is to come to the committee to present the law or may be his deputy. The Civil Service Act has been inserted into the Civil Service Act that, therefore, the Minister will entrust the negotiations on those committees and, for that moment, the head of the section will become Deputy Minister so that he can fulfil this legal obligation. But, ladies and gentlemen, lex specialis, the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, the fact in this case is superior to the Civil Service Act. And most ministers, so far, have not had many committees, send the head of the sections. I understand they're experts. He can invite any deputy to the meeting. But government bills are meant to be presented by government representatives, the minister can be from any ministry if he speaks, or his deputy, and not an official. It would be acceptable if the deputy were there, he said a few sentences and passed on the word to the expert. Oh, no. So thanks to the failure of the government coalition to comply with its government programming statement, thank you for alerting my colleague, because the government coalition failed to comply with its government statement, there has been a mistake. How do we fix it now? Are we going to open the House's entire Rules of Procedure for this? It's up to you to consider. But it would be good if you respected the laws on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, and therefore the committees were also attended by ministers themselves to submit government bills or their representatives. I beg you, because I really do not want to repeat this on every committee that you are violating the Rules of Procedure of the House. I won't talk about it anymore. My colleagues have said a lot, and I will only join the crowd that says this government has no confidence in me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u378	Thank you. I'll read an apology. Since 23.20, she has no reason to apologise to Mrs Marie Pošarová. Mr Radek Koten will now appear and Mr Patrik Nacher will be ready. Please, you have the floor. And before you start talking, I'm gonna ask you in the left side of the hall, even though I understand that it's an advanced hour, part of the silence. Thank you. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u379	Thank you, Mr President. Since it's already late, I'm going to try to make it as brief as possible, and basically I'm just going to say the most important thing here. And it can be said that as far as this government's programming statement is concerned, it promised that it would not make it more expensive, that it would not increase taxes and so on and so on. Unfortunately, none of this is coming true. In addition to the fact that the budgetary responsibility that she has advertised is, unfortunately, more of a budgetary irresponsibility, because the state budget deficit is getting bigger and bigger. As far as the increase in energy is concerned, as is happening here in the Czech Republic, and in the case of energy, it is most significant especially for the electricity we produce here ourselves, and unfortunately the Fialův Government has not been able to do anything about this for the citizens of the Czech Republic. And I think that for the steps she's taken, she deserves really, really an appreciation as a loan shark of the year. Because selling something that CEZ power plants produce for 30 to 50 cents, so selling it for 6 crowns and putting a price on it, it's really a masterpiece. As regards the gradual introduction and creepy introduction of censorship and the abolition of constitutional rights, such as freedom of speech, I think that the Fialův Government and Brusel would also deserve a medal. Because what they're basically trying to introduce here is going to bring us back sometime in the 1950s. But I'd make it even shorter. Let me just point out that the funds that the Home Office intends to give to the friendly media and non-profit organizations, which are supposed to wait so-called facts and somehow assess what is and what is not true, on that basis, the government will still pay about a hundred, a hundred million friendly media of the mainstream, which will therefore give right to the government's views, which I think is a complete peak. But I think that everyone who doesn't know history is doomed to live that history over and over again because the ignorance of history really doesn't justify it. And I would be here--
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u380	I apologize, Mr. Ambassador, for entering into your speech, but both in the right and left side of the hall, I will request a silence.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u381	I think it's gonna be really short now. And I'm just gonna go back to that history. It's quite a very, very old history, but I'm going to quote here one of the legislators of a country that we thought was the cradle of democracy. I think it's about time. I quote: "To conclude your meeting, which you have disgraced by contempt for all good and have defiled by all vices. You're nothing but a goal and opponents of a beneficial administration. You're nothing but hired scoundrels. You would sell your country for a piece of miserable food like Ezau, betraying your bůh for a few change like Jidáš. Is there anything good in you? Is there any indecency that is not your own? Believers are no more than my horse. Honey is your god. Which one of you didn't silence your conscience for a bribe? Is there at least one among you who would defend the interests of Commonwealth in a more subtle way? You filthy bitches! Have you desecrated this sacred place with your insolent conjecture and vileness, and made boží's stánek a den of villains? How abominable you are to all the people who have charged you with righting wrongs. So take your jackets, then, and lock up behind you, and go in the name of bůh." So it's Oliver Cromwell's quote from April 20, 1653. So that concludes my speech here, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u382	Thank you, too. The next will be Mr Patrik Nacher, so far the last one entered into the debate. Again, I remind colleagues in the right side of the hall, as well as the left, of the silence, to understand what the Member is saying. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u383	Well, thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear government, ladies and gentlemen, today it has come to my attention that I am the last. [[Laughs in the hall.]] But at least as soon as it's accelerated, at least we'll end up at some reasonable time. I originally prepared more of these notes here, but I'm gonna make it very short, so I think I'll have it in ten minutes. That's information for everyone, so you can call your colleagues, that the vote is coming. You see how fair I am. I will first respond to the debate and the debate that was going on here. On Twitter, it's often written like whine and whine, whining, whining, that's right. This is where I was gonna borrow this, this drip board, this poster you had here, with this picture of Andrej Babiš. And it said "campaign" in a reaction ironic that he often uses it. But today, when I listened to the coalition MPs, you said it most often that the whole meeting was a campaign. So you actually filled up what you were trying to ironically point out here that someone else was doing. Because you said it was a campaign. When I was doing my lines, then I stopped, so you repeated the word Andrej Babiš here with a similar frequency to when you were in opposition and he was Prime Minister. But the situation has changed, colleagues. We're in opposition, you're a coalition, you're a government, you're confessing to the Chamber of Deputies, so making excuses for opposition policies seems like little to me. And speaking of campaigning, I was wondering how it would be for you to be happy if we had a meeting like this. If we do this in December, you will say that this is at the end of our Presidency. If we did it at the beginning of January, you'd say it was before the first round. This is where I point out that we collected the signatures at the club before the first round, so we couldn't figure out how the result would turn out. You're laughing, but you've been urging these democratic candidates to join, and two democratic candidates have made it to the final. So you did everything you could to make sure Andrej Babiš didn't make it to the second round. And we were collecting signatures before the other round. If your visions come true, there's a meeting here today, and the presidential campaign finals are completely different. [[Very noisy in the room.]] Okay, if we called this meeting after the presidential election, we would be criticized again if Petr Pavel won, so that it's like revenge for the opposition club, in case Andrej Babiš won, that it's the first step towards joining, in quotes, ironically meant. So basically, the time is almost ruled out when we should and could call together as opposition -- which you did three times in the last parliamentary term, three times -- without being criticized for it. Well, that's so much for the whine and the whine. It's just that the opposition has a right to do so. We respected that. As a coalition MP, I have always performed with respect here, and I have called it, if you remember it, as well as the confidence of the government, the distrust of the government, as a holiday of democracy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u384	So, colleagues and colleagues, it is the last performance so far duly entered in the debate. I'm going to ask you to pay due attention to him, and if you want to deal with other things, to go to the lobby to discuss... Colleagues, please... Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u385	Well, thank you, Mr. Vice-President. We're such a team. Every time the noise goes up, I turn to you and thank you for encouraging me to relax. Now, basic remarks on why I will vote in favour of this government's mistrust. In principle, it could be summed up in the fact that the government is doing exactly what it criticized of the previous government. Also the most common argument - with any of you I'm on TV, so when you don't know where you're going, you say: you did it, too. You guys did it, too. Anything. From obstructions beginning with efforts to include extraordinary points, extraordinary meetings and so on. Today we were talking about whether when we called for a vote of mistrust, when the preferential rights were that we were zippers, some of you said we weren't zippers. And if you don't know which way you're going, you've done it, too. But you guys ran, and you won the election, and it's gonna be a change. So you just can't argue that you did it, that we did it, because it's not a change. And now I've got your notes here, in writing, I don't read anything I've done by hand, what you've been saying and what you're doing now as a government majority. [[The noise in the hall lasts.]] Rolling, opposition. It's always bothered you. And I remember when we didn't support you, when we voted here, those Members of Parliament spoke with priority rights and complained about the fact that we overruled you. Of course, that wasn't whining. When we do it, it's whining.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u386	I will interrupt you again, Mr. Congressman... And I'll ask for silence. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u387	I will. You didn't approve a special meeting. It doesn't look too good with the opposition window either, it didn't turn out so good. And basically, you're fulfilling everything you didn't like in the previous term. Yes, it is true that at second reading, my proposal and my colleagues are on the amendment of the OSŘ. That's right, that's the only point on the agenda. And I thank you for that. So it's not the absolute zero. So it's just a novel, one of these things. You criticized the adoption of the budget with the fact that there is work in the previous government, with revenue that is not counted, for which there is a need to change the law. And now you've done the same thing, even twice. First the 14 billion for the increased payments for the state insurance companies and then the windfall tax. In fact, you've fulfilled exactly what you criticized in the previous government that she took the liberty of putting in digital tax revenue that was being discussed here between second and third readings. You criticized the increase in debt, but you're increasing it too. And I'm asking, where is it, where are the cuts in terms of the number of employees in the public administration? Which was also one of the most common critics. It's not. On the contrary, there is an increase on the basis of the approved state budget for 2023. Some other things then you did either lately without any communication with the opposition, and that was the thing you criticized at the time of the covid. For the government to communicate more with you as opposed. And I remember there were various meetings, round tables between ministers and opposition leaders, captains and so on. And now we're gonna propose a splash, you're gonna say it's populism, and in 14 days you're gonna come up with a splash. Trade in emission allowances is going in the opposite direction. Tax reduction - there will be an increase. You criticized the previous government about taxes. The previous government, despite the fact that it increased wages, reduced taxes. She's been cutting taxes. And there was this covid. It wasn't a standard time. As a result, we have the highest prices of electricity and gas in our income. This means that citizens in the Czech Republic pay the most when converted into income. And no matter how much we make it, we export it. And these are simply legitimate, legitimate issues of the opposition that you in the Chamber of Deputies simply do not want to answer. And as it happened last week, out of all the proposals, the six blocks, you just didn't put either of you in line, and you weren't willing to answer one of those questions. And I've criticized here that, for example, a specific thing that's not my problem, that's the lack of medicine. That's what the citizens say to you. The minister didn't answer, and then he took two hours with two written interpelations in writing. So I'm gonna make it really short. Sum of the sum...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u388	I'm sorry. Colleagues and colleagues, and I look to the right again this time, I ask you to keep your voice down, so that you understand what the Member here is saying. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u389	Sum of sum, I'm sorry. But, as I say, this government and the majority of 108 Members often do what they criticized in the previous government. They're not letting us in here for discussion, I'm not complaining about how this mistrust is being expressed to the government. But then don't tell us it takes two days for you to take the whole first day. I just want it to be clear, because already, it's already happening on social media, that it takes two days, like we're responsible. A change in the programming statement is announced before us, which, by the way, is also quite important, which has not been mentioned so often. You're just gonna change the programming statement because you're not gonna be able to keep everything you promised there. So maybe I'd like to ask -- and it's more of a rhetorical question, because I expect everyone here, full of the O.R., to vote -- if they're going to come up with any personnel changes with that change in the programming statement. And if you come at least then to vote on trust, not mistrust, that then you would need 101 active votes, not the other way around. I think it would look nice. When the programming declaration changes, new confidence should also be associated with it. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention at 11:30, and I have reduced it to the utmost in respect of you, the staff of the Chamber of Deputies, so that we don't come here for another night, and I wish you a nice vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u390	And thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I don't see any more applications. And if that is the case, I am ending the debate. I wonder if you'd like to take the final words, Prime Minister? It's not like that. In that case, we will now proceed to the vote and I will pass the proceedings on to the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u391	Have a nice late evening, honourable Members. I will also add two cancellations of my apologies, and Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová and Mrs Pastuchová also cancels both her apology. So now we have a closed debate. I'll just remind you that under § 85 para. 1 and 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies shall be put to the Government by name on a motion for distrust. A majority of all Members must be approved in order to adopt a resolution declaring distrust to the Government. I now ask the designated verifiers of this meeting, which are Member Renáta Zajíčková, Member Stanislav Berkovec, to take up positions at the rapporteur's table. First we proceed according to § 74 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies to draw up the name of the Member from whom the vote will take place in alphabetical order. The examination of tickets with the names of Members has been carried out. Dubský Tomáš was drawn. I'm gonna ask you to keep it down. It is recalled that according to § 74 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure shall be formulated by the Member 'for a proposal' or 'against a proposal'. If he abstains, he will say, "I am abstaining." A different speech by the Member shall be regarded as a delay in voting. I ask that each of the Members which is called upon say their position loudly enough so that I may repeat it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[23.40 hours]] Now, once again, I will ask for silence and we will proceed to the vote. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies is expressing distrust to the Government'. Now I will call you, and I beg you to speak. Initiating vote. Dubský Tomáš. I beg the cultivated negotiations and colleagues who are called upon to give only their opinion. It was against the proposal. - I'm sorry. Dvořák Jaroslav: Also excused. Exner Martin: Against the proposal. Faltýnek Jaroslav: For design. Farhan Kamal: Proposition. feranec Milan: For a proposal. Fiala Petr: Against the proposal. Fiala Radim: Proposition. Fialová Eva: Proposition. Fifka Petr: Against the proposal. Fischerová Romana: Proposition. Against the Josef. Foldyna Jaroslav: Pro pro proposition. Fridrich Stanislav. Fridrich Stanislav: Excused. Gazdík Petr: Against the proposal. Golasowský Pavla: Against the proposal. Haas Karel: Against the proposal. Hájek Jiří: Against the proposal. Hájek Martin: Against the proposal. Hanzlíková Jana: For a proposal. Havel Matěj Ondřej: Against the proposal. Havlíček Karel: For the proposal. Havránek Jiří: Against the proposal. Helebrant Tomáš: For a proposal. Heller Šimon: Against the proposal. Hendrych Igor: For a proposal. Hofmann Jan: Against the proposal. Horák Jiří: Against the proposal. hrnčíř Jan: Excused. Jáč Ivan: For the proposal. Jakob Jan: Against the proposal. Janda Jakub, excused. Janulík Miloslav: Excused. Marie I'm omluvený. Juchelka Aleš: Proposition. Jurečka Marian: Against the proposal. Kaňkovský Vít: Against the proposal. Kasal David: Proposition. kašník Pavel: Against the proposal. Kettner Zdeněk: For a proposal. Klíma Pavel: Against the proposal. Knechtová Lenka: Proposition. Kobza Jiří: For a proposal. Kocmanová Klára: Against the proposal. Kohajda Michael: Against the proposal. Kohoutek Tomáš: For a proposal. Kolář Ondřej: Against the proposal. Collo-Return Martin: For a proposal. Koten Radek: For a proposal. kott Josef: For the design. Kovářová Věra: Against the proposal. King Václav: Against the proposal. králíček Robert: Proposition. Karel: Against the proposal. Krutáková Jana: Against the proposal. Kubíček Roman: For a proposal. Kubík Jan: For the proposal. Kučera Michal: Against the proposal. kuchař Jan: Against the proposal. Kukla Martin: Proposition. Kupka Martin: Against the proposal. Lacina Jan: Against the proposal. Lang Hubert: Proposition. Langšádlová Helena: Against the proposal. I beg you to be quiet, colleagues and colleagues. Vladimíra Vladimira: Pro proposition. Letocha Petr: Against the proposal. Levko Jarmila: Against the proposal. Petr Excuse Liška. Lochman Ondřej: Against the proposal. Mádlová Ivana: Proposition. major Martin: Against the proposal. Little Tatiana: Proposition. Maříková Karla: Proposition. Mašek Jiří: For a proposal. Metnar Lubomír: For a proposal. Michálek Jakub: Against the proposal. Mračková Vildumetzová Jana: Pro pro proposition. Müller Tomáš: Against the proposal. Munzar Vojtěch: Against the proposal. Nacher Patrik: For a proposal. Naiclerová Hana: Against the proposal. He Navrátil Jiří: Against the proposal. Němečková Crkvenjaš Zdenka: Against the proposal. Novák Marek: For a proposal. Nováková Nina: Against the proposal. New Miloš: Against the proposal. Specialist Monika: For a proposal. Ochodnická Martina: Against the proposal. Okamura Hayato: Against the proposal. Okamura Tomio: Proposition. Okleštěk Ladislav: For a proposal. Olšáková Eliška: Against the proposal. Opltová Michaela: Against the proposal. Oulehlová Renata: For a proposal. Ožanová, Jane Zuzana: Proposition. Pastuchová Jana: For a proposal. Pekarová Adamová Markéta: Against the proposal. Against the proposal. Peštová Berenicka: For the proposal. Petrtýl František: For a proposal. Philipp Tom: Against the proposal. Pivoňka Vaňková Pavla: Against the proposal. pokorný Jermanová Jaroslava: For the proposal. Marie I'm omluvený. Potůčková Lucie: Against the design. Pražák David proposal. Quittová Petra: Excuse me. Rais Karel: Proposition. Rakušan Vít: Against the proposal. Rataj Michael: Against the proposal. Ratiborský Michal: For a proposal. Richter Jan: Proposition. Richterová Olga: Against the proposal. He Rozvoral Radek: For a proposal. Růžička Pavel: For a proposal. ryba Drahoslav: For the design. [[23.50 hours]] sadovskýý Petr: For a proposal. Salvetr Rudolf: Against the design. Schillerová Alena: Proposition. The power of Jan: For the design. Skopeček Jan: Against the proposal. Sládeček Karel: For a proposal. slavík Jiří: Against the proposal. Smetana Karel: Against the design. Staněk Pavel: Against the proposal. Stanjura Zbyněk: Against the proposal. strýček Jiří: Proposition. Stržínek a proposal. Svoboda Bohuslav: Against the proposal. Svoboda Pavel: Against the proposal. Šafránková Lucie: For a proposal. Šebelová Michaela: Against the proposal. Šimek David: Against the proposal. špičák Julius, excused. Štefanová Iveta: Proposition. Štolpa David: Proposition. telek Róbert: Against the proposal. Antonín Tesařík: Against the design. tureček Karel: For a proposal. Turek Libor: Against the proposal. Urbanová Barbora: Against the proposal. Válek Vlastimil: Against the proposal. Válková Helena: Proposition. Vích Radovan: For the proposal. Vlček Lukáš: Against the proposal. voborský Milada: Against the proposal. Vojtko Viktor: Against the proposal. Free Jan: For a proposal. Vomáčka Vít: Against the design. Vondráček Radek: For a proposal. vondrák Ivo: Not present. Excuse me. Vrána Petr: For a proposal. Excellent Marek: Against the proposal. Wenzl Lubomír: For a proposal. Wenzl I'm sorry. Zajíčková Renáta: Against the proposal. zborovský Miroslav: Against the proposal. zlínský Vladimír: Proposition. zuna Michal: Against the proposal. žáček Pavel: Against the proposal. Ženíšek Marek: Against the proposal. Adamec Ivan: Against the proposal. Adámková Věra: For the proposal. - I'm sorry. [[Let's hear it.]] Babišová Andrea: Proposition. Babka Ondřej: Proposition. Bačíková Jana: Against the proposal. Balaš Vladimír: Against the proposal. Balaštíková Margita: Proposition. I'm gonna ask you to keep your voice down one more time, co-workers, co-workers. Bartoš Ivan: Against the proposal. Bartošek Jan: Against the proposal. Bašta Jaroslav: For a proposal. Bauer Jan: Against the proposal. Baxa Martin: Against the proposal. Beitl Petr: Against the proposal. Bělica Josef'm sorry. Bělobrádek Pavel: Also excused. Bělohlávková Romana: Against the proposal. Bělor Roman: Against the proposal. Benda Marek: Against the proposal. Bendl Petr: Against the proposal. Benešík Ondřej: Against the proposal. Berki Jan: Against the proposal. Berkovcová Jana: Pro pro proposition. Berkovec Stanislav: For a proposal. Bernard Josef: Against the design. Blaha Stanislav: Against the proposal. Blažek Pavel: Against the proposal. Brabec Richard: Proposition. For a proposal. Brož Lubomír: For a proposal. Bureš Jan: Against the proposal. Bžoch Jaroslav'm sorry. Carbol Jiří: Against the proposal. Cogan Josef: Against the design. Černochová Jana: Against the proposal. černý Oldřich: Proposition. Decroix Eva: Against the proposal. Dostálová Klára: Proposition. Dražilová Lenka: Proposition. This is what we all voted for. I wonder if all Members have been read or if there are any doubts about the course of the vote? [[No objections.]] I therefore ask the verifier to tell me what time they need to find out the result of the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u392	We need 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-18-ps2021-051-02-001-001.u393	Fifteen minutes. Since it takes 15 minutes, it's 23.57, I'm interrupting negotiations within 12 minutes of midnight.
