ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-004-062.u1	62. Members of Josef Bernard, Markéta Pekarová Adamová, Olga Richterová, Martin Baxa and Jana Pastuchová's proposal to issue a law amending Act No. 89/2012 Sb., Civil Code, as amended, and other related laws /house print 241/ - first reading As I have already said, we have once again interrupted this point in the general debate today. I see that Mr Josef Bernard and Mr Aleš Dufek, as rapporteur for first reading, have already taken positions at the rapporteur's table. So we will now continue the interrupted debate. We have interrupted Mrs Nina Nováková's speech. I'd like to ask her if she could continue. At the same time, I ask all present in the hall to keep their voice down, or to take care of everything necessary outside the Chamber. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-004-062.u2	Mr President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to reread the whole list, but I just want to say once again, after the pause in my speech, that there has been a proposal in the KDU-ČSL club that we believe is fully saturated with all legitimate needs. I stress the word justified because they are logical and actually come to meet homosexual couples who are determined to live together permanently and in a faithful union. The fact that this is not going to go so easily that we simply propose an amendment to the Civil Code with which the petitioners come, that it will just correct something, as said here in the morning, and that something will be fine there, except that we can have doubts about what is really serious about it, so I would allow myself here to demonstrate what everything is, if we pay attention to wanting to accommodate homosexual couples to live peacefully and contently and without any concern, so which other laws are affected by it. I ended up changing the Civil Code. And all of this is included in our proposal. Furthermore, the amendment of the Act on special proceedings of the courts, the amendment of the Code of Enforcement, the amendment of the Act of Insolvency, the amendment of the Act on Foreign Service, the amendment of the Act on the City of Prague, the amendment of the Act on Pension Insurance, and here I think I would like to recommend your attention, the Act on Pension Insurance, the amendment of the Act on sickness insurance, the amendment of the Act on the granting of benefits to persons with disabilities, the amendment of the Act on the organisation and implementation of social security, the amendment of the Act on the Living and existent Minimity, the amendment of the Act on aid in material distress. And the last three - amendment of the Act on State Social Support, amendment of the Act on Public Health Insurance and amendment of the Labour Code. This is all included in the draft amendment to the Registered Partnership Act, where we replace the registered partnership with the word partnership. In conclusion, I would therefore like to say, I hope that I have also justified this, that I cannot support the amendment to the Civil Code to go to second reading. There's no excuse for others not to support it. [[Supported?]] I would like it either to be returned to the process or not to advance to the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-004-062.u3	Thank you, Madame. Mr Bernard is in favour of this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-004-062.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Very briefly. Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with the broader agreement that has been made with club representatives, and on the scale of the issue we are discussing, I propose that we extend the deadline for discussions in the clubs by 60 days. At the same time, because I may no longer have the opportunity, the conclusion of the hearing is coming up, so I want to thank everyone, but I really want to thank all the clubs for the factual and, apart from some exceptions, the cultivated debate on this issue. Really personally, I was surprised we made it this way with a little gratification. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-004-062.u5	Thank you. So I am writing to myself, Mr President, to propose at the end to extend the deadline by 60 days. Thank you. I'd like another one of your duly registered, and this is Mr. Šimon Heller. He's not here, so I'll erase it. Then Mr. Jan Berki. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-004-062.u6	Dear Vice-President, dear colleagues, this time I will be a little longer and I apologize, I will, which is not my custom, read more, and this is because I have tried to really listen, understand, perceive, and so I have written notes so that I can comment on the concerns and warnings that are being raised here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-004-062.u7	I'd like everyone in this room to keep their voice down. One more time, please, colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-004-062.u8	Please don't take some of my counterarguments as an attack. It's really thinking about what I've heard. The first such area is the institution of marriage, its duration and references to history. I confess that after my colleague Haas' performance, I began to google what was written on the insoles. Undoubtedly, marriage is a long-term institute, but it is also undoubtedly an institute whose legal framework has changed significantly over that time. And when some historical events, or periods or periods of marriage, have been mentioned here, I think most of us wouldn't want to live in some of those stages. The second question, which is often raised here, is the question of roles and upbringing. I think that, first of all, if I accept this concept and the term, the role of a woman and her position shows that it is changing, that it is not something that is stable in history, which has its development, and I firmly hope that we all see it as positive. I agree, without a doubt, that education is linked to patterns. I agree that a child is to meet patterns of different kinds. But kids don't live in isolation. They meet them in their wider family, meet them in the local community, kindergarten, playground, scout, other leisure activities. And let's face it, they certainly meet positive and negative patterns regardless of their orientation. Each of us knows a child who hopes he won't take a role model from his parents. Because the transfer of values simply doesn't matter about gender, the orientation of the person, but about personal qualities. From my family, and I have one of my stepdaughter parents, I take it that parents are loving, supportive, caring and giving values, and that I should be decent, honest, thinking, hardworking. And that I should try, even though sometimes I'm not going to be able to do it. [[18.10 hours]] In response to some of the contributions, I would like to read part of the statement: Creating a non-discriminatory environment also has a positive effect on the whole of society, not just on those individuals that it directly affects. In conclusion, we would like to summarize that concerns about the good of children growing up with two mothers or fathers are unfounded and the opening of the institution of marriage to identical sex couples can have a positive impact on the concerns of especially young lesbians and gays from family or collective reception and their overall mental health. - This was the opinion and the conclusion of the opinion written by a child psychologist and a member of the Department of Psychology of the Faculty of Arts of Charles University and a researcher from the Department of Sociology of the Faculty of Social Sciences of Charles University, which was co-signed by the Presidium of the Association of Marriage and Family Counselors of the Czech Republic, the Committee of the Professional Chamber of Social Workers, the Alliance of Alternative Families of the Czech Republic, the Chair of the Expert Society of Practical Children's Physicians of the Czech Medical Society, the Head of the Doctor of the Department of Paediatric and Pediatric Psychiatry Psychiatrics of the Faculty Hospital Brno, the head of the Department of Children's Psychiatry of Thomayer Hospital. The last question is the question of the traditions of Christian conservative values. It was actually said several times, what is written in the law, and I asked myself, who reads the Civil Code before we were married? Why do people marry? I guess most consider it a natural next stage and at the same time a level, in terms of a higher level, of their relationship. They not only express their feeling, their respect, but also publicly accept their obligations to each other, and certainly it is that marriage and its institute protect each other's husbands and their children where the children are. Rainbow families exist. And here I would remind the President of the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, who said at the conference yesterday: By not wanting to describe the existing phenomenon, this phenomenon will not cease to exist. Let me also share a personal story from the parish. After one Mass, we had a meeting at the rectory, and a parishioner came to me and said: "You are the MP - she is a long-time foster mom - I have a few impulses for you to foster. We made an appointment, and then she said to me, "Why don't you take a baby too?" And I didn't know what she knew or didn't know about me, so I'm like, you know, it's not exactly easy in my situation. And she says to me, "Why? You gays can be good parents, too. And I'm like, "My problem is that I don't want to be alone in a thing like this." And for example, the current adjustment would still not solve the situation, even if I wasn't alone, what would happen if something happened to me. I just want to declare that the approach to this, of course, you can give examples as extreme, extreme, dangerous, but I think that the approach in most people, as in normal families, is simply responsible. In connection with the very nature of marriage, for example, the Evangelical vicar, the hospital chaplain, also spoke as an emphasis on the relationship. For example, in their church they are having this discussion very seriously, and it is to protect both the parishioners who want to bless the same sex couples and those who do not want to. They say it's possible. They don't order anyone, and they leave it to everyone to consider what they think is important. Which, by the way, shows that the discussion is really in the society, even in the Christian society. David Cameron, as the conservative Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, said, and here I will paraphrase again: Conservatives believe in relationships that bind us. They believe that society is stronger when we commit to supporting each other. So I don't support gay marriage despite being a conservative. I support him because I'm a conservative. I'm not saying that all conservatives are supposed to have that opinion. And like me, I'm not a demonstration Catholic, I guess some conservatives are gonna protest a little if David Cameron was a demonstration conservative. I'm just showing that this discussion is really farther away than some people sometimes look. And the last question is the carrier: should we continue reading at the amendment to the Civil Code, or should we get to any other proposal? I would like to intercede for the second reading of the amendment to the Civil Code. And what makes me say that? Well, it's easier to edit our proposal at second reading, and that's because there aren't that many clash areas. It deals with this in a simpler way, and as my colleagues have already declared, none of us are resisting the debate, and I confirm this to all those who have been to me during the negotiations. My second reason is the personal one. In fact, if you continue to insist that the law on registered partnerships will be amended - although I perceive your shift positively, and I am now addressing my colleagues and colleagues from the People's Party - you are still separating me into a special law. And if we're talking about a sensitive marriage name, yes, I understand it's sensitive to both sides, but the signal that you still need to separate me out of the Civil Code is just sensitive to me. [[Munzar disagrees with his head.]] You, my colleague Munzar, through the Vice-President, can argue that this is not the case. I'm explaining to you why I'm interrogating myself for letting go of the Civil Code amendment. Thank you, if you've listened, you've tried to see my point of view as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-004-062.u9	Thank you, Mr Member, and please another, at this time the last one entered into the debate, and this is Mr Navrátil. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-004-062.u10	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, let me start by thanking you all. He thanked you for the debate that is taking place here at this first reading. I also thank you for realizing that this is already a law with the people who are with you in this House. It was always about us, but without us. You know publicly that Honza and I have signed up for our orientation, and we all have a different view of it. Yes, this is about the matter of ethics, the matter of opinion, the matter of action. I personally had a big campaign for the registered partnership law before 2006. We never heard from our community back then that we wanted something in the Civil Code. We wanted a registered partnership law back then. We had a big campaign back then, a campaign to help somebody, not to hurt anybody. [[18.20 hours]] Seventeen years have passed. But before this law was passed, he had his birthing pains. It wasn't exactly easy. He passed the House, passed the Senate, and the President of the Republic Václav Klaus vetoed it at the time, did not sign it and returned it to the Chamber of Deputies. At that time 101 votes were sought for the approval of this law. At the time, the President of the Republic also opposed the fact that the law had only 86 votes which had been adopted. The first vote took place. The first vote on the President's veto was March 15, 2006 and had to be voted three times. Even then, the president's veto was not overruled at the first time. In the first vote on the President's veto, 97 Members voted against the veto. The second vote, because the first one was declared and called into question, was voted by 102 Members. This, too, was called into question and finally, by the third vote, the law was passed. It was 101 Members who approved the Act on Registered Partnerships in 2006. Seventeen years have passed. Seventeen years - when I would say if I took it in human life when this law came into being. And there were many mistakes in it. When I look at the performance of, for example, the President of Prague Pride Česlav Valek - they talk about the fact that their lawyer passed the entire law on registered partnerships and found differences with marriage in 105 paragraphs. One hundred and five paragraphs are different. One hundred and five paragraphs are down to law school. The more basic ones, for example, concern adoptions, community property, registered partners have no right to a widow's and widow's pension. It also affects housing: when a partner buys a cooperative apartment, only one of them can be a member of the cooperative. But there are more detailed differences. For example, when someone is a member of the security forces, whether a soldier or a policeman, there are even greater differences. Their husbands and wives are being retired in the so-called heterosexual relationship, and this is not at all the case with registered partners. And then there's the word "marriage." For us as a conservative party of KDU-ČSL marriage is a symbol and important importance. Yes, we're having gay weddings. In Mesopotamia, the churches had the same blessing for marriages between men and women, the same for both partners, i.e. two men. Unfortunately, or thank God, but with a different name, it was never a marriage. The Orthodox Church also allowed two men special church ceremonies, but again it was not a marriage, but it was a so-called brotherhood. Therefore, allow me to say that KDU-ČSL as a conservative party cannot vote in favour of the present law. It has been said several times in this hall, and not only from KDU-ČSL, that the problem is for us the name, i.e. marriage. The second point, why we cannot vote, is the issue of a broad spread in the field of children. However, KDU-ČSL is not a rigid party that some might think of - we are also aware that we have several gays and lesbians in our midst, they are our members, they are not excluded from our community, from our side, so today we have tabled a House proposal, a House document under number 2829. We want to straighten out rights that do not concern children, but concern those who are now in or wish to enter a registered partnership. However, our task is to completely rename this law as one of the most important things. Register cars, register as athletes, register in political parties and movements, but do not register people and their union. That is why we have a purely partnership as the principal carrier of this law. We reject the formal and bureaucratic message of the name registered. Come in. Each of you in this Chamber of Deputies who married has had his D-day, his beautiful D-day, his wedding day. Yes, we too want to make this possible. Maybe some of you don't know, but if partners want to register today, they have to go to 14 listed matrices. Here I thank - through, and actually I don't have to - the Minister that at least that's what we do in the first step. [[turns to Minister Austrian]] Why do I have to go to 14 listed matrices in 14 regional cities to only walk in front of a registrar and sign a mere paper saying that I want to enter something? We demand and want in our law as KDU-ČSL to be a full ceremony, i.e. before the mayor, the deputy, or appointed member of the office, with the participation of the registrar and, last but not least, witnesses. You know that you get sick abroad, you know that you're on a ship and you can get married in jeopardy? Me and my partner, if I was on a boat and something was going to happen, it was completely forgotten in the law. I can't enter into a registered partnership, in our case, a partnership, because we said only 14 matrices and nowhere abroad. What else is important? In a registered partnership, when you enter it, you both keep your last name because the choice isn't there. And if I want not the same last name, I have to pay for it. Why Don't They Pay Husbands? We also adjust this in our next statement. We got married together, we made a partnership - but why don't we have a common fortune? This is wrong, too. He could have touched this for 17 years. All of you who have married have also extended your family. It's a law, it's a question of so-called brother-in-law. Yes, this is what we want for the partners who make a relationship to enter into a partnership. There are other things - the estate, there are other things - about widow's pensions. And I could talk many and many hours about what's in our proposal. I beg you all to consider today, in a moment's time, over your vote. If you are determined to support today's proposal, please vote for its displacement. But if one of you is just playing to be here, and at third reading, you're thinking of throwing this bill under the table, please do it now. I'm begging you because it's an unnecessary stretch of time and we could discuss what's very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-004-062.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We have three factual points here. Mr Juchelka is the first Member to prepare Mr Berki and then President Benda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-004-062.u12	I also thank Mr Berki and Mr Navrátil for their previous speeches through you. I mean, I respect you very much, just like anyone who's here in this honored Chamber of Deputies. I don't judge any of these 199 honored colleagues here by anything, any sexual orientation and so on, but only by the relationship we have, and I hope we have a very respectable relationship. And I very much appreciate the fact that we have a new press of 2829 here, which my honored colleague here from the Moravian-Silesian region Jirka Navrátil uploaded into the system, we will certainly study it during the ANO movement. So I wanted to thank you very much here for these things. I don't want to do anything at all - and please, let's not do this to separate those people in the House according to their sexual orientation. On the contrary. Depending on how we treat each other, what we're supposed to do in the future, what visions we have here, that's very, very important. And that is why I cannot, of course, vote for the refinition of marriage as proposed at the moment, because I also appreciate the institution of marriage as the institution in which children are born, and I think that marriage is really about the relationship between men and women. Thank you very much. And please let us hear the words of Mr Navrátil, that if we really have any intention of killing it at third reading, with the fact that we are going to move it to second reading at the moment, let us do it now and focus on the time, for example, of printing 2829. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-004-062.u13	Thank you. And Mr Berki, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-004-062.u14	I'm just taking the liberty of responding briefly to my colleague Jirka Navrátil. From my point of view, he beautifully explained why the journey by reading the Civil Code is the easier one. If we want this union of same-sex couples to actually behave with two exceptions, as well as marriage, then it's easier in the Civil Code to say what the two exceptions are than to revise a lot of other laws. So for me, just what Jirka Navrátil said is why I think we should move the amendment to the second reading. It is proposed to extend by 60 days, a long enough time to be able to clarify together which exceptions, for example, may be there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-004-062.u15	Thank you. And the last one, with the actual so far logged in, is President Benda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-004-062.u16	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of all the club members, I propose that we agree that today we will continue to act and vote after 19 or 21 hours, until these two points have been negotiated, that is to say, the House Press 241 and the House Press 276. I consider it fair that we finish today. So that's my procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-004-062.u17	Yes, I understand. So we're going to vote at this point. I'll call my colleagues, my colleagues. Roger that, there's an interest in check-out. I'll ask you to sign up. So, at this point, we will be voting on President Benda's motion to continue today after 19 and after 21 o'clock. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 118, registered 141, for 132, versus 2. Accepted. And since I can't see right now... You wanted to? [[Messenger Kašník on the outside of the microphone says he's not good at voting equipment.]] Isn't there a voting device? You're not questioning the vote? All right, thank you. Since there is no further factual point, I do not see anyone reporting to the general debate, this concludes the general debate. I'm asking President Bernard if he's interested in the final word? No. The rapporteur? Neither do I. At this point, then, honourable Members, we will vote first on the proposal to return the proposal to the applicant for completion, then, if necessary, for rejection. [[Members are arguing in what order to vote.]] Yes, can we continue? Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-004-062.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We would propose a change in the procedure, which would mean that there would first be a vote on rejection, and then, if there were no rejection, there would be a vote back to recast. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-004-062.u19	Mr. Chairman yet?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-004-062.u20	Well, we're not suggesting it ourselves, because if I have the right information, he filed the first - here was the motion to dismiss and he was an MP of SPD Kettner. So, from the logic of the matter first, the rejection should be voted out and it was filed by SPD MP Kettner. So I don't understand why the first motion to return here is to be put to the vote. Because we want to vote for the rejection, and now what about the return, right? Like logically.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-004-062.u21	Yes, I understand, I agree, and we will vote on rejection first. So if we are ready, no one has anything else to add to this, I repeat at this point, we will vote against the motion. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of rejection? Who's against it? Voting number 119, registered 141, for was 58, against was 68. Denied. At this point, we will therefore vote on the proposal to refer the proposal back to the applicant for completion. Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 120, entry 139, in favour was 64, versus 60. Denied. We will therefore now consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed by her decision to order the motion to discuss the constitutionally-legal committee as a committee of guarantee. Is anyone suggesting a commandment to a committee other than as a guarantee? So we're going to take a vote... President Bernard.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-004-062.u22	I propose a permanent committee for family and equal opportunities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-004-062.u23	We're talking about a guarantee. So no. Yes, thank you. We shall therefore proceed to the vote at this time. Who agrees that the proposal submitted should be ordered to discuss the constitutionally-legal committee as a guarantee committee? Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 121, registered 138, in favour of 106, versus 16. Accepted. I therefore note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the constitutionally-legal committee as a guarantee committee. The President of the Chamber of Deputies did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to another committee or committees? Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-004-062.u24	A permanent committee for family and equal opportunities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-29-ps2021-070-03-004-062.u25	Yes, we will vote on whether to bring it to a permanent committee for family and equal opportunities. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? In the vote number 122 entered 139, for was 93, against 19. Result: accepted. At this point, we still need to vote on President Bernard's proposal, which proposes extending the deadline for a 60-day hearing. We can therefore proceed to the vote at this time. I'm initiating it and asking who's 60 days ahead of the deadline? Who's against it? In vote number 123 entered 141, for 132, against 1. Result: accepted. So we've exhausted everything. Thank you for your cooperation, and we can go to item 74. Before that, I will read my apologies - Mr Faltýnek from 9 to 13 o'clock for work reasons and then from 18 for family reasons, Mr Klíma, who takes back his apology for the whole day for work reasons, Mr Ondřej Lochman from 18 to 19.30 o'clock for work reasons, Mr Lubomír Metnar from 18 o'clock for work reasons, Mr Jan Richter all the day for work reasons, Minister Hladík, who takes back his apology from 18 o'clock for work reasons, and once again Mr Hladík, who takes back his apology within 15 hours for work reasons, canceling Mr Kobza's apology. And with twenty-three, there was one of you, and I didn't write down who was here now. Yes, I see. Right, Mr. Mr. Kolář. So we can start point number
