ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u1	110. Oral inhalation which are addressed to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic and other members of the Government. First of all, I will state how sorry it is for Mr Kobza to apologize at 14 o'clock for work reasons and, on the contrary, Mr Jan Lipavskýý withdraws his apology, so he will be present. And today, with the participation of the verifier, the ranking of Members was drawn, in which they will perform and submit oral interviews first to Prime Minister Petr Fiala or the Government of the Czech Republic and then to other members of the Government. The lists of Members according to the winning order have been distributed to you in the benches. I would like to point out to both the intersecting Members and those intersected by the members of the Government that, immediately after the end of the intersecting on the apologized Prime Minister, the interspersing on the members of the Government will follow. And now I give the floor to Mr Martin Kukl, who was first drawn to present his oral interview with the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Petr Fiala, and Mrs Jaroslava Pokorná Jermanová will prepare herself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u2	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, dear colleagues. I have an interview for the Prime Minister. I'm sorry he's not here. I'm sorry there's almost an empty O.R. My interpellation is about the deštník versus the Expensive. I've had many visits to the MP's office, and one such example, the Umbrella versus the Delicate. I've been approached by husbands, seniors, one disability pensioner or an invalid senior, one old-age pensioner, and they have a problem. They've got a family house, they've got coal heaters in the family house. The heating thanks to the boiler subsidies was converted into solid fuel, into pellets, and, of course, nowadays, when we look at the prices, the family house was heated by about 20,000 for coal, nowadays the house is heated by over CZK 100,000 per year. So they said they're gonna use the deštník against the expensive and they're gonna help them. So they went to the Labor Office, where they stood up to the front, and there they found that the Umbrella didn't apply to them, because even though they submitted invoices that they were buying pellets, and the cheapest in the region, for some 13,000 a ton, and they proded them for the winter of some 7 tons, so they found that solid fuel was normal, namely CZK 1,843 per month. So the Bureau calculated it so that they weren't entitled to support. [[President: Please, your time has expired to present an interview.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u3	Otherwise, the Prime Minister shall be duly excused and shall reply in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days if he finds the question. And with the next interview, a Member of Jaroslava Pokorná Jermanová will perform, which was drawn second. Mrs Lucie Šafránková will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u4	Good afternoon, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I intend to interpel the Prime Minister on the sale of state property, and since he is excused for today, I will withdraw my intervention and ask for a point on the House's agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u5	Thank you, that's your right, of course. Mrs Lucie Šafránková is ready next and then Mr Radek Koten will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u6	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear absent Prime Minister, I am addressing you in the matter of repeated serious failure of your government - the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, headed by Minister Marian Jurečka and the Czech Social Security Administration. For the third time in one year, all these institutions have fundamentally damaged all pensioners who are in execution or insolvency. It is about 70,000 people in a serious social situation. What's going on? For the third time in one year in the entire first half of last year, then last October and last January, you failed to ensure that these elderly, disabled, widows, widows and orphans were reflected in the increase of the so-called unforgivable amount for executions and insolvencys also up to their pensions, and you deprived them of up to thousands of crowns a month to which they were legally entitled. It was always about the fact that even though the government's order increased this unforgivable amount from the following month, the Czech Social Security Administration allegedly failed to process this administratively due to a lack of time and sent these tens of thousands of pensioners much less money than they had under applicable legal standards, and instead of pensioners, the bailiffs received this money. This is particularly scandalous because it has happened three times in one year, indicating the extraordinary managerial inability and irresponsibleness of your government to people in an existential threat, who count literally every crown every month. Dear Prime Minister, what will be the consequences of this failure? And most importantly, how do you return to the elderly the money that they own and that you have deprived them of by your incompetence and violation of the law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u7	Thank you for keeping time. The President shall be excused and shall reply in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. Mr Radek Koten will also appear and Mr Marek Novák will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u8	Thank you for the floor. Dear absent Prime Minister, I would like to ask you in this form how and whether the government has already decided to liquidate the airport in Líny in the Pilsen Region, because we have been discussing here this morning - and so you were not present because of the trip - so we have been discussing the amendment of the law and actually pushing it in a terrible way to discuss it as quickly as possible, and on the other hand, you want to eliminate the airport, which has a relatively long runway, which is also used by the army, uses it and the rescue service, and you want to cancel it without compensation. Because if we were to put it straight here, building an airport like this would cost a lot of money, but on the other hand, given the laws and regulations in the European Union, there must be another statement, there must also be the approval of the population, there must be someone against it, so that they do not have any noise, so basically a substitute airport for this destroyed airport is virtually impossible to build somewhere nowadays. So in this situation, you're going to cancel the airport that the military is using, and it really seems to me like some kind of private financial interest of another minister who decides, and you're going against the citizens in that location, against the military, and actually against the local people who have the airport there. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u9	Thank you, even for keeping up with the time, and for presenting the interpelation. Of course, it will be answered in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. And we will proceed to the interview of Mr Marek Novák and prepare Mrs Věra Adámková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mr. absent Prime Minister, in the middle of last year, you announced discussions which, with the participation of stakeholders, should lead to a consensus on future regulation in the area of assessing the security reliability of suppliers in the strategically important electronic communications infrastructure. It is February 2023 and, according to my information, no such discussion has yet taken place or taken place. The preparation of legislation was to be entrusted to the Security Council of the State by the National Cyber Security Authority, but unfortunately no further activity is visible on the outside. [[14.40 hours]] Given the fundamental problem, I really ask you to look into it, since I also have a letter at my disposal that the Chamber of Commerce has addressed you with an offer to create an inter- resolution working group on the issue of safety regulation. The aim of the chamber is to prevent a number of complications and reduce the prevailing uncertainty about the legislation under preparation. I would like to ask whether you will continue to support the emergence and functioning of this inter- resolution working group on cybersecurity regulation and what to do, Prime Minister, next and when to do. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u11	Thank you and I once again conclude that the Prime Minister is excused. He shall answer in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. I will now ask Mrs Věra Adámková to prepare Mr Hubert Lang. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u12	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to present my intervention on the Prime Minister of this country. I turn to him because we still hear that the government decides as a whole body, so because it affects the problems of several ministries. I demand an answer to the clear concept of government for training children from third countries, because we have regionally large problems that the government does not solve, which is simply not addressed by the Ministry or the government as a whole. This is also the fact that at the second stage of some state school, I warn, are classes which have more than 30 pupils, where there is more than half of pupils not speaking Czech. Second grade school. I must say that we have, of course, a Vietnamese community that is very responsible for the education of its children. So it's a specific case. A 13-year-old boy lands on Monday at Ruzyně, does not speak Czech and is in class on Wednesday. That would be fine if there were two, three. But there are more than 50 percent of them. In such a class, I think he would only like to teach kamikaze because it is catastrophic. I want to know when the government will fulfil the legal obligation, that is 130 percent of the average regional wage. If we now have an average wage of over 46,000 in Prague, I suppose it is clear that a teacher with at least three years of practice will already have 60,000 without further learning, without additional overtime. I'm sure that's not true. The government here doesn't meet the demands that are imposed on it and which it has to do. So I ask for a clear answer as to what the government concept for these schools is, how these very difficult conditions for educators will be taken into account, because they are also burdensome in the impact on the education of Czech children. You can imagine a class, it's a bag of fleas. We have there an absolute majority of children who do not speak Czech, and there are two other assistants to children who need help. So I don't think the government is doing it. It is unsatisfactory, it is catastrophic, and if we do not pay attention to education in primary schools, what do you want to do next? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u13	Thank you for submitting your interview, it will be answered in writing within 30 days. Now, Mr Hubert Lang, Mr Martin Kolovratník will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u14	Thank you. Dear absent Prime Minister, my question is simple. Do you really want to resign and throw a towel in the ring? Why do I say that? Yesterday I watched your beautiful show on CNN Prima News called "What's the Prime Minister"? There were a few things that lifted me up. For example, Mr Fiala said: "We do not do populist politics. Populist politics was held here by the previous government for seven years and Mr. Andrej Babiš." So the obsession with Babiš again. Another statement from you: "The government is acting responsibly. Our unpopular steps have been understood and accepted. We are sending signals to the public, although unpopular steps must be taken." Another statement: "The YES movement wants to compete with extremists. So far, he's only populist, but he's heading towards extremism." Another sentence: "The YES movement is dangerous, it begins to turn to radical rhetoric." I'm asking, are those what, these statements? Am I to fear that in the next report on extremism, which will be published next year, the ANO movement will be included among extremist entities? A movement that has 72 Members, a movement that has chosen a huge number of people, a movement that is successful? What is this, please? Prime Minister, do you realize that your government has a 3.8 rating, so a better four? It's the worst rating in 12 years. You failed in the assessment of politicians. You know who comes first? Mr. Babiš comes first. Who's in second place? In second place is the extremist Okamura. Who's in third place? A Zeman you hate so much that you'd like to get rid of. And you're in fourth place. Prime Minister Fiala, throw a towel in the ring, we'll have another handshake, we'll reconstruct the government, or we'll head for early elections. But not like this, please. So I know how you're gonna answer me...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u15	Thank you. Once again, it shall be answered in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. I will now ask Mr Martin Kolovratník, and then Mrs Karla Maříková will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u16	Thank you for the words, I will follow up on the speaker Hubert Lang at the beginning of the performance. That's exactly it. Prime Minister Fiala curses everywhere Andrej Babiš, thunders as we are extremists, ideally emptied, as we do not work. TOP 09 was putting pictures on the network today, like Andrej Babiš isn't here. Interpelations to the Prime Minister - and there's no Prime Minister. I do not have statistics here, ladies and gentlemen, but if I remember from the last parliamentary term, Andrej Babiš was very often and very careful to see that he was present and dealt with by opposition Members at that time. So much for an introduction. But now my interpellation. I would like to ask you, Mr. absent Prime Minister, about the Ministry of Transport's budget. I have already proposed and asked for a new point here at the House plenary twice at the end of January and yesterday on the subject of the Uncertain Budget of the Ministry of Transport and the Budget of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. Surprisingly - I say this in quotation marks and ironically - I have not been heard by the coalition and this item has not been included in the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. That's why I have no choice but to ask you. I will mention the very well-known one, but unfortunately, the false accounting trick of Minister Stanjura and Minister Kupky, who, while reporting in the media, reports that transport has a little over 150 billion,150.9, available, but in fact CZK 30.7 billion is still not covered. We still do not know to this day whether this money will be obtained by transport from its own bonds issued by the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure or from a loan with the European Investment Bank, and what the parameters of the loan will be. When you promised to sort it out in the fall, we waited. It's mid-February now. That's why I have two questions. The first one: Wouldn't it be easier and more transparent if the State borrowed the money directly through the Ministry of Finance? Second question: Wouldn't it be better if additional funding for the SFDI was provided by the State through the Ministry of Finance and the State Fund was not working with this until next year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u17	Thank you. It shall be answered in writing again in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. Now, Mrs Karla Maříková, and Mr Martin Kolovratník will be ready again. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u18	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear absent Prime Minister, you said in May that you would not raise taxes because you thought it was wrong. You said it was good for people and businesses to have more money. By raising taxes, we take more money from people, then the state consumes it, dissolves it, and redistributes it differently. It is better for society, the economy and the state when money is available to people and companies. In November last year, you expressed yourself in a similar way with the exception of war tax, which is temporary and applies to unexpected and extraordinary profits of companies in energy and banking. You added that in this situation, you consider it more correct for people to leave money behind. They can do better than that, you pointed out. What about it: it's February 2023, it's after the presidential election, and the government is no longer hiding its steps, no longer pretending and fooling citizens. Possibly property, businessmen, building savings, alcohol and cigarettes. Probably from January 1st next year - Zbyněk Stanjura za ODS, Minister of Finance, is no longer hiding - taxes in the Czech Republic will change significantly. Prime Minister, how about a 180-degree turn on government citizens? Not to mention your voters because you lied to people. It's not just about raising taxes. On the official website of the ODS, on November 10, 2022, an interview was published from the programme Ptám, where you promised that the current government would not increase the retirement age. Today, the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Markéta Pekarová Adamová, or the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka, is officially talking about increasing the retirement age. Why again, Prime Minister, have you lied and fooled the citizens?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u19	Thank you, even for keeping time. I am now once again stating that it will be answered in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days in writing. Already going to the counter Mr. Martin Kolovratník with another interview. Mr Radek Koten will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u20	So good thing we have the Rules of Procedure and we will have written answers from the Prime Minister, and we are looking forward to them very much. And my second subject, Prime Minister Fialo, concerns your government's personnel policy, specifically the Ministry of the Environment. We all know Mr. Hladík's case, his exchange for Secretary Alena Hubáčková. When I made several comments in the autumn in the media, I said that KDU-ČSL is simply empty, a staff-empty coalition party, that Marian Jurečka is running everything, and that, unfortunately, is the end of it. Sadly, the truth, the reality is still true today, almost halfway through February. Let me just remind you that the Prime Minister finally gave his coalition partner - you, as Prime Minister, gave KDU-ČSL, that is, of course, your full right. You are responsible for the coherence of the coalition and for the government as a whole. You decided to address Miloš Zeman with an appointment, and we all know that President Miloš Zeman refused, and what reasons he had for that. We understand that you, as Prime Minister, are now waiting for a new president, but at this point, Prime Minister, I do not understand what you're saying. Everywhere in the media, we hear that Petr Pavel is not a pro-government candidate for the Castle, that the government does not support him. Even Mr. newly elected, and in March he will be inaugurated, President Petr Pavel also says that he is not a pro-government candidate. However, Petr Hladík is in office at the Ministry under the mandate he has as Deputy Minister. You are obviously waiting for Petr Pavel to take up his duties with everything, and you assume automatically - in fact, Prime Minister, in the media - that Petr Pavel will then appoint him. I think he implied he wouldn't have a problem with it. So I ask, is he really, or isn't Mr. Petr Pavel a pro-government candidate who's coming your way? And the second question: Will Mr. Hladík be a deputy at the Ministry of the Environment for a month, at least a month, or will you find someone else? [[Time.]] [[Time.]] [[Time, please.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u21	I beg you to keep your time. Thank you for the interpellation. Again, I will state that it will be answered in writing. And now, with two interpelations, Mr Radek Koten. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u22	Thank you, Madam President, for the floor. Dear Prime Minister absent, today's second interview, this time I'm going to focus on the election vows of the SPOLU coalition, so I have a few of yours - this is how I'm going to point to the camera - I have a few of your statements, so-called banners and billboards that you placed during the election campaign, about not raising taxes and so on. Well, now that we see it, even some of your leaders, now the Minister of Finance, Mr. Stanjura, maybe he's here: having a place to live isn't a luxury. Yeah, right here. Well, now you want to raise the real estate tax to that account, so the SPOLU voters have really won the Darwinův Prize now. And it can be said that the other taxes that you are planning now - that is, after the presidential election, because President Pavel was your candidate - of course you want to raise taxes and tradesmen, income tax, and that is the very group of people who are creating values here, among other things, and he doesn't want anything from the state, he doesn't want sick leave, he doesn't have any vacations, he doesn't have anything, and you want to raise taxes to them here. Well, of course, the excise taxes you want to raise to other things, cigarettes, alcohol, that's what the finance minister always does when he's running out of funds. But you had one other motto: "The insatiable state needs a diet, not higher taxes." These are your pre-election declarations, so as usual, you've cheated people. So I'd like to hear from you what you're going to do about it. Are you really gonna raise, or are you gonna cheat on these people? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u23	Thank you, so it was one of your interpelations, and now you're entitled to an interpellation with the other, Mr. Ambassador, and they'll both be answered in writing within 30 days. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u24	Thank you, Madam President. I kind of confusedly left because I didn't realize I wasn't looking at the board. Anyway, my next question to the Prime Minister today is the Presidency of the Czech Republic in the European Union. Among other things, Green Deals and various other things, electromobility, ban on internal combustion engines by 2035 and so on, but most of all I would like to know, because there was a European loan going through there for Ukraine, and under your Presidency, the loan was somehow approved, but not that the European Union will guarantee it, but that they will guarantee Ukraine's debt that they will actually guarantee individual national states. So I would like to know, I would like you to give me a written reply to this, how the citizens of the Czech Republic are to vouch for the outstanding debts of Ukraine, because there is really a lot of money going there, the last time somewhere between 40 and 50 billion euros. So I wonder how the Czech Republic, the citizens of the Czech Republic, has a stake in the debt, and how these debts will be paid here, because the way in which public funds are handled here, the taxpayers' funds, it's just basically evoking what I said earlier, that the Czech government here actually increases taxes so that it can vouch for the debts here. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u25	Thank you, or we will sum it up: everything will be answered in accordance with the Rules of Procedure in writing within 30 days. At the same time, all applications to the Prime Minister have been exhausted, so oral interpelations will now follow for other members of the government. However, I will also record the apologies received - President Alena Schillerová apologizes from 14.30 pm for work reasons, and also Mr Antonín Tesařík from 15.30 pm for work reasons. And I will now ask Mrs Karla Maříková to present her interpellation to the Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek, and to launch a block of government members' replies to the interpelation of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u26	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear absent minister, I have received a letter, allegedly from the employees of the state company Lorkova villa, which states that exminister of health Adam Vojtěch purchased the hotel Čeladenka in Čeladná for his personal needs and changed the name to luxury Lorkova villa. He says the purchase cost $100 million. Another 20 million costs a year of loss-making operations. Lázně Karlova Studánek has to cover all operational losses of Lorkova villa - 20 million cost investment in adjustments without a selection procedure, 160 million is to be prepared at the Ministry of Health for the spa Karlova Studánek in the upcoming wellness Lorkova villa. I wonder, then, what is the real situation, whether this letter and what is written in it is based on the truth, and whether the audit of both Lorkův's villa and the State Spa of Karlov Studánek will be carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u27	Thank you. Once again, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, it will be answered in writing within 30 days, and the Minister is duly excused. And now I will ask Mrs Vladimíra Lesenská, who was drawn second, to give her oral questioning. Mr. Kamal Farhan may be ready, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u28	Thank you, Madam President, for the floor. Dear Minister Jurečka, I was interested in your interview of 7 February this year, in which you respond to questions from Mr. Pavel Cechl and Jakub Svoboda concerning changes in the pension system. You talked about the age of retirement at 68 and about the distinction between the different demands of professions and when a person comes to the labour market. You calmed our generation, that is, us born before 1973, that change would not affect us, that it would end up with our children. In the interview, you stated: "I am of course fully aware that there are physically demanding professions where there is a problem for people who work in them all their lives to endure up to 65 years of age. " Let alone I say, and it's even worse than 68. I continue to quote: "That is why I want the system to have fair and fair flexibility and to make it clear that if someone started working at 18 years of age and did a demanding profession, he will be able to retire earlier without being reduced, because the employer should pay higher premiums for him, so as not to create a deficit, so as to be a balanced balance sheet. " [[15.00 hours]] Okay, that sounds very nice, but how do you define which professions are challenging so that the employer can pay higher premiums for his employee? For example, will it be a helping force in the kitchen, the cook, the cook, for example, in the cooking room, which must be manipulated by very heavy, full pots? Or will it be the same profession in the luxury kitchen where this is definitely not necessary? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u29	Thank you. The Minister is duly excused. Once again, you will receive your reply in writing within 30 days in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I now say that Mr Kamil Farhan has withdrawn his application. Before we proceed to another interpelation, I will load another apology and it is a change, Minister Helena Langšádlová takes back her apology from 13:00 to 15:00 for work reasons. So the apology is taken back. And we are going to interpel Mrs Pokorná Jermanová and may prepare Mr Igor Hendrych. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u30	Good afternoon. Dear members of the government present, thank you for your presence. I would like to interpel Minister Lipavský, Minister of Foreign Affairs, on a topic that I have been mentioning here all week, and that is the sale of Štiřín Castle. I would like to ask him at what stage it is, how the sale will possibly take place, because I know that, of course, there is a tender procedure, if I may call it that, to other state organisations, and what route they will choose to sell, because those routes are in accordance with the State Property Act, so that we can disprove possible myths that run on social networks. So thank you for the answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u31	I thank you for your time, and now the Foreign Minister Jan Lipavský has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u32	Madam Vice-President, honourable Member, honourable Members, I would like to assure you that the castle of Štiřín will not be sold. It's not a sale. From the point of view of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is the founder of the contribution organization Zámek Štiřín, we have assessed very thoroughly the profitability of this facility and the contribution organization towards the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the main mission of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is logically representing the interests of the Czech Republic on the outside, and we have concluded that we are not using the castle Stiřín sufficiently, as well as that there is money coming from the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which could be used more for what the Ministry is set up for. For this reason, we have approached the Office of State representation in property matters with which we are now preparing the transfer, I do not conceal it, the transfer of the object to its disposition. He's governed by a whole series of laws, and then he'll be at this office to find a suitable user for the object. And I'll admit that it's not really - I don't even see if other authorities, the ministries, would use this object, or if there might be some kind of stage in the loading of the property, and that's what the office has to decide in its own way. So I'm definitely not selling anything, I'm just assessing that we're not using the object. The funds flowing there did not go to foreign policy. When we look at history, actually he went after the revolution under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, until then it probably belonged somewhere under the Ministry of Education. But we just evaluated, and I took that step. I know that there have been some historical controversys about this, and I am aware of it, and I am also glad that it goes to this office, the ÚZSVM, which is once again competent enough to dispose of the property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u33	Thank you and now there is room for an additional question, Madame. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u34	I'd like to thank you for the answer. I know that principle of property management, of course. I'm looking around this property for one simple reason that it's one of our best preserved sights. There was quite a lot invested in it, and there were a lot of sales attempts in the past, which is why I'm interested. It is from my region and I think that surely the government or other facilities under the government have room for use, because in the past it was used for various congresses and so on. I, as the chieftain, used him for international meetings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u35	Thank you and I wonder if the Minister is interested in a reaction? He mít. prosit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u36	Of course I will be glad if there is a suitable use for Štiřín Castle, however in the regime, as it was under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as a separate contribution organization, which offered some discounted in quotation marks of service, so we did not arrive, the model was not found over the long years. 30 to 40 million were flowing every year, even for the investments you mentioned, and for activities that are not really vital from the point of view of the state - we talk about hotel activities, restaurant activities, golf courses, congress tourism. It's possible in some other mode we'll find a way to run it, maybe not. But that won't be the concern of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs anymore, and it won't be my concern. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u37	Thank you. I'll reload my apologies. Mr Milan Wenzl apologizes, and he apologized within 11 hours and then at 13 o'clock, for health reasons. And now it is Mr Igor Hendrych's turn to intervene and Mr Vladimír Zlínský will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u38	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable members of the government, my interpellation to the Minister of Education of Balaš, who is unfortunately absent, concerns information on the process of increasing the wages of academic staff of universities to the level usual in regional education. I know this thing is currently being dealt with. I spoke to Minister Balaš about this a few weeks ago. He is aware of the problem that academics currently have primarily in social sciences, humanities, sometimes 15 000 fewer salaries than in regional education, and it is a matter he considers to be a priority and would like to resolve. I know he's set up a work committee that should deal with this and that he's collecting data. That's information that's about a month old. I'm very interested in this matter, a lot of people are asking me about it. In support of this intention, there was also a petition, which has now been signed by some 1,900 people. The Minister is aware that if this issue is not resolved at some reasonable time, it may threaten the departure of other staff from universities, it may jeopardise the accreditation of disciplines and so on and so on. At this point, I am interested in what stage of the process of settling this situation is currently, how much longer it will take and what basis the Minister has prepared to deal with this situation. The situation is not entirely simple, he knows it, but he is working on it, and I am interested in the ongoing state of work of this committee and also some time frame of output from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u39	Thank you. The Minister is duly excused and you will receive an answer in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. As far as further progress is concerned, Mr Vladimír Zlínský is now in line, Mr Patrik Nacher will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u40	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, dear absent Minister, it is a pity that you are not here, because I will mention an extremely serious question here, which will concern the dramatic decline in birth rate in 2022. I am based on an article by Dr. Tomáš Fürst, published on an inFact server called Dramatic decline in birth rate. I would introduce this person. He is a university educator from Palacký University in Olomouc, I personally know him and he makes me completely trustworthy. In the first nine months of 2022, 10 percent less children were born than in the previous four years. I've got a graph here that I don't think you can see. [[Member Zlínský shows the plenary chart.]] You can look at the server where it's clearly visible. In all the months mentioned, that is, from January to September, there is a noticeable decline. The decline, as I said, is a 10% circus, so the children born in early January had to be conceived sometime at the end of April 2021, and the causes of that decline must therefore be looked for in something that happened in spring 2021. The same picture is also abroad, Sweden, Denmark, Norway and so on. [[15.10 hours]] So I will cut this short, and I will ask, Minister, if you are aware of this problem here, and if the government, in turn, your ministry, is going to examine this in some way in detail, analyse it, and this extremely disturbing phenomenon will attempt to reveal its cause, and take appropriate action on this basis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u41	Once again, you will receive an answer in writing within 30 days. And now it is Mr Patrik Nacher's turn, but since I do not see him present in the hall, the interview is failing. Next up is Mrs Jana Berkovcová and Mr Lubomír Wenzl will be prepared. He's downloading? He's downloading. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u42	Hello, thank you for your word. Dear absent minister, last week your office handed over to the National Education Institute the technical assignment of a revision of the framework education programme for basic education. However, has this occurred with more than six months' delay, and can the originally announced term be reached at all, that six primary schools should start learning according to the new RVP from 1 September 2025? The members of the NPI working groups now have to write a specific form of RVP, but due to a six-month delay they have less time than originally expected. The new framework education programme should be completed this year and the first schools should start teaching in September 2024. That seems pretty unrealistic. After all, enough time is needed to create a new and really good RVP and it is starting to run out. You yourself have repeatedly stressed that this reform is not meant to be formal and it is necessary to create an RVP and, above all, to devote sufficient time to the methodological support of schools. Moreover, schools must also be able to write their new school education programmes, so there is a risk of experience from the first reform that the lack of time will necessarily lead to formality again and there will be no real change in education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u43	Thank you for keeping time. Once again, the Minister is excused and you will receive your reply in writing within 30 days. So now Mr Wenzl has withdrawn his intervention and we can approach Mr Karel Rais's intervention, Mr Zdeněk Kettner will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u44	Thank you. Dear absent minister, I would like to address at least partly the problem that has been on the table for a long time, and that is inclusion. Inclusion means basically inclusion or admission into a whole, and in education it is a process aimed at promoting equal opportunities for children to learn and setting up a system such that the support system, so that all children can learn together without distinction and fulfil their schooling, school attendance together. I think that today there is no discussion at all about whether or not the discussion is to be held, but rather how, how to set it in practice as efficiently as possible and what steps and measures to take to ensure that inclusion takes place naturally, smoothly and without major complications. And that's why I'm interested in some questions. The first question, of course, is financial and that I know the relatively tight budget of the Ministry of Education, and it will probably happen next year. So I'm actually wondering if we're capable or if you're able to tell us what the total cost of inclusion is from kindergarten to primary school. Another problem, which is very topical, is the problem of changing the funding of teachers' assistants in primary schools, because I think it is a very useful tool, but these people are not sure in their own way because there is a so-called parameterization, that is, it is allocated, the funding is allocated according to a certain parameter and the parameter is basically the number, the number of students in the school. So I'd quite like to know your idea of the parametrization and how we're going to stabilize the teachers' assistants, because I think... [[Time, please.]] ... yes, I think it's very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u45	Thank you, and once again the Minister is duly excused, he will answer you in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. We are now approaching Mr Zdeněk Kettner's interpellation. Mrs Helena Válková, who is next registered, may be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u46	Thank you for giving me the floor. I'll be very short. I had an interview prepared for Minister Jurečka, who is not present here, just as he was not last time, so I will not get an oral answer for the second time. If I want to write, I'll do it in writing. I wanted to ask the Minister if he really meant it as regards retirements, later retirements, that's a certain division of those people into a type of different professions according to difficulty. Here we are constantly talking about the distribution of society, how the society is divided. Is the Minister aware that this is another division of society? How are we gonna do that? Either we define the profession exactly after the profession, then it will be x hundred pages of precisely defined occupation and so on. If we do it in areas, I guarantee you it's going to be a huge roar - and why it's him, because I've got it harder, how it's going to be six months, and so on. It just makes me mischief, but I just can't get an oral answer. Anyway, I was going to ask Mr. Rakušan about the escape of refugees from the facility, if, as we continue to feed them here? They're particularly flashing information that they're troubled people, so whether we're gonna feed them here or if we're really gonna deport them to their home countries. I can't even get an answer here. This means that I would expect that when there are oral inhalations, that it will actually answer orally, and not in writing. So, of course, I'm gonna save the interpelations again. I hope to see it within half a year, and I hereby waive the right to a written reply, and I will try to re-speak my intervention at oral interventions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u47	Thank you. I see you don't want a written answer. And I'm just gonna ask, are you downloading the subsequent interpellation to Minister Rakušan? You're downloading, thank you. And now we are going to interpel Mrs Helena Válková, who is not present in the hall, so the interpelation is failing. Mr Lubomír Brož's interpellation is so next. Mr Radek Koten will then be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u48	Thank you, Madam President. My interpellation to Minister Baxa is very simple and brief. As you know, Minister, Prague is building a new building of the Vltava Philharmonic where there should be three new halls. The seat of the Czech Philharmonic should also be there. It's a really big deal. In the middle of last year, the capital Prague, namely the Council, specifically approved the creation of project documentation for this building of the Vltava Philharmonic Orchestra worth about 780 million crowns. This means that the preparations are going very seriously, the winning design from the architectural competition has been chosen and now it is going on. Of course, what is important is the question of funding, because the original costs were estimated at 6 billion, today they are already talking about some 9.5 billion, and as we know from similar cases in the world, these amounts were very often, as in example, the Hamburg Philharmonic Philharmonic, they were given three times as much as the original budget and the original estimate. I want to ask whether there has been negotiations between you, or the Ministry of Culture, with the capital city of Prague on cooperation in the preparation of the project and its implementation, and of course whether there has been a binding position or any promise from the Ministry of Culture of the State, because it was mentioned in the original materials that the city of Prague imagined financing this construction: one third of Prague, one third of the state and one third of the private investor. [[Time, please.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u49	Thank you. Again, the Minister is duly excused, the answer will come in writing within 30 days. Mr Radek Koten will then speak with his intervention and Mrs Eva Fialová will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u50	Thank you for the floor. Dear Mr. unpleasant - sorry, Mr. absent Secretary of the Interior, I would like to focus on a new report on the manifestations of extremism and predicate hatred in today's interview. It is therefore a summary situation report from the second half of 2022. It can be said that it has already been done in the media, I think we will discuss it, the report, and the Security Committee. In any case, as is a good practice in the Ministry of the Interior, the report always appoints representatives in some way or at least a movement of Freedom and Direct Democracy, where it is written in connection with extremism. I do not know what is extreme about the fact that - I will quote here to be sure - that war in Ukraine has become strong themes of the movement and the increase in energy. I think that if we live in a democratic society, the opposition, of course, has every right to criticise the poor progress of government and the stealing of citizens in the Czech Republic. So I have no idea how far the Ministry of the Interior is able to go in its reports, whether, therefore, if it already names us here, namely, whether there will be any witch hunts, even in connection with the fact that the government is preparing legislation on disinformation, the so-called fake news, and wants to give money to nonprofit organizations and journalists for about 150 million crowns of taxpayers. So I'd like you to give me an answer on how the Home Office is drawing up this report. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] [[Time, thank you.]] [[Time's up, please, time's up.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u51	I'd like to ask you very much to keep up the time for interpelation. Of course, it will be answered in writing within 30 days. We now have room for Mrs Eva Fialová, Mrs Jana Hanzlíková will prepare herself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u52	Dear absent Minister, I appeal to you as a representative of the Supreme Authority, which can help prevent the demolition of the important building of the former Schicht races. One of the tasks of the Ministry is to search and store cultural monuments, including important industrial buildings. The building of Schicht's races is certainly one of them. This object from the beginning of the last century is connected with significant local brands, everyone knows soap with deer or fat to fry Ceres. Not only these brands are connected to this object, I can further state the first stage in the production of seamless pipes in the world and many others. Part of this facility is to be demolished in the foreseeable future, its owner has no further use for it. Destroyed structure is bad condition. The fate of the building caused concern in the public, the city and its former mayors Petr Gandalovič and Jan Kubata are asking for its rescue. For the purposes of the city, this building is not suitable, the cost of its reconstruction is high and exceeds the possibilities of the city budget. I ask you, Minister, to join the efforts of the city of Ústí nad Labem to save the building. Only state and perhaps European funds can contribute to this. Once a representative building could come back to life. A number of cultural purposes are taken into account. For example, the Museum of the Industrial Revolution of North Bohemia is offered. The implementation of such a task could be entrusted to Collegium Bohemicum, whose co-founder is also your Ministry. This would certainly be an important intention to increase the subconsciousness of the region's importance within the Republic, but also in Europe. You have already been able to record this building's rescue initiative at your ministry in the form of a complaint by the senator and historian Martin Krsk. [[Time, please.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u53	Thank you, it will be answered in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days, the Minister is excused. We are now going to interpel Mrs Jana Hanzlíková, Mrs Monika Oborná will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u54	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, my intervention concerns the deterioration of the implementation of the ageing policy measures. Aging policy and implementation of strategies in this area is a priority for all civilised countries. One of the reasons for this is, above all, demographic developments, where we know that the population is ageing, and in future years this will manifest itself in many areas. It is therefore extremely important to create appropriate conditions in society. Since 9 out of 10 people want to live their age in their home environment, it is absolutely necessary to support field social and health services, but what is extremely important is also to promote intergenerational belonging and cooperation in society, and this has not been happening recently in the area of public statements by the MPSV and the government. In public space, we can encounter communication from the government about seniors in a negative sense, for example, that seniors will continue to grow, it will cost a lot of funding at the expense of future generations, that the pension system is unsustainable, must approach unpopular steps that touch younger generations, and many other similar statements that in society are arousing and have a visible negative impact on intergenerational relations and cooperation. To illustrate, I would like to mention the activity of the Hate Free project, Czech Republic is talking 2022, which was focused on intergenerational interviews, where organizers say the bilateral ageism, which surprises me, was expressed: "The disgusting event of generational counterparts took place in more than thirty countries of the world and so the generation gap did not show up. " I therefore ask the Minister what steps the MPSV and the government will take to improve the situation with regard to the implementation of intergenerational cooperation measures significantly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u55	Thank you. I also now state that the Minister is excused, he will reply in writing within 30 days. We will proceed to another interview by Mrs Monika Oborná, Mrs Lenka Knechtová will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u56	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, unfortunately absent, Minister of Industry and Trade, on February 2 at a press conference during your visit to the Tøbíč region, you said in connection with the construction of the nuclear block in Dukovany: "We will help the Highlands to build roads, bypasses or secure housing. At the same time, we will also support the development of education. We're gonna need a new generation of nuclear engineers, technicians and other professions. We're not talking about hundreds, we're talking about thousands." As a Member of the Highlands, I welcome these words, and I totally agree with that, but I am a little afraid that it should not just be said. According to current plans, the supplier of the new block should start building in 2029 and seven years later the new block should start producing electricity. However, as we know, the construction of new roads, apartments or the education of engineers is not a short-term matter at all. That is why I wanted to ask you here if the government has any concrete plan for meeting these objectives, when and how you intend to start implementing it. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u57	Thank you for your interpellation. The written answer will come within 30 days. And I will now ask Mrs Lenka Knechtová to present her questions. Mrs Klára Dostálová can be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u58	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, how to achieve fair conditions in remuneration, financing of social services in the Czech Republic, to level out the conditions in financing and remuneration in the social services segment for both contributing and non-profit organisations? In the contribution organisations, employees are rewarded with salary, and in non-governmental organisations they receive wages. They help and pay employees' salaries automatically and by law, not by NGOs. This creates a pay gap. I am concerned with promoting equal conditions in the remuneration of social workers, with whom social workers from my region are addressing me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u59	Thank you. The Minister is excused, you will receive a written reply within 30 days. [[15.30 hours]] I will now ask Mrs Klára Dostálová, but she is not present, so her interpellation is failing, and we will approach Mr Kubíček's interpelation with Minister Bartoš. However, Mr Kubíček is not present either, so this interpelation is also failing, and we are continuing to interpelise Mrs Andrea Babišová. It is not present, so this interpelation is also failing. He is coming to Mr Jan Síla and his intervention, Mrs Jana Hanzlíková will be ready again. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u60	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President, fellow Members. I would like to interpel Minister Válek on a matter that could improve the situation of our insured people as regards the availability of dentists. It is a problem like this: dentist graduates go to private practice after training, where they do not conclude contracts with insurance companies and work for the money of patients, so-called cash, which means double or triple the price they charge before they are paid by the health insurance company. This is about changing a registered doctor to an insured person in regular care within one IČZ provider, which is usually an eseróčka. These young doctors are entering the eserócka to learn more or less how to treat insurance companies and so on under the control of older doctors, dentists. The rules and conditions for reporting the reimbursement of outpatient dental services covered by public health insurance for the year 2022 show, and I quote: "The workplace of the IČP was terminated, for example, because it left the dentist without compensation. In such a case, the health insurance company shall transfer the insured person registered to the expired IČP to another IČP of the same provider, unless otherwise agreed with the provider. The 80 dose is not sent to a health insurance company. The insured person does not sign a new registration sheet. Code 00900 is not reported; medical documentation is not re-founded. It continues, which means that the insured person will remain in regular care of the provider of IČZ." The question is: is your goal to remove dental care from public health insurance?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u61	Time, please! Thank you. I will now conclude, then, that the Minister is duly excused, the reply will come in writing within 30 days. It is Mrs Jana Hanzlíková's turn to prepare Mr Radek Koten. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u62	Thank you for the floor, and I wanted to interpelise on the subject of a financial threat to social services with an over-regional scope, but given that the Minister is absent and that this is an issue that needs to be dealt with quickly, it would not be valid to get an answer in 30 days. Then I'll ask you to withdraw this interpellation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u63	I understand, thank you, and we will proceed to interpelling Mr Radek Koten, Mr Karel Rais will prepare. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u64	Thank you for the floor. Minister, I would very much like to ask you about a government-approved plan or a pre-approved plan to build a gigafactory at the airport in Linz, because it is a problem that resonates especially in the Pilsen Region and given the security situation that is in Europe, I do not think it would be wise to dispose of this airport because the military can use it. Of course, it's used by Air Rescue and other files. And so I wanted to ask you in this way whether the lobby needs of people who are needed in your immediate vicinity or whether the government is actually willing to give up this airport, which is also being used by the Army of the Czech Republic, are just like that at this time. It has been declared that another airport will be built somewhere else, but I fear that in the current regulations and laws that we must comply with here in terms of new constructions, such an airport will not be built anywhere in this region. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u65	Thank you. I repeat that the Minister is excused and will reply in writing within 30 days. We are going to interpel Mr Karel Rais, and Mr Jan Síla will be ready, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u66	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Dear Minister, I am following up on the problem raised here by my colleague Hendrych, and this is the problem of the salaries of higher education workers. Given the importance of this problem here, when I have a number of numbers here that I'm documenting the sub-financing, I would do that tomorrow morning I would put this program in a meeting, because it's not worth putting in an empty hall here. Just in writing, because workers are already threatening strikes in quotation marks, so I think it would be worth it to get at least the answer to the question of what operational steps leading to an immediate increase in the salaries of university workers, especially humane-oriented faculty workers, you intend to do. I think there's a point. The second question is more general. I know that you will be editing as a coalition of the government's programming statement, so I would like to know from the Minister of Education what the government's specific commitment towards a salary policy will look like, which you would put into a newly modified programming statement. I'd save the details for tomorrow morning's discussion of the program. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u67	Thank you. What you asked will be answered in writing within 30 days. And we are going to interpel Mr Jan Síla, and Mrs Pokorná Jermanová will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u68	Thanks again for the word. I'd like to add my previous interpellation to Secretary Válek, which I should explain what I was really up to. It means that a young doctor, a young dentist who has left the eseróček, leaves his registered patients on the eseróček, who will not have another dentist, and that means that the other dentists who stay there must take over these registered patients here, but they each have 2,000, 2,500 registered patients, and if they take over 1,500 other patients from the young one, they will not be able to do so physically. What does this lead to? This leads to the fact that this legislative arrangement actually forces health insurance companies and the government to terminate contracts with health insurance companies as well as the rest of the older doctors, who are not physically able to take over the care of patients of the cancelled IPP of the young doctor, who goes to his private practice, where he works for significantly larger money, as originally in the eserocheum. How to address this problem? In my opinion, this problem should be addressed in such a way that a young dentist who goes to his private practice, if possible, in one city, should take over registered patients, that is to say, the IČP, which is originally based on IČZ, s. r. o., should be transferred to a new workplace at the same time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u69	Thank you for presenting your interpelation. Once again, the questions that will be raised there were presented in the last interpelation, so I just want to say that this is more of an addition to the last one, you used your time. Now, Mrs Pokorná Jermanová, Mr Kettner will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u70	Once again, good afternoon, esteemed colleagues. Dear Minister Stanjur, thank you for being present and answering my question, which is inspired by an article which I have detected that you have commissioned an inventory of state property, which is, of course, dealt with by the Office of State representation in property matters. I want to ask you whether you've entered the inventory from the beginning, from scratch, or whether you're following up on the inventory that the previous government has entered, whether it's still going on. [[15.40 hours]] I would also like to know whether you are planning any adjustments in the Act on State Property, especially in connection with the transfer of unnecessary property to regions and towns or municipalities. And then, of course, I wonder if at this point you already know of any property that you would like to sell, because I understood from the comment made by Minister Lipavský that he was glad to get rid of a hot potato, but I would be interested in the fate of such properties as Štiřín in the future. And one more question, if you plan to translate this to the Chamber of Deputies, or on the ground. The Chamber of Deputies is debating because that is what I think they deserve to be discussing here. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u71	Thank you and now there is room for the reaction of the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u72	Thank you for the floor. I don't know how to interpret whether inventory from scratch - this will be the first inventory of unnecessary property. At this point, a total of 507 state institutions are registered, 507, and about 1.5 million properties are registered. The government approved a motion for a resolution on my proposal. This is already being realized, that is, the Office of State representation will contact all 507 institutions by the end of March, get a list of all property according to the title sheet. Each of them has to identify unnecessary property and the needy one is transferred to one place, the Office of State representation in property matters, because today, in terms of supply, especially to self-government, it is only - in quotation marks only - from property managed by the Office of State representation in property matters. Over the last five years, 22,000 properties have been transferred to the State Representation Office in property matters to municipalities and regions, 86 percent free of charge and 14 percent corrupt. So it'll be up to the individual institutions to prove they need the property, or he'll be useless. In that law, we made a change in methodology, so it's easier today. It's one of the four personal priorities I said when I arrived at the Ministry, simplifying this process. We are preparing an amendment to the State Property Act, where we would like to have the taxative reasons for the free transfer, the types of assets and the reasons for the tax-related cases where it is a bribe transfer, but the self-government gets exclusive to negotiate, that is, it will not have to participate in the auctions in particular, because it is unable to deal with it there for legal reasons. And if he doesn't use it, it's a standard offer of unnecessary property. This is how we proceed. We have discussed the product, including the IT solution prepared by the Office of State Representation in Property Affairs, in the past days with the representation of the Union of Towns and Communities, the Association of Local Government and the Association of Regions, because from these days every mayor who voluntarily subscribes to the newsletter will be able to have an overview of all the property that is in its cadaster. I think that's a step in the right direction, and that's how we're going to proceed. In order to avoid the question of Štiřín, we will follow the law, so when the transfer to the Office of State representation in property matters is terminated, we will contact other state institutions under the law. In the event of unnecessary property, there will be a bribe transfer. We are not yet that far away, but I must say that at this point I am not registering any other interest - but it may not be entirely true in the finals - other branches of the state, organizational units of the state, ministries, contribution organizations that would like to use this property. The key or two main reasons - and both of them were good, but we are both doing both of us together - first of all, allowing the transfer of mainly unnecessary property to cities, municipalities and regions for their development projects, improving the record, and thus reducing the cost of the state - that is the second objective - to manage the property.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u73	Thank you and there is an interest in the supplementary question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u74	Thank you for your answer. I'd like to ask you about the timetable when you're going to present the bill amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u75	Thank you, and now the Minister's response still.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u76	In these days, we are finalizing the paragrafo text, which will first go into the internal review procedure, then to the external one, so I would like it to be this year. I don't think I can make it to parliamentary holidays, that is, after parliamentary holidays. I don't even suppose that there would be any big political conflict here, rather from experience, both the authorities and the authorities, we want to change the rules, and I say, in particular, in the area of tax-free transfer, tax-related exclusive negotiations. That doesn't mean the community or the city has to want it. But there will always be, especially in the case of a free transfer, some insurance policies, some time when the municipality or the county or the city must not alienate it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u77	Thank you, and we'll proceed to another interpellation. As Mr Kettner announced that he was withdrawing, it was Mr Patrik Nacher's turn to prepare Mrs Karla Maříková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u78	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Perhaps next time, there will be a better tactic for us to interpel on the ministers who will be here, not on the things that interest us, because normally, under normal circumstances, the interpelation starts at 16 o'clock on the ministers, because when the Prime Minister is here, it runs out until 16 o'clock. And now they're on ministers, and I'm the 32nd in a row, and I'm next because everyone else was falling apart. Well, it's just to shake the fact that I've seen a picture of Andrej Babiš's place on social media today since TOP 09, that it's empty. So I could add here that it's empty except for the two ministers that I appreciate they're here, so there's not a single minister here, so the interpelations are coming through one by one. And it is also my case, because I wanted to ask the Minister of Industry Síkela, where we are with finance in terms of ČTÚ and ERÚ, that is, out-of-court authorities, authorities that help consumers - Czech Telecommunications Office, Energy Regulatory Office. Perhaps the Minister of Finance could answer, perhaps? [[Minister of Finance off the microphone: I can't.]] It can't, it's a shame, yes, but we talk about it a lot. I have also put amendments in the state budget for this year, to strengthen these institutions financially, because they deal with more and more consumer disputes, and there are also more and more complaints from people in terms of billing, logically, at a time of energy crisis with the Energy Regulatory Authority. So I was wondering how the Minister of Industry has secured the funding and capacity of these institutions. It's a shame we can't be flexible here, because maybe Secretary of Finance Stanjura would take advantage of it and maybe he'd answer something. If that's not possible under the Rules of Procedure, then I... that's what I said on the microphone here, and when the Minister is here, I'll repeat the interview. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u79	Thank you. It's not possible, but I'll ask. So you don't want an answer in writing? Since the question has been asked, you could get an answer in writing. [[No, I'll ask...]] You don't want to. Okay, it's clear. And we are going to interpel Mrs Karla Maříková, Mr Patrik Nacher will be ready again. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u80	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear absent minister, the SÚKL reports on the results of inspection activities that focus on the control of pharmacies and their illegal exports of drugs abroad. Trouble in manufacturing and logistics, or legal export of drugs abroad by distributors, is not the only cause of the shortage of certain drugs in Czech pharmacies. A rather new practice is illegal drug reexports abroad, which are carried out directly by some pharmacies. SÚKL has so far completed the checks or administrative proceedings on the basis of which it assessed fines of CZK 34 million. I wonder if any steps have been taken in this context to avoid such practices, because it seems to me that only a financial penalty is certainly not enough, and whether it has been found whether it is the practices of individuals as pharmacies or an organized group? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u81	Thank you. The Minister is excused. He will answer your question in writing within 30 days. And I will now ask Mr Nacher again with his intervention and Mrs Maříková can prepare herself again. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u82	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. That's a real record, because I've never been next in line with the 36th, but I'm glad Minister Bartoš is here. We've already played this game today, and I'm very happy for it. I've got an interpellation written about the heat billing. I've got a lot of reactions to that, and then we can tell each other the details of SVJ presidents how it's going, so thank you so much for that. [[15.50 hours]] And now I would have a second interview, in this case oral, what is the current state of affairs on the issue of short-term accommodation that we are dealing with here in the center of the capital city of Prague - and you know that I have tried to propose a point about six times to change the trade law dealing with the authority for municipalities so that we can deal with it ourselves. So I'm interested because I got some information from the City Council that something is being dealt with at the Ministry of Regional Development, at which stage we were now with the age-old problem of short-term accommodation, which we unfortunately missed when we could use the fact that tourists didn't come here for covid, so Prague was empty here. Now he's coming back here again, so if the Minister can tell us what's going on and when it's going to be here, and what's the character, and what's the point? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u83	Thank you for your interpellation. Now there is room for the Minister and the Vice Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u84	Thank you so much, thank you to Mr. Nacher. We've had a couple of exchanges today, so I'm glad he's here and I'm here to answer him. We, in cooperation with the stakeholders - MPO, Office of the Government, Office of the VOP - prepare a draft amendment to Act No. 159/1999 Coll., on tourism business, it is the carrier. The amendment that concerns this should define the nature of short-term accommodation and lay down rules for providing it. In order not to do so twice all of this, he is also closely related to one of the important promises of this government, and this is still an eturista, who will then be delivered under the National Recovery Plan, but also needs a change of laws, because we need a platform that practically works for accommodation. So not necessarily, but probably within one amendment, where the ground will also be prepared for the eTurist system, which will then evolve. As far as shared accommodation in this novel is concerned, it should really limit the negative effects we know especially from large cities. What I think is important is that I have tried to use the European tourism Presidency to somehow push the Commission to issue a European regulation. It was promised a month after the beginning of our Presidency, then it continued, but the proposal is now on the table. Therefore, a proposal that addresses the international dimension or the European dimension of those platforms, because their participation in the comprehensive functioning of the system, if we do not want to go into a physical revision of any object where Airbnb could potentially be, even if the house can be marked, it is not possible, it is absolutely desirable. We continue to work in cooperation with the Commission and with Prague on this issue, so that it actually meets the conditions that are given, and we expect Sweden to carry out this proposal sometime during March, and we would like to have the proposal discussed and on the table, ideally synergy eTurista, by the end of this year, and we would like to amend the law, which will then allow us to use the elements - there is reporting of foreigners and so on, it is connected - so also the amendment, which is based on European legislation, I could go into more detail. I consider the Commission's proposal to be of relatively high quality, although it does not go into national details and addresses in particular the role of platforms that are carriers of Airbnb or other - booking.com - accommodation within short-term accommodation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u85	Thank you. Is there an interest in an additional question? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u86	Thank you, Minister. I just noticed that you said by midterm, by the end of the semester, or by the end of June, would that be enough, could it be here, or would it be discussed with the government? My point is, I don't think we're gonna be able to make the summer season? I guess that's what my question is about whether these things could be accelerated, because Airbnb really... I don't want to say Airbnb, sorry, I meant short-term accommodation, I don't care what platform it is, the issue of short-term... Here I am glad that the future mayor agrees that this is really the problem of the capital city of Prague, which is becoming a huge problem when the summer months are and the season begins. So my question goes to whether or not this season's gonna make it?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u87	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u88	I'm just gonna react real quick. It would be ideal, but the Swedish Presidency has in its priorities that the general approach, the general consensus of the 27, before it goes to the European Parliament, should be in March. We may know where this is going, but the finalization agreement is not yet actually how Airbnb will be taken within the 27 countries, which should be based on national implementation. If we differ significantly in terms of parameters for eTurist, reporting aliens' stay towards the Ministry of the Interior and others, then it is possible that these two paths will break up. Then the part of legislation that concerns Airbnb is actually easier or faster. It's two streams, but then we'd expect two amendments to the same law, so we have to decide at some point if the knowledge is adequate, and then we could make it to the season. And if it were a better solution to discuss the two legislations in the framework of one amendment, I think it would be more practical.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u89	Thank you. We can now approach Mrs Karla Maříková's intervention and Mr Radek Koten will be ready again. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u90	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear absent minister, the Web Kverulant said that in the autumn of 2022, the Administration of State Material Reserves launched a competition to buy five large rescue vehicles. Two interested parties entered into the contract but were subsequently cancelled. On September 20, the administration of state material reserves announced a competition for the supply of five 8 x 8-powered rescue cars with a crane beam load of more than 20 tonnes. Tenders could be delivered by the participants by 28 November at the latest. The estimated price specified in the tender documents was set at CZK 70 248 000 without VAT. The delivery site should have been the storage capacity of the Fire Rescue Corps. In order to supply these vehicles, the Administration of State Material Reserves has set a time of 18 months since the purchase contract was signed. One of these places was the warehouse of the Fire Rescue Corps of the Pardubice Region, despite the fact that in October 2021 Pardubice firefighters had already concluded a contract with the company KOBIT, a limited liability company, for the delivery of a rescue car with a crane over 20 tonnes for the amount of CZK 16 758 500 without VAT. I wonder why the material reserve management needs five eight-wheel rescue cars? Why did the Administration of State Material Reserves write a tender, not firefighters? And then why was the contract canceled? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u91	Thank you. Once again, it shall be answered in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. And now there is room for Mr Radek Koten with his intervention. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u92	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, I have now received information in the daily press that CEZ will give arbitration against the Russian company Gazprom regarding the reduced supply of natural gas. This dispute will therefore take place in Switzerland and Geneva and will be decided by a three-member arbitration tribunal. We all seem to remember last year and the European Union's sanctions against the Russian Federation. Of course, Nord Stream's supply of gas also depended on other things, namely those sanctions, because it was not possible to return the repaired turbines that Siemens repaired somewhere in Canada. But most of all, I wonder if the Czech Republic will be filing any further arbitrations on the perpetrators of the terrorist attack, when Nord Stream I and Nord Stream II were blown up? Now there has been some information in the American press that has been called disinformation over time, but they are already in public space. So I'm wondering, how will your ministry stand up to these new facts here? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u93	Thank you. As has been communicated many times, it will be answered in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. And now, in a situation where Mr Zdeněk Kettner had already withdrawn his intervention, Mrs Vladimíra Lesenská withdrew and Mr Kamal Farhan is present in the hall with his interview number 41 as it was drawn. Mrs Karla Maříková may be ready again, and I will pass the meeting proceedings straight away.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u94	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, I'm assuming my interpellation is short. I'll allow you to ask three questions about health insurance. My first question is whether the government of Petr Fiala is working on a new legislation that should allow insurance companies to merge, change the rules of public health insurance? The other one, it concerns you directly: is the Ministry of Health or the Ministry of Finance working on it? And the last question: does the Treasury have a working group that should change legislation in health care? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u95	Thank you. Minister Stanjura will answer your question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u96	Thank you for the opportunity. I will first return to our debates last year, Mr. Ambassador, through Madam Vice-President. You, your colleagues, have warned here in dozens of cases about the outcome of funding and public health care. I would expect at the moment that we all know the results, that we don't, but you say to the public space, "We were wrong, there was no slump, because the total revenue of the system was 434 billion, the total expenditure of the system was 429, so not that the deficit would be 15, 20, 25 billion, the surplus would be 4.85 billion. I'll start from the end - the third question. Within NERV, an advisory body of the government, there is a health group. She has given several papers and within the government coalition one working group is dealing at expert level at this time with possible changes in health care. But it's not a finance group, I just organized the formation of such a group. That is, representatives go there or representatives of all the government parties and NERVs go there, judging the proposals that will now be the subject of negotiations at the level of the government coalition. The moment we have a consensus at the level of the government coalition, we will negotiate with the opposition. I wouldn't characterize it as a working group of the Treasury Department, but we organized it. The question was whether the information about the planned health insurance company was true? Well, I don't know where that information comes from. I feel that this may be one of the impulses of the NERV - there are 64 of them in total to have an idea of all possible areas - but this debate is constantly returning in public space for 25 years, whether it should be one or three, or five, or seven, so logically these debates take place without, for example, being initiated by the finance minister. I just got the results from last year. Of course, the most successful was the VZP, which was in excess of 8 billion, then in a slight surplus was still the Revival Brotherhood and then there were very slight deficits. The biggest deficit was nominally, but not percentagely, probably in the Czech Industrial Health Insurance Company, where income was less than 47 billion and expenditures were less than 48, so the balance was negative CZK 1 billion. Anyway, I think I'm saying for myself that if this debate keeps repeating itself, why not repeat it - pluses, minuses. My personal opinion is that it's wrong to have one health insurance company. I think it's a completely different system, which is also abroad, but it's not a health insurance system anymore. The second thing, when I still have time, I am convinced, and I say this at a meeting where I meet representatives of health insurance companies, that they have much more to show in the network of health establishments, for example, that it is a matter of insurance companies, that they should be more active in doing the part that is prescribed for them in the legislation. But that's nothing new in the debate, I just think it should be. I'm trying to build on that, and my ministry, that we don't only care about the part about the state insurance payments and actually the whole volume, because it's outside the state budget, outside the payment, it's the spending party, and when you see that number - income of 434 billion, expenditure of 429 billion - I think we have to debate in the government, but also in the Chamber of Deputies, the Senate about the whole system of health insurance and public health insurance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u97	Thank you. Is the Member interested in an additional question? He does. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u98	Minister, thank you for your answer. I was interested in the working group, how it was created, you answered me, so, of course, thank you for that. If you look at the tapestry, I have always said in my performances that by collecting 14 billion Czech health care, there will be restrictions on the entry of new medicines, innovative resources, and I never said that the system would collapse, and I said that there would be a reduction in funds on insurance reserves. Well, that's just it. And of course, today we have a valorisation mechanism, if you put in the numbers that are there today, you can already estimate how much next year, if the valorisation mechanism is preserved - and you all said it'll be preserved - so today, if the numbers get there, that's a lot of money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u99	Thank you for keeping time. The Minister will answer you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u100	Just a quick note. I think we're supposed to go back to the valorisation mechanism in, like, three years, that we need to let the new system work, evaluate, then eventually get back to it. So we certainly are not going to repeat or modify the debate during this parliamentary term. It would make no sense, we wouldn't have enough data and enough experience with the new system to be able to evaluate it responsibly somehow. And that's it, actually. But what I'm trying to say is that the health insurance plans were followed, that's what the insurance companies planned. That means, if there was a threat to what you're saying, they would be in a deficit, no one, no expense, would prevent them. It really ended up in a surplus of almost 5 billion crowns. I think that's good news, that it's not a political struggle, that it's good news, that the system was stable, basically robust, and the balances on all accounts, not just on the reserve funds, were about 57 billion at the end of 2022, but we both know that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u101	Thank you. I now give the floor to Mrs Karla Maříková, who was drawn in 42nd place, to present oral interpellation to the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan, and to prepare Mr Radek Koten. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u102	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President, I won't need those two minutes. Dear absent minister, on Tuesday evening 13 migrants escaped from the detention facility for migrants in Balková u Žihla, Plzeňsko. It was mostly about foreigners originating in North Africa, specifically Morocco, who are secured in an establishment for administrative expulsion into the country of origin. I would like to know, because it has not appeared in the media, how the situation has actually occurred and what measures will be taken so that such a situation does not recur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u103	Thank you, ma'am. The Minister is duly excused, so you will receive a written reply to your oral questioning. And now, Mr Koten. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u104	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I receive quite a lot of letters from people, or rather from mothers who raised one, two or three children and are also physically disabled. Here, there's basically support or thank you, 500 crowns for every raised child paid by the Department of Labour and Social Affairs to those mothers. If the mother is in disability, she doesn't receive this allowance. I think it's quite a big discrimination because even this mother raised one, two, three or more children, and I wanted to ask you if you intend to address this disproportion with an amendment to the law. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-09-ps2021-052-03-004-110.u105	Thank you, too. Minister Marian Jurečka will respond to your interpelation regarding the contribution of CZK 500 per child raised in writing, given that he is duly excused. This was the 43rd interpelation. We have exhausted all applications from the log-in list, and I note that we have closed the oral questioning for today's meeting day. Next, I have a message. Based on the agreement from the Gremium, I interrupt the 52nd meeting by Friday, February 10, 2023 by 9 o'clock, with this I say goodbye to you and have a nice afternoon and have a nice evening.
