ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u1	102. Government bill amending Act No. 66/2022 Coll., on measures in the field of employment and social security in the context of armed conflict in the territory of Ukraine caused by the invasion of the Russian Federation troops, as amended, and other related laws /house print 374/ - third reading I ask that Vice-President of the Government, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and Minister of the Environment Marian Jurečka and rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, i.e. the Social Policy Committee, Member Jiří Navrátil. [[Noise in the hall.]] The amendments are set out in the Houses of Press 374/2, which was delivered on 10 February 2023. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as the House Press 374/3. So now he asks the appellant if he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened? Mr. Secretary? [[The Minister gestures.]] He's not interested. That is why I am opening the debate right now, and I am registering Mrs Mádlová and Mr Hendrych's application to it. First of all, Mrs Mádlová will speak. I don't see anyone else. I don't have any more applications. [[Disadvised gestures from the O.R.]] I don't know what the trouble is here, but the lady has the floor. So please, you can get out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u2	Madam President, Minister, colleagues, I would just like to sum up today the issue of clinical logos, which unfortunately came into this law. [[The noise in the room doesn't stop.]] I must say, I am so glad to be able to follow up on yesterday's very substantive debate on school logos. I will use the general term because we do not know how this new profession will be named if it is voted in this House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u3	I apologise to you, Madame, but first I would like to ask my colleagues to be quiet, especially in the left side of the hall, but also in the middle part of the hall. I beg those who need to deal with anything to move into the lobby, let there be a more dignified atmosphere. Please, you may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u4	Thank you for the floor and the peace in the hall. Yesterday we saw beautifully how discussions were held on the competences of integrating this new profession into the law on pedagogical workers. It is a great pity that there was no room for a similar discussion of clinical logos in the health law, where this non-medical profession is legalized. However, I would like to thank Minister Válek very much for this - he is here - because we have managed to develop some discussion on the clinical logo, and I would also like to thank the representative of the Ministry of Health, with whom we have had the opportunity to discuss this in substance again, when we have clarified the reasons why this is so conceived and why it would deserve more discussion, both between the professional company and the Ministry of Health and, if necessary, the health committee. There was a very short period of time when the period between the discussions over the abolition of accredited courses at universities and the withdrawal of specialised competence in the law over a period of three years. It has been about two weeks and we believe that this issue would be worth more attention, on the one hand, in the expert field between the professional company and the Ministry and on the other, on the health committee and, if necessary, here at the plenary in the House in the amendment of this law. I think it was quite clear here yesterday, and the Minister of Health confirmed it when we were talking about competence and the focus of clinical speech and speech in education. Indeed, they are two different areas of competence, one of which works in education and one of them in health care, and he has a follow-up special training for health care work and he becomes a healthcare professional with everything. This means that the clinical logoped determines the diagnosis, treats and uses the International Classification of Diseases, shows its performance to the health insurance company. The school logoped, or logoped in education, works with students and students and helps the clinical logopedo cope with health problems in the education and education process in the area of speech disorders and disorders. I think that this is very important, and that is why these things need to be discussed even further. It is a great pity that there were no steps B in the explanatory report, which are not yet clear. That means if I break it in the law, what's going to happen? Where will the accredited courses be carried out further? They're just gonna be at the Ministry of Health's accredited workplaces, and it's gonna stay at the universities, isn't it? Or will it go under other centers, under other educational agencies or companies? Unfortunately, that wasn't there. Similarly, the emphasis was placed on the fact that clinical speech should focus on Ukrainian children who logically came up with a different mother tongue. Here too is not the crucial role of clinical speech that we need in health care and for patients, as my honored colleague, Professor Adámková, spoke of. By the way, maybe six. 3. is the Day of Clinical Logopedia, it is the Day of Logopeds, and focus there is the role of clinical logoped in intensive care, because such clinical logoped works also in the neo-Natological department, in the intensive care unit, because prematurely born children have suction, swallowing and breathing disorders while breast feeding and clinical logoped is there to help, for example, manage this, or it is in developmental disorders in those children. It is indeed a fundamental but essential health profession, although it is in the minority - it is not too many, unfortunately - but nevertheless they have an irreplaceable role to play and it really needs to be discussed. [[10.30 hours]] And again, I want to thank Minister Válek here for supporting the amendment law so that the debate can develop more. [[A suggestion?]] This means that it will certainly be important to say what step B will be, and certainly to hold accredited courses at IPV - where there is another postgraduate education of doctors and other workers, it is quite appropriate. It is a workplace that has an age-old tradition, and it actually runs all the statistics on the education of health professions, so we will definitely support this and support a number of other changes if they are well discussed. We have no problem with that at all. After what is probably important, it would be good to know if it does not have any impact on the profession within the European Union, because an international project has also been carried out within the European Union, where educational programmes and the competence of clinical logos have been assessed. There's a clear formulation of what a clinical logoped actually is. So it also needs to be taken into account whether this will have any impact on the agreement of this European project, which has been attended by more than 25 countries and where educational programmes and key competences have been assessed, and also on this programme or project, the competence that clinics should have and where their pre-graduate and post-graduate education should also be moved. And by the way, maybe not all states have a Ph.D. science degree, and in the Czech Republic it is possible. This means that the Czech Republic is at a very high level when it comes to the qualification of health workers. And if we are interfering with this law, it is necessary to see what impact this will have on health care. Maybe it was just a formal matter, but we don't know exactly, which is why it would be a good idea for us to discuss it and make it a valid report. So, with this, I would probably close my summary of the clinical logos and the amendment, where we will be very happy, and I ask you to support this amendment, so that this paragraph, which concerns clinical logos, is released from lex Ukraine and that it is given the right place to be discussed in the expert field. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u5	Thank you, Madame. Colleagues, colleagues, have a good morning and we will continue the debate. I now have here the application of Minister Válek to make a factual point. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u6	Thank you, Madam President. I would simplify the potential debate. First of all, thank you for the fair debate of the parties to this amendment, and the Ministry of Health has a positive opinion on it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u7	Thank you, Minister. Mr Hendrych is now in the debate, and Mrs Pastuchová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u8	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll be brief today. I've already talked about this here at second reading. On the one hand, it is certainly necessary or important to commend the intention to tighten the conditions for humanitarian aid, or for the benefit of humanitarian aid, or some motivation that arises for the activation of the citizens of Ukraine to seek employment more actively and to stand on their own feet, as it were. That's definitely a good thing we agree with, I think, across the House. But at the same time, it is also important to say a few weak points that this legislation has, which is generally known and which we have discussed with the Minister on the Social Policy Committee, and that is that it is currently practically impossible to find out officially how much funding a candidate has for a humanitarian benefit in a particular bank account. He confirmed this two days ago during the meeting of the Sub-Committee on IT and the issue of the Labour Office, which was set up by the Sub-Committee on Social Policy, as well as by the Director-General and Mr Trpkoš, who is also appointed Director of the Labour Office, that there are currently no mechanisms to do so, how to break banking secrets. I think we're working on it, I believe, but it's gonna be difficult. Nor is it possible to determine whether a humanitarian benefit candidate has more than one bank account, and I think that there is a relatively significant pitfall for the legislative regulation, a legislative change actually works so that it makes sense. I believe there may be a way to resolve this in the future, but it is a problem. We're adopting legislation, and its enforcement is now, you might say, at a point zero in this area. Another situation is, of course, in the area of immovable property, in such a way that through the cadastral office and the entry into it it can be determined whether or not the citizen of Ukraine has a real estate in the Czech Republic, which, let's say, maybe in some way commercial use and income from it. It was quite surprising for me on that subcommittee on IT and the issue of the employment office when I repeatedly asked whether or not new employees would be recruited to the employment office for this agenda, and I was told that this is not being considered at the moment, it is not planned. And the question is whether the current capacity of employees of the employment office, which is essentially undersized, and at the same time not all jobs or jobs are occupied, whether they will prosecute and how they will prosecute. So this is also a little unknown to me, and we will definitely watch it from the opposition, as the Labour Office is able to handle in the current situation without new employees. And then the last question, the last problematic issue in this sense, is that funding is still not clarified, from where, from which binding indicator, which specific chapters of the state budget will be financed this year. The Minister referred to the Committee on Social Policy - he mentioned it here in plenary - that it is in the solution that financial resources will be sought, but it is not yet clarified. So I think this is the last weaker place for this legislative regulation, and I believe that this will be clarified and that the Minister, at least on the Committee on Social Policy, will inform us about it. That's all for me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Jana Pastuchová is now signed in, Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u10	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Let me conclude with this third reading that I have said something about this law and evaluate the whole situation. I don't know if there's gonna be any more Lex Ukraine VI, maybe the conditions will require it, so maybe we'll meet again. However, at the beginning of today's negotiations, we remembered that it was a year since Russia attacked Ukraine, and it is a good thing that the Czech Republic took the right side in this situation. I deliberately say the Czech Republic, because it was often almost in spite of the government. Although it has demonstrated an extraordinary capacity for declaratory policy, it has shown little organizational or strategic ability. She demonstrated an extraordinary ability to be on time where there are cameras and journalists, but only a small ability to deal with what needs to be done immediately. But, fortunately, because of the good will of the people in our Republic and their help, the consequences of their actions are not so terrible. [[10.40 hours]] The uncontrolled energy crisis, inflation, or sometimes sales of help to Ukrajinec who are with us before the war are just the most visible problems that can be seen. Among other things, I really think it would be nice if ministers really thanked all those who are helping Ukrajinec in the Czech Republic and now for once. Anyway, right now, volunteers, employers, teachers, carers, doctors, and a lot of others are showing their true resolve. Because they have to work off what politicians have enjoyed in front of the cameras. It is one thing to give away, spend spectacularly money from the state budget and brag about it, and something completely different is to solve the daily problems that the war in Ukraine has raised. [[Minister Jurečka responds from the rapporteur's desk.]] I'd beg you, Minister, not to shout. Mr. Interior Minister Vít Rakušan said that he expected about one third of the refugees to remain in the Czech Republic, and I would be very interested in how this figure arrived. According to most political scientists and studies, in a country that provides asylum for refugees before the war, about two thirds of these people remain, and that is quite a big difference. It is this casual approach of the Minister of the Interior that makes the situation extremely difficult for everyone. On the one hand, it boasts that over 450,000 refugees have found asylum in the Czech Republic, according to the General Health Insurance Company, which is the only one who can register people for health insurance, that is 367,000. Not to mention that no one here today knows how many war refugees we actually have here, because systematic records haven't been here for more than a year. I know it's not important for the government, but for the people who live here, yes, because this number of people is not adapted to the functioning of the state and its files. Couple of examples at a time. Health: Hospitals do not have a higher number of people optimized by the emergency room, and therefore already overwhelmed ambulances are even more overloaded. The drugs I was talking about today, but even their volume, their orders, is not optimised for the arrival of several hundred thousand people. Yes, it could be understood at the beginning of the conflict, but today we remembered that it was a year ago. Overloaded schools: The already difficult situation thanks to the popularly strong years was strengthened by the arrival of schoolchildren from Ukraine. And instead of helping the government deal with it, we sometimes see a situation that many students are in vain looking for high school seats. Even after a year, the government was unable to pass on the recognition of education for some of the key occupations of the Ukrajinec. Recent studies show that even after a year only a few educated Ukrajinec, often experts in their field who came to us, found employment in their field. And how do they respond to that? Either they work in intellectually less demanding professions or they go further west.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u11	I apologise, Madam, I would like to ask the Member not to shout at his colleagues, at least in the lobby. Thank you. Please, madam, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u12	Thank you. This time, Mr. Foldyna, through you, spoke quite quietly. This country was able to offer - and I am really happy about it - a temporary home for a number of scientists, but then we let them go to the West to continue complaining that we lack experts in some professions. And I think there's another waste of opportunity. We've accepted hundreds of thousands of people, but we haven't modified the operation of the state. Without exaggeration, ministers are only passive viewers in the Czech Republic. They watch a number of Ukrajinec who want to work find themselves in a grey zone. On the one hand, we know about this from the media, on the other hand, how much of a problem it is, but no one knows, because overwhelmed police and overloaded labour offices prefer to keep quiet about these things. Promised investments in integration are reduced to the easiest forms for civil servants. Instead of communicating with refugees who found a home in our country before the war, the Ministry issues information brochures, manufactures dead websites in advance, and yes, the money for integration flows, but not into integration, but into activities that enable officials to check out the task regardless of its effectiveness. After all, it's strange, and it's a little weird that even after a year, I don't know that the government has some similar research into the mood of the problems and situations of the Ukrajinec who live here. [[Minister Jurečka responds from the rapporteur's desk.]] That's not how we saw him, Minister. But I'd really like it if you guys wouldn't be talking to me, and I'm not jumping on you either. And believe me, I've been trying to find him, I haven't. You say you have it, so I'd love it if you'd give it to us. We have another Lex of Ukraine today, this time the fifth, and I dare say, and I said so on the Social Policy Committee that it was presented to us a week before, but without any debate. That's why we could save ourselves the outputs here, when we put the sticker on Act No. 96 non-medical professions. [[Minister Jurečka responds again.]] Madam Vice-President, would you please tell the Minister not to keep hitting on me here?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u13	Minister, I ask you not to yell at the MP. [[Laughter and entertainment in the hall.]] It's not funny. [[Weak applause.]] I am sorry, but unfortunately, I do not see this when the Minister is speaking, so I just ask the Minister, if necessary, to comment on the matter after the Member's contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u14	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. It wasn't up to you, I know you don't see it, but I'm really uncomfortable with it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u15	I understand. I'm sure the Minister will make it right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u16	Thank you. In fact, the Minister can then respond to all the words I have said. Thank you. So I said that Lex Ukraine, we have a fifth here. If it is necessary, because the situation is evolving as it has developed in covid, so can the Lex of Ukraine VI, I think that we are not defending ourselves, and I will always stress that this law supports the YES movement, but we have been given it again, but that is your right, and that is why here we can talk about what is there and is not wrong. I'm not going to continue this debate, I have about five more papers here, but I'm going to let my colleagues and my colleagues respond, and if I'm going to do it again, I'm going to have to make some more notes, which the Minister here has been humming in my ear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u17	Thank you, too, Madame. Is the Minister interested in speaking with the facts or with priority rights? Mr. Secretary? [[Minister Jurečka: I signed up with the facts.]] Okay, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u18	Thank you. I will allow myself very briefly to respond to the really obvious untruths, and I will ask that whoever is writing these documents to Mrs Pastuchová, who then reads here, really be based on publicly traceable facts. Repeatedly during the last year, the Prime Minister in public appearances, ministers in public appearances, the government as a whole thanked citizens of the Czech Republic, NGOs, mayors, mayors, chieftains, captains, all the people of the various components who participated in helping the war. We have repeatedly, publicly, frankly and privately thanked many of us, as well as the members of the government, in our families, not talking about it and providing it directly. [[10.50 hours]] Second comment: Lex Ukraine IV was sent to all Members from my instructions on 10 January. Please don't tell me you got it five days in advance. It's not true, it's traceable. When it comes to the question of what you said here, the officials will check the box - so that's very unfair. Those people at my department, on the inside, on defense, on education, they're really doing their best to make things work. Look at the feedback. Ask non-governmental organisations and every two weeks I sit with other people, with 20 to 30 people from NGOs, and we deal with the help and things that need to be dealt with to adapt and integrate refugees. [[unintelligible]] Ask those NGOs. If you are criticizing the government here, ask for reviews from abroad, representatives of the European Commission, UNICEF, other international organisations. The Czech Republic is one of the best rated countries. But ask, first of all, Ukrainian refugees, former Ambassador Perebyjnis, and others who have extremely high-quality assessments of the assistance provided by this country, this government, this society, these households. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u19	Thank you, Minister. Mrs Jana Pastuchová, Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, has applied for another factual action. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u20	Thank you. I must respond, Minister, through you. I'm writing my own paperwork. I don't have an apparatus at the Ministry that prepares it for me. I don't want you to use those invectives against me, I write them myself. And another thing, yes, I've said it here several times, I have - March 9th will be the year that I have a Ukrainian family staying with them, and I've been living with them for a year what our government is preparing here. And I also asked about some analysis of the satisfaction of Ukrainian citizens - you say it exists, so I take it from the practice of the year I have, and these people are here in whatsapp groups, on Facebook and their problems are completely out of practice. So please, I'm writing my own speeches, and that's that, as you've been blaming us for the fact that our government didn't work the way it was supposed to, so maybe it seems to you, but I'm telling you, I've had it firsthand since March 9th because I've had the Ukrainian family there for a year, and the next year, for your information, we've extended it to them at home.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u21	Thank you, Madame. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, then Minister Jurečka, will now speak with the facts. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u22	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I would also like to respond to Mr. Labor and Social Affairs Minister, Mr. Marian Jurečka, with the fact that he has denied my colleague Jana Pastuchová's claim to thank the government here. I, Minister, will bring you the resolutions that you have tabled here and proposed in the context of the refugee crisis, where only the government was grateful. And it was the YES movement that came up with this resolution to thank the captains, the mayors, the firemen, the police, the paramedics. It wasn't you, it wasn't the resolution. The resolution was merely thanks to the government. I'll get it for you. Second - Lex Ukraine V. What you are presenting today, Minister, to Lex Ukraine V, should have been long ago in Lex Ukraine IV as regards emergency accommodation and humanitarian benefits. You didn't make it as Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, which is why we have Lex Ukraine V. And with regard to the competences and the coordinator, I would say, of course, that I mind very much that the responsibility - and I understand it - is being stripped of the Home Secretary Vít Rakušan, who now gave the national coordinator to another minister, Mr Bek, and the Human Rights Commissioner. And do you know why, in my opinion? Because you didn't make it to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, you brought it with the big delay and we constantly criticized it, and that is why we didn't support Lex Ukraine IV. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u23	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, Minister Jurečka, Mrs Oulehlová will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u24	I beg you, let's listen to each other in these debates. There wasn't a debate about anyone thanking the government at all. Your colleague Pastuchová here said the government didn't thank you, the Prime Minister didn't thank you, the ministers didn't thank you. I have responded that many key speeches are traceable from public sources, including one very strong speech by the Prime Minister, who thanked the citizens of this country, a society where, after years of being relatively easy to talk about values in peace and quiet times, we are all, and I thank Mrs Pastuchová and her family, and we have lived a year, and we have been experiencing values in practice, values that we thought maybe in the 21st century may not be so much needed in practice, but we are experiencing them. I was talking here about the fact that it was said here in Mrs Pastuchová's speech that the material was not sent. I made a clear argument that it was sent to all Members on 10 January, immediately when we had the draft of the text, so we immediately sent it. That means it was ahead of us more than months before we started discussing the press here. That's what I do in other laws, I did it in case of valorization - when I had the text, I immediately sent it to all of you, even if you have access to eKLEP, if you wanted, I sent it explicitly to these mailboxes. So please, let's not say things that aren't true, and I'll ask Mrs Pastuchová too: I don't employ my people at the Ministry to write me speeches, if you're not aware, I'm saying the vast majority of the performances out of my head, see, so let's be correct, let's focus on the matter that we're talking about helping people here, about helping people continue to be effective, fair, transparent. That's what this press we're discussing today is here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u25	Thank you. Now, Mrs Oulehlová, with a point of fact, and then Mrs Urbanová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u26	Hello, dear colleagues, today is exactly the year when I, as then mayor of Sokolov City at 13:00, convened a crisis crew and began to address the help of Ukraine. I had six Ukrajinec at home with my husband on Sunday, including a two-month-old. We learned everything as we marched, we did everything as we marched. I said here once that I was very excited to come to the Chamber of Deputies meeting on Tuesday, where we will definitely discuss how to proceed, and we have dealt with the collisions at sea and Antarctica. Okay, cities, regions, we've all worked out, citizens of this country have managed. Eventually, the government came along, and somehow we learned to live with it and help purposefully. I'm not going to say that there aren't really funds back to this day that the regions have spent mostly on KACPU. But there's one thing I'd like to say right now. On January 17, at an emergency meeting here, Minister Rakušan said that there are modern crises. I kept wondering what the modern crisis meant. For me, a crisis is a crisis, but I already know what a modern crisis is. The government brings everything to the others and then comes here and says, "We came up with our heads up because we're leaders to help." Not you. The leaders of aid are citizens of our country, region and city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u27	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, Mrs Urbanová will speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u28	Only in response to my colleague Vildumetzová. With regard to the resolution on the Russian terrorist regime, it was a resolution coming from a foreign committee, which means that it speaks abroad, we say something to our foreign partners. And you're right about one thing, it was proposed to the government, and you suggested that we thank the mayors and the captains, but we also supported you. Well, I don't know why you're blaming us for not designing it. There could have been many and many other things proposed, but the result was that we supported you, we voted for you, and believe me, there were a lot of people who told me that this wasn't part of the foreign resolution, but I was the one who supported you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u29	Thank you, Madame. Now, with Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, in fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u30	Thank you for the floor. Just a short response - I think the entire Chamber of Deputies probably supported it, and I was very surprised when we got the resolution, we put it on the table, that it wasn't automatic. I am simply convinced that the refugee crisis and the whole thing since 24 February have been managed by both mayors, captains, firemen, policemen, rescue workers, but, above all, huge thanks are needed by citizens for solidarity and humanitarian aid. So it was a reaction, of course, to what was going on here between Minister Jurečka and Mrs Pastuchová about thanking her. It really bothered me that it wasn't in the resolution. I think it was supposed to be there automatically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u31	Thank you, Madame. Before I give you the floor in the debate, I will read the apology: Berkovcová apologizes to Jana throughout the day for health reasons, Janda Jakub from 13:00 for work reasons, Kott Josef from 14:00 - health reasons, Mašek Jiří the whole day - health reasons, Schillerová Alena from 9.45 to 10.45 - working reasons, Válková Helena within 10 hours - health reasons, Vích Radovan the whole day - health reasons and the last apology is an apology from Mr Milan Wenzl from 11 o'clock for health reasons. We will therefore continue the debate. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová is another logged in. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u32	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, Dear Members of the Government, Colleagues, I am therefore very pleased that the quotation marks have been answered so that the lex Ukraine V negotiations will be attended by all senior ministers affected by this because the deadlines have been shortened. Those deadlines were one-, two-, three-day and at first reading and at second reading only Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka was always present, where there was a big debate about emergency accommodation, about the humanitarian contribution, but of course we are interested in the answers related to the Lex Ukraine V, and this is, above all, that from 1 April the regional assistance centres under the Ministry of the Interior have been transferred to the Department of Asylum Migration Policy. And my question is to the Minister of Finance, if he could answer us, why, if today - even here in some way, we had a minute of silence, a year's anniversary - why, then, after a year of stressing the region, have perfectly ensured the operation of the regional assistance centres, why do they not have the costs paid to date with the operation of these centres? For example, the Karlovy Vary Region and Prague were not paid in large amounts. At the Karlovy Vary Region it is approximately 14 million crowns, with Prague it is 20 million crowns. This is because Prague had it at the Congress Centre, the Karlovy Vary Region in KV Arena, but also the other regions do not have paid costs, for example for things such as the fact that regional assistance centres worked for workers from the regional office, so they do not want to pay for it, and other costs. I think it's very unfair to these countries. They've secured it all, they've secured it, and if they haven't gotten all the expenses paid after all this time, I think that's unfair. And I would like to point out that they were practically helpful to you because the emergency was over. 30. 6. 2022, and they didn't have to run it anymore. Then they agreed with the Home Secretary that they would continue to run it, but they didn't have to run it. It could've gone under the Home Office or some other resort, right away. They're running it until March 31, 2023, and I'm asking you, Minister of Finance, if you would really answer me when the regions will have all the costs paid. Question two: The amount of emergency accommodation has been raised, approved by the government. It is certainly a step she has decided to take, but again it is said from the regions that the Ministry of Finance does not pay these costs or pay them with a great delay. According to the information I have, you received a letter, received it by the Prime Minister, the Minister of the Interior, and the amount is relatively large for those regions. It's already worth about CZK 1 billion. Again, if the regions today provide emergency accommodation for people fleeing the war, there are almost 70,000 of them, so if the regions provide it, please pay them back, and pay them the way they're supposed to be reimbursed, and not to wait for it for months. Next, I'm sure I miss the local development minister in these benches, which I've seen here several times today, but he always goes somewhere. And to him, I would have a question that concerns emergency accommodation and that, because all Members received a letter from the Union of Cities and Cities with great concern about what will happen to these people, so now that we are reducing the emergency accommodation to 150 days, so what will happen to these people. Mayors are afraid of this, because today it is clearly announced that 270,000 Czech citizens are already in housing distress, and unfortunately the capacity in municipal housing funds and the real estate market is not, so whether the Minister for Regional Development would tell us how he will deal with it or how he will deal with it, because the validity and effectiveness of this law will be as soon as possible, when it is passed at this time through a legislative process, but it can be assumed - I do not know whether it is there since March or April. So I hope the Minister of Regional Development will come and answer this, or I'll come back and ask you one more time. The third question is to the Home Secretary, who came to see me, that unfortunately he has to leave for some serious work reasons, maybe he'll hear me. My question, above all, would be in the context of the regional assistance centres, because, indeed, by crossing the regions from 1 April to 1 April, the only question I would have to ask is: They are concerned that the Minister of the Interior may again come to the Chamber of Deputies and ask for an emergency, and they are asking under what conditions, because if the situation occurred again, the regional assistance centres would automatically go under the operation of the regions. So I know it's still mentioned if it were to increase, or possibly the arrival of refugees would be higher than 20,000, but if this was communicated in any way. So I see that the Minister of the Interior has already arrived, so if he, from his position as Minister of the Interior, because I know that he is also very intensively dealing with this, he could comment on the reimbursement of the costs of regional assistance centres. So that's on my part and I'd be happy to, if that's what I'm hoping to get all the answers for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u33	Thank you. It is now registered with a factual remark by Minister Stanjura. Please, you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u34	Thank you for the floor, I'll answer the lady. It's hard to answer a general statement that's false that someone's been waiting months for a refund. Payment of invoices for accommodation is processed within 10 working days at the Ministry of Finance when the request comes from the county. I know exactly because I sign all the budget measures myself. So there's no problem. If the Member believes that there is a delay of a month, please make a specific case. [[11.10 hours]] There are two exceptions. This concerns the costs of so-called lost earnings, we settled with Prague. They say KCP, lost profit. First, they forget that it is a joint company of the state and Prague, about half. The KCP is in good economic results for 2022. I just talked to the principal about it two days ago. In Karlovy Vary there is an issue of about 1 million or 1500 000, I don't know exactly now, I'm sorry. I don't have any background on the so-called lost profits for the hockey players paying rent somewhere else. This simply cannot be paid according to the rules that have been set. It's not evil will, we're looking for a solution, but it's not that trivial. We can't just send 1.3 or 1.4 million - I'm really sorry I don't know exactly - without a title. I've already discussed this with the Governor about twice, we're looking for a solution intensively. We haven't found him yet, that's true, but it's not the amount you said, 14, but 1.3 or 1.4 million. It's the only item in the individual items that the Karlovy Vary Region has reported. So we really pay within 14 days, within 10 working days, when the bill comes from one or which particular region. If you're interested, I'm able to prove if you'll give me a day to write down when, in which month it came, from which region, and when the money left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u35	Thank you, Minister, for keeping time. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová will do another de facto. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u36	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Minister, thank you for your answer, which in no way satisfied me, because you say that everything from the regions is okay, that the regions have all been paid for. You didn't receive a letter from the Association of Regions that reminds you that you're not paying for emergency accommodation, that the Ministry of Finance already owes more than a billion crowns to the regions today? Yes, the second thing is Karlovy Vary and Prague. Okay, you explained that to me. But you didn't pay the other counties the ones they had with the reimbursement of the regional assistance centers. Yes, it's not in millions, it's in ten-- hundreds of thousands. But the county secured it all. You said to them, "Please make it all safe, we'll pay you back." The county secured it all, and now you don't want to cash it in. Well, I don't know, if you were the governor, I'm sure you wouldn't like it either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u37	Thank you, Madame. Now, with a response with a factual remark, Minister Stanjura, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u38	I respect that the Member has become an unofficial spokesperson for the Association of Regions. But I rule it out, and I call it a lie that there's a billion crowns worth of invoices somewhere. Prove this to your false claim. It's just not true.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u39	Thank you. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová will respond to the facts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u40	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Last reaction. Minister, did you receive a letter from the County Association that there is no reimbursement of emergency accommodation? That's a fact you can't deny here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u41	He's getting off now... With factual or preferential rights, Mr. Secretary? [[I'd rather have a priority.]] Yes, Minister Vít Rakušan will now speak with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u42	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. I'd rather you didn't turn me off, but I hope I can make it in two minutes, as if it were a factual remark. I'm sorry, I was here on live TV, and I didn't hear the whole question of Mrs Vildumetzová, but the end did, so I will try to answer that. Really from 1. 4. the operation of regional assistance centres of Ukraine takes over under the Ministry of Interior. I've been communicating with the County Association. The Regional Association has a positive opinion on this, agrees with that. We even agreed on funding. The preliminary amount for the annual operation of regional assistance centres is estimated at CZK 300 million, while, of course, an adequate proportion of these funds will be paid to the regions for still operating the regional assistance centres of Ukraine by the end of March of this year. This is all settled. We also agreed on the ex post principle, which, if they operate only three months this year, does not mind the reimbursement of the costs associated with the activities of these centres. At the same time, the system will be set up so that there will be three centres around the Czech Republic that will operate 24/7. Regional assistance centres as such, the others, will no longer be forced to keep this traffic going. This will, of course, be adapted to the established practice of this year. Yes, logically, at a time when this would occur - but no data, whether from the Ukrainian Ministry of the Interior or from the Ukrainian Security Community, suggest this at this time - if there was an ungodly wave of a larger scale that would require some legislative measures such as an emergency situation, even if we do not anticipate it, then, of course, and logically, the regions would be demanded according to applicable crisis legislation. The system is very quickly adaptable to make the regions again those who ensure the operation of individual centres. But I want to stress again here, we don't expect it. We want a standardised regime, whereby the Ministry of the Interior coordinatedly, centrally operates regional assistance centres to help Ukraine, starting with 1. 4. It's a symbolic date, 31. 3. end the first year of temporary protection. Lex Ukraine IV has been extended for one year. We are starting from that date and following what we are discussing today, in many areas, to apply a new system. It is also the system of organisation of work, where, for example, the provision of emergency accommodation and better offers across the whole Republic can certainly be better organized when the Ministry of the Interior takes place. As far as the reimbursement is concerned, according to my information, the costs are up to the edge mentioned by Minister Stanjura, which means Prague...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u43	I'm sorry. Colleagues, colleagues, please keep it down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u44	Thank you, Madam Vice-President. I taught little kids, I'm used to it. So the point is, of course, at this point in time, these processes are centralizing and we have the costs to be reimbursed. I'm in contact with Mr. Governor Kulhánek on his specific case. We've been through this for the last time this week, and I think we're gonna find a solution here, too, so that the Karlovy Vary Region doesn't lose any of the funds that belong to it. The other officers, from the way I approached them, do not have a problem with the payment of funds at this time. I don't know if there's any historical letter. If it exists, it's an outdated affair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u45	Thank you, Minister. Mr Okleštěk signed up with the facts. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u46	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Members of the government, colleagues, I disagree with you, ministers, because you owe the Olomouc Region 47 million. So it's not true that everything's fine. If you do not know the system, they will be billed to the government or simply to the ministers. You owe 47 million to Olomouc County so far. As far as KACPU is concerned - it's not stupid, I hear your cries, but I've already checked it at the office so I don't tell you nonsense, so that's one thing - the other thing: I understand it, that's ridiculous, there's some 1.5 million. But I think you'll get even very soon. So the way you bang your boobs, it's all paid for - it's not. I'm not complaining, but you're not telling the truth.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u47	Thank you. In response to Mr Stanjura's speech, he applied to the actual Minister Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u48	Now that we're using strong words, I didn't yell at you that it was stupid, just to be clear. I'm gonna ask you about the microphone for how long... I told you it took us 14 days to get an invoice before we could run some kind of control system. You understand that for tens of millions. So, yes, if it's from 10 to 14 working days, it's true. I didn't say it was online, that the moment it came, we were writing a payment order in three minutes and sending 47 million. So if you're saying we owe 47 million, the legitimate question is when the request came and when it was or will be settled, and let's compare the interval. Perhaps we can agree that, with such high amounts, some control activities must also be carried out. [[11.20 hours]] I promised your colleague that I would have it processed, if I thought it was an extra administration, I would have it processed for the entire period of time when, from which the county's application came and when it was paid because it's like one lady... I didn't talk to the governor about it. Nobody complained. So it's really very hard to react now that we don't know how long the invoice has been outstanding. That's the key. I just can't do it online.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u49	Thank you, Minister. We have therefore exhausted the factual - and yet, Mr Okleštěk has made a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u50	Thank you for the floor. Minister, I am pleased with your offer, and I would like to ask for the statistics on the actual payments that are being made. And then, of course, if it's in 10 days, I don't have a problem with that. I heard here there was no debt, I heard on the edge that the debt was, so they could inform me on the edge with some time slip. And if I get that information, of course I'm taking it back. But if that's not the case, of course I stand up for myself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u51	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We have therefore exhausted the factual points and are returning to the debate where Mrs Jana Hanzlíková is the last one to sign up so far. Please, you have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u52	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to bring your attention to a rather different area than what has now been discussed in the area of payment of benefits. And I would like to say that I am very pleased that this press has made it possible to clarify the conditions for payment of the humanitarian benefit and also the housing benefit, the so-called solidarity household benefit. I also acknowledge the system of so-called vulnerable people, because, like our Czech citizens, I always argue that we must ensure that vulnerable groups have special conditions, so, of course, that is true in this case. But it's important to point out here that these benefits are paid at the branches of the Labor Office, and that's kind of an evergreen here lately. We are dealing with this very often on the Committee on Social Policy, because the employees of the Labour Office are really long-term and significantly overloaded. What they had to process last year was such a huge leap increase, which historically never occurred at the employment offices. Moreover, of course, these are not only benefits relating to refugees from Ukraine, but they are new benefits, such as last year's payment of a 500-thousand-dollar contribution, which, of course, are all very positive things that we agree with, but have to process in some way, and that is really a problem for overloaded workers at the Bureau of Labour. Moreover, because it is also a problem of people leaving the office of work and that it is really very hard to get new ones, the problem cannot be solved very well. For the truth, he basically gives me a fresh letter from trade union organizations, which is a lot of digitalization, because although we agree with it, and probably when it's all worked out, it'll bring some time savings, but at present the employees of the Labor Office are still complaining about it, and it basically brings them even more work. So that's my appeal to the Department of Labour and Social Affairs, that even though, of course, this press will be approved here, so that it doesn't forget to deal with these things and really help the workers of the Labor Office to handle everything. I still see a similar problem with district social security administrations and health assessment of people with temporary protection, because once again it is a long-term problem where there is a really significant lack of assessment doctors, and of course any other number of people who need to assess their health will appear on the overload of work. So, please, I appeal to the Ministry, and I just wanted to draw real attention to these two risk areas at the third reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u53	Thank you, Madame. I have an announcement to make. Mr Lochman, excused at 11:00, cancels his apology. Please, does the Member sign up for debate or de facto? For the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u54	Thank you for the floor. I would just like to make an announcement - that we have practically a vote in a moment - that we have not received an answer from the Minister for Regional Development regarding housing provision for people who will be leaving after 150 days of emergency accommodation. I think that he should make this clear, and that all Members have received a letter from the Union of Cities and Communities, where it has been clearly pointed out. I'm assuming he's not excused, so I don't know if he's gonna interrupt the meeting to comment on that right now. I think it's pretty important. It falls into his department, he's the Deputy Prime Minister, and I assumed that he was here today to comment. We've also announced it, so - I already see the Minister, so I hope he'll take the time to comment on us in some way. And on that occasion, I want to wait for what he has to say and, if necessary, we are prepared to put some accompanying resolution in there, because we understand - I have also talked to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs about this - that they have come up with this proposal, but on the other hand we must also help those mayors how they will deal with this in cities and municipalities. So I'd like to hear the instructions and the reaction to the letter from the Minister of Regional Development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u55	Thank you, Madame. Mr Okleštěk came forward with a factual comment. I'm sorry, Mr. Secretary, did you want to take action or... Thank you. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u56	Thank you, so for Minister Stanjura. On 9 January, an invoice of 22 million, not paid, and 14 February, 24 something, so together almost 47 - that's 10 days, I still respect that today. But look at this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u57	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Minister Jurečka will now speak with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u58	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I will take the liberty of speaking here and in the proper debate at the end and of saying some important facts. For one thing, this printing is another clear shift of our concrete assistance as a whole company of the Czech Republic, so that we can adjust the parameters even better, refine them, create space for better, fairer conditions in terms of really controlling those who ask for help if they have any other income to really address the help where it is needed. At the same time, there is a clear definition of vulnerable groups in this press, such as parents with young children under the age of three, such as people of retirement age or such as people and people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u59	I'm sorry, Minister. [[The O.R. suddenly went quiet.]] Thank you, colleagues, colleagues, thank you for the silence. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u60	Thank you, thank you very much. So this is really the key to what we have to pay our attention to, and it is also an important message to the entire Ukrainian community of war refugees in the Czech Republic that they know that these conditions will be adapted. There will be a three-month transitional period and we, as a government, have instruments to evaluate the situation at the end of June, and we still need to adjust and prolong, such as support for solidarity households. But this message is clear at this point in time that, above all, people who are in this so-called emergency accommodation regime today do not belong to vulnerable groups of residents so that they know that they have to change some of their behavior and head to the labour market first...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u61	I apologize again, Minister, for interrupting. Please colleagues here in the left and, of course, in the right part of the silence, if you could transfer your calls to the foyer. Thank you. Mr. Secretary, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u62	Thank you. They're supposed to go to the labour market, they're supposed to have more activity in finding their own housing. I'll also say with permission a few specific numbers, which I now have here from the data output, which we have through the Labor Office system. To date, when we look at this, we now have 96,000 applications for the so-called humanitarian benefit in terms of the number of requests for the so-called humanitarian benefit in February. Let me remind you that the highest number here was in May 2022, when these applicants were 244 926. Here was the question of the overload of the Office of Labour in the context of the Ukrainian refugee crisis, so now I want to add data which clearly shows that there has been no overload of the Office of Labour in this area for this reason in the context of the Ukrainian refugee crisis in recent months. The reason is elsewhere, because for the humanitarian benefit, which we started from the beginning as well as as as the possibility of submitting it electronically, we are in a situation where in March there was 36 percent of the submission via the web application. Today we are at a value that is: 96 percent of applicants serve over a web interface. When we look at the method of administration, in September last year 75 percent of these applications went through the entire Labor Office process completely digitally without the intervention of people who would have to serve it administratively in some way. Today we are at a value: 92 percent of these applications will go through the entire Labor Office system up to the payment gateway. Thanks to the pairing of data from the registers of cooperation with the interior and others, this enabled this, so that in connection with the humanitarian dose, we cannot talk about this causing overload and delaying the payment of other benefits to Czech citizens. The same is true when we look at the solidarity contribution, where we have been running from the beginning fully online submission and even fully digitally processing the entire agenda. Indeed, these are not the reasons that could be referred to as what hinders payout for Czech citizens. The reasons that slow down and cause delays for Czech citizens are really in other reasons. The long-term issue is the failure to address personnel status, remuneration, sharing and how to allocate a work agenda, human resources management. These are the other things, but they are being dealt with very intensively at the moment, so that we can also manage this, get under control. I'll go back to what's been mentioned here in general. It was used here that the government of the Czech Republic was not active enough, did not act sufficiently, did not support the form of aid. I want to say no. I have no ambition here at all to argue about any resolutions, which I think is a matter that is not relevant, is not important. The key thing is that this society, these people at all different levels, both formal and informal, has done their utmost to make it work. It's a historic moment. He thanked the President of Ukraine Volodymyr Zelenskyj publicly. He also thanked Czech citizens on the visit we were at as a government of the Czech Republic. We've reinterpreted the thank you. I think that in this respect really respect for everyone who has helped in different forms according to their capabilities and abilities is obvious and obvious here. And I think we've tried to create, to the maximum extent possible, the terms of our departments' competence to ensure that there's a system for helping, that there's funding for help. This is what this state has provided, giving these people the opportunity to start working, language education, so that these people can feed themselves, they can return resources to public finances. Let me just remind you, last year's overall estimate of how much these people contributed to public budgets is over CZK 8 billion. These are all facts and facts that did not happen randomly, but because the process was somehow managed, it had legislative support, and this is happening now. And allow me to make a complete comment at the end.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u63	Colleagues, colleagues, I've asked you to keep your voice down a few times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u64	My point at the end is that I am very sorry when the criticism was here, and it was justified 14 days ago that there was a small participation of ministers in the intercessions, and I wasn't here 14 days ago either, because we had a spring break at home, and unfortunately now is the spring break period, when part of ministers also try to be home with their families, so I also missed 14 days ago. But last night, we were here at the patronage, and I think that practically everyone was interppelated. The Prime Minister has been on a business trip abroad, duly excused, which I think is understandable, and I have been patient here with my colleagues, I think, factually, in fact, to the questions that have been raised here by opposition Members. And this morning, at 10:00 p.m., I heard a reading of points on the agenda of a meeting that, for example, concerned my agenda, which I answered yesterday during the intercessions here. I'm sorry that only those who interpelled were sitting here yesterday at opposition interventions. The others who might have heard the answers didn't hear them. And then here are the questions in a situation where we were able to deal with other important topics, things that were said and answered less than 24 hours ago. So please, this really is the not-so-efficient time of the House. Look at the stews from last night. My colleague Rais has been intersecting me here in the area of pensions, in the area of education, which is what I've been answering for. All you have to do is look at the stews, they're publicly traceable, the answers are there. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u65	Thank you, Minister. With priority rights, Minister Bartoš is now registered. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u66	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues, I'm just going to respond because I've been explicitly questioned here. Of course, since the beginning of the crisis and the Russian attack on Ukraine as the Ministry of Regional Development on the strategic team, we have been dealing with the issue of helping regions and accommodation, possibly some temporary accommodation, and increasing those capacities. Of course, I would like to thank not only the team under Vít Rakušan and the firefighters with the construction of the KACPU system and the involvement of other capacities in the accommodation regime of people who are fleeing, or families who are fleeing from the war, as well as all people who have taken someone from Ukraine into their home at their expense. Here was the question that was repeated in the question of what was going to happen and whether there was a risk that a larger number of people could suddenly no longer benefit from the benefits or help from the state in the form of housing provided, and whether at that time there was a risk that these people would end up on the street from day to day because they would be removed from temporary accommodation. I would like to say, and yet the proposal of lex Ukraine V is conceived, that there are various transitional periods that this, and we discussed this very thoroughly...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u67	Minister, I am so sorry to disturb you. Colleagues, colleagues, please give the Minister the room to present his contribution, and also in view of the fact that we have a visit from young people, please give them an example. [[At the public gallery.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u68	I'm not going to solve individual numbers here. I think that around 19 000 people are now registered in these, say, solidarity households, and of course, the transition or change in the conditions for providing assistance to accommodation has a gradual run-up and there are a number of ways that, if someone is using such accommodation, can further negotiate an extension, if it corresponds to its financial possibilities, there is already a need to be employed here in some contract or work-time regime, actually go smoothly in continuing the accommodation. We have dealt with all of this very thoroughly in connection with the fact that there are groups among these people and groups that can be defined as endangered mothers with more children, people who have not been able to find work during the asylum that they spend here. All this Lex Ukraine V remembers. [[11.40 hours]] I was also asked from the point of view of capacity increases. We are within the Lex Ukraine The Ministry of Regional Development prepared an amendment to Act No. 2011/2000 Coll., on the State Investment Support Fund, as amended, where the scope of this amendment is a much larger extension of the range of provision of a long-term vacant flat to rent or rent. This is an extension of the possibility of using the State Investment Fund funds to provide a long-term vacant apartment for rent and rent. We have defined, for example, the guarantee fund, which is in preparation, we are piloting it until the end of April 2023 in the Pardubice Region, after evaluation it is possible to change this regime to the whole Republic. It is a moment when, through some kind of financial motivation and the instrument, we will allow the involvement of private apartments, who may have a two-generation home and would like to help in this way and at the same time rent the apartment that is there to help solve the refugee crisis. There's quite a lot of stuff in there. We are at the beginning of the war crisis - and it is true that we did not fully know at the moment the needs that will arise with the arrival of a larger number of people in the Czech Republic, where actually about half a million people registered in KACPU, where the vast majority of people live in some type of commercial lease at the moment, which, of course, was said here by Vice-President Dostálová, has an impact on the level of rents in the Czech Republic in general - set up the program Ukraine. The government allocated about 900 million crowns to it. It is true that, as we set the conditions, the program was successful in roughly a quarter, the number of applications received to build the one bed, whether housing of the type of hostel, or some accommodation that has shared social facilities, as well as reconstruction of apartments in the property of the municipality, in the end it ran out of a little over 200 million crowns, which is not much. [[Noise in the hall.]] On this basis, we have redesigned - and it was also a task from the strategic team - the Ukraine Programme I into some parameters of the Ukraine II programme, which, from the point of view of municipalities, but also churches, charities and even the non-profit sector, would be, say, more economically meaningful...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u69	Colleagues! Sorry, I'm very sorry, Minister. Please, Mr. Foldyna, if you want to have some conversations, take them outside, be so kind. And please also other colleagues, whether on the right or in the left side of the Chamber, to keep their voices down. If you have something important, leave the meeting room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u70	Optimism also inspires me with the fact that when we first started the Ukraine I program, although the conditions were unknown, it was registered from the territory that it could be up to the capacity of CZK 7 billion, of course, after adjusting the conditions that may have been close to the conditions of social housing. The interest was lower, on the basis of feedback from the regions, we evaluated individual parameters and on the basis of the evaluation of the programme, the programme will be defined by Ukraine II, which will be on the construction, reconstruction of flats, purchase of buildings and their subsequent reconstruction into apartments for accommodation of Ukrainian refugees. Even in the original Ukraine programme There is also some length of protection and then these capacities remain, of course, in the property of individual investigators, whether it is a community or charity and others. The target groups, which we have therefore defined, are therefore, according to priority, refugees within the ORP, with temporary protection within the ORP, persons from temporary accommodation and others. Applicants may be a territorial self-governing unit, a municipality, a county, a union of municipalities, in the case of the capital city of Prague, the applicant may be the municipal part, in the case of other territorially divided statutory cities the applicant of a municipal district or a municipal part, provided that legal persons in which an over-half ownership of a territorially autonomous unit, a church, a church organisation, a non-governmental organisation with at least five years' experience in providing housing are entitled. We are also working either on the question of actual absorption capacity, whether, therefore, if such an object is, it is possible to transform it into this accommodation, then provide it. Only to the parameters of the upcoming challenge. I've got the terms listed here, and I'm not gonna burden you with those. This is 85% of the subsidy, 15% of the applicant's participation. If there are further questions, I can, of course, go into very clear or detailed graphs about how many people are in which type of accommodation, where the smooth transition relates, who has the opportunity to ask for it further, who has the opportunity to negotiate the continuation of the accommodation as it is now. [[He's showing the chart.]] Of course, since the war - today we have this sad date of the year since the beginning of the war - as the conflict continues, more and more people are simply already in some regime, that they go to work or work under a contract. Of course, even the situation from the point of view of residence entitlement after such a long period of time has changed significantly. For us, it is important to accelerate construction and rental housing in parallel to the problem of the people who are here because of the war in Ukraine, which will probably take some further meetings. However, Vice-President Dostálová proposed this even as a point for today's meeting, but I do not think - and I see it now rather on social networks, when we remember this sad date, year after the beginning of the war - when someone constantly submits to people that helping Ukraine is at the expense of citizens in the Czech Republic. I just reject this interpretation - we can see where the wind is blowing from. The housing situation in the Czech Republic has had a significant downward trend since about the 1990s. When I heard a lot of reservations about the current government here at the beginning of today, or the work of the Ministry of Regional Development, I hope everyone knows that in the year of the government's activities we will not build a housing fleet, whether it is the length of the construction itself, authorisation. And I would therefore be very careful in this assessment: this government has fallen asleep, it does not act. These people have housing, we accommodated them, but the situation that has had a downward trend since the 1990s, and over the past eight years it has been the YES movement that had the Ministry of Regional Development in its administration, so I find these reservations a little odd, unless it is also a criticism of the current work of the movement in this department.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u71	Thank you, Minister. Your performance brought up two factual points. First, Vice-President Klára Dostálová, then Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u72	Thank you for the floor. I would like to thank the Minister for speaking, but that is precisely why - he was talking about it here - we should have fun about it because it must be a set of instruments, it simply cannot be solved by allowing municipalities to occupy long-term vacant flats. I'm saying the apartments on the market aren't because they meet more aspects of why they're not. I said, for example, that our students are getting more expensive, and naturally, they will be looking for housing on the market to move in, like, three or four for high costs, so that, of course, college students can tighten it up. And all I'm saying is that by reducing the fact that it's only 150 days, the Lex Ukraine is about 70,000 Ukrainian fellow citizens are going to go to the housing market, that they're just not flats. In addition, mortgages are getting more expensive, which means young people are also starting to look for rental housing, and the instruments from the state are equal to zero. So let's agree that I understand that we're not gonna build apartments like this by snapping our finger, but we have to do the tools. So let's help municipalities renovate apartments, but not just for Ukrainian refugees. That's why they didn't draw on you. The billions were barely out of 200 million. Play it for everyone, even for young people, because, of course, the community will be distracted naturally. Let's deal with multigenerational mortgages so that young people don't run away from property housing, and let's solve multigenerational homes. That's a lot of music for a few bucks, because really in those multigenerational houses it's enough to divide into two separate entrances and social facilities and, of course, the offer of flats on the market will be bigger. I'm just worried that everything is rushing and that the corridor is getting really narrow and that we can really get into a situation that those people in the finals aren't gonna have a place to live, and the municipalities aren't gonna be able to deal with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u73	Thank you. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová will perform with another de facto, and Minister Jurečka will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u74	Madam Vice-President, thank you for the floor. I would also thank the Minister of Regional Development for his reply, but I would very much like him to read the letter very carefully from the Union of Towns and Communities, where they are clearly saying that there are exceptions in this law usually for vulnerable people, but that there will still be a large number that can get into the housing emergency and without shelter. And I would certainly like to follow up on my colleague, Klára Dostálová, who clearly said: Yes, let's approve Lex Ukraine V, but let's do this. Let's go help those mayors, let's go find the tools! But even since we know that even 270 000 Czech citizens are in a housing emergency, let's find the tools, let's sort this out somehow. Therefore, I would like to propose an accompanying resolution, which I would very much like this Chamber of Deputies to support unanimously, even in connection with what we have received from the Union of Cities and Municipalities just like all Members: "The House calls on the Minister for Regional Development to prepare a series of measures to increase the availability of rental and cooperative housing in the Czech Republic following the Lex Ukraine in guaranteed housing for only the first 150 days." I'll pass it on to the Vice-President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u75	Yes, thank you. I will therefore ask you for a motion for a resolution. I wonder if no one is yet reporting for the debate? If no one reports, I am done with the debate. Is the Minister interested in the final word? Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u76	Thank you. I'd like to evaluate the whole process in the final word. I would like to publicly thank the opposition for its constructive approach, too, because we agreed on this proposal to discuss it rather quickly with the shorter deadlines. I would like to thank you for this, I also want to thank you for some really very concrete constructive initiatives that have also been reflected in the submission of the amendment or amendments, which we will be voting on in a moment. I want to appreciate that, too. I must say that this law really is a clear and materialization of what has, of course, been realized in the previous Lex Ukraine I to IV, but also the actual materialization of the solidarity of the Czech state, the Czech society, and how we can stand up to such a challenge as helping hundreds of thousands of people who are forced to leave their homes because of the war, their country, who are at risk in their lives, whose loved ones are dying, who are defending their country in such a way as people in Ukraine today. In conclusion, I can only take one more comment: when I listened to Vice-President Klára Dostálová's speech, so if I put it on my own, I would be very careful in this assessment of housing. Not that she's not right in many ways, but given that she's been a minister at the Ministry of Regional Development for four years and she's had this area gesture, so say the specific things to do right now, and how easy they are, her successor seems to me about as much like I was standing here in 2018 and telling my successor Mirek Toman what to do in the Department of Agriculture and what's wrong there. I'd feel a little uncomfortable, so that's just a little bit of my point at the end. But I want to thank you here in addition to some things where, of course, logically, the opposition and the coalition have different views on some things, different opinions, so I think that in substance, we were going to agree that help from us is necessary, necessary, and that there is a need to continue with the fairer, more targeted, more addressed rules, and for that I thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u77	Thank you, Minister. Madame, excuse me, Madam Vice-President, do you report? The debate is closed. With priority rights? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u78	Thank you very much, but I'm essentially going to use this à la de facto comment. I'd just like to point out here, and thank you for appreciating the fact that it had a ratio, what I said here. Just please, Minister, let us keep these comments from the current minister - the last minister, because it is necessary to admit the truth that is. Minister Bartoš stopped the Construction Program, stopped the support of cooperative housing for young people, so of course we are now in a situation that nothing is happening at all instead of continuing the programmes that have been set up for which municipalities have prepared projects. They're all waiting for what's going to happen, they just don't want to go into credit finance, and that's where the dog is buried. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u79	Thank you. I wonder if the rapporteur is interested in the final word? He doesn't. We will therefore proceed to the vote on the amendments. I ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee to inform us of the voting procedure, then to present the various amendments and to give an opinion on them before the vote. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u80	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. As noted in the third reading, no proposals were made pursuant to § 95 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure and the Committee on Social Policy recommends the following order: first, under the designation A, vote on the proposal by Mrs Ivana Mádlová, in short, on the logos, i.e. the release of Part Three of the Rules of Procedure. 4 which will therefore be cancelled and B therefore the second proposal specifying the conditions for proving the property of the applicants for humanitarian benefit, submitted and submitted by Mr Vít Kaňkovský. And then the vote on the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u81	Yes, thank you. I think the procedure is clear. If there is no objection, we would not vote on it - we would vote on it, yes, so I am interested in approving the procedure. Zagongujím, I'll call in colleagues from the lobby. We will vote on whether you agree to the proposal for a procedure, as presented by the rapporteur. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 78, 161 Members and Members signed up, for 159, against none. The motion was accepted. We will now proceed to the vote on the amendments. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u82	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. So, first of all, we will vote on proposal A, that is, Mrs Mádlová and others, concerning, in a nutshell, the logopedia.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u83	Initiating vote... Sorry, sorry, I declare this vote (number 79) confusing. Do I ask the plaintiff's opinion? [[Positive.]] Yes, Mr. Rapporteur? [[The opinion of the Committee was without an opinion, not accepted.]] So I'm taking the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 80, 161 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 156, against 1. The motion was accepted. [[Let's hear it from the YES benches.]] Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u84	And now the proposal under letter B, the proof of property, that is, Mr. Vít Kaňkovský's proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u85	The plaintiff's position? [[Positive.]] Committee opinion? [[Rapporteur: The Committee recommends.]] Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 81, 161 Members and Members voted in favour of 157, against none. The motion was accepted. [[12.00 hours]] All amendments have been voted on, so we will proceed to the vote on the bill as a whole. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 66/2022 Coll., on measures in the field of employment and social security in connection with armed conflict in the territory of Ukraine caused by the invasion of Russian Federation troops, as amended, and other related laws, pursuant to House press 374, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 82, 162 Members and Members signed up, for 160, against none. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. And now we would deal with the motion for an accompanying resolution, which Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová has tabled. [[Noise in the hall.]] I would like to read this accompanying resolution once more. [[The instructions from the diaper to keep the Members quiet.]] Yes, thank you, I beg you to calm down. The motion for an accompanying resolution is: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Minister for Regional Development to prepare a series of measures to increase and access rental and cooperative housing in the Czech Republic following the Lex Ukraine V, guaranteed housing for only the first 150 days.' I'm just gonna check, Madame, if she's okay like this? Yes. If there are no objections, we will vote on the motion for an accompanying resolution. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 83, 162 Members and Members, in favour of 70, against 12. The motion was denied. I would like to thank the rapporteur and the rapporteur, too, and I still have... [[Mrs Urban is gestured.]] To the vote, Madame?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u86	I am not questioning the vote, just for the tape screen - I voted in favour of the 80 vote, and I am against it at the junk. It was the opposition amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u87	Yes, well, only for the tape screen. I can still read the apologies: Milan Feranec apologizes at 13:00 for medical reasons. And I'm handing over the meeting proceedings. Thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-24-ps2021-053-04-001-102.u88	Afternoon, colleagues, we'll continue with point number
