ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-017-131.u1	131. Healthy insurance plans of health insurance companies for 2022 with government statement together with evaluation of health insurance plans for 2022 and table annexes / House printing 240/ This material will be provided by the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek. Minister, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-017-131.u2	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, allow me to state the material - an assessment of the expected development of public health insurance schemes on the basis of the medical insurance plans of 2022 active health insurance companies which are submitted for your consideration. This is like every year's retrospective material that says what insurance companies planned in 2021 for 2022. All health insurance plans for 2022 have already been approved by the health insurance authorities at the end of 2021 as they should be. The Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Finance subsequently assessed that the health insurance plans submitted by all health insurance companies were in line with legislation, public interest and payment decree for 2022, and the government agreed with them at its meeting on 23 March 2022. I could also read the individual parameters and financial data, you had insurance plans at your disposal and you have the material at your disposal. And I say again, it's retrospective material that tells us what insurance companies were planning for 2022, but 2022 is behind us and it turns out that the plans were correctly presented, that, on the contrary, the management turned out better than they planned. So let me get through these technical facts financial, which, if necessary, of course, I would like to answer any question in the discussion. On the information that none of the health insurance companies assumed as at 31 December 2022 the existence of liabilities, which has been confirmed, after the maturity vis-à-vis health service providers, the financial stocks in bank accounts in the reserve form of all health insurance companies are planned in accordance with the legislation. Thus, I repeat - at its meeting on 23 March last year, the government discussed the joint opinions of the Ministry of Health and Finance on health insurance plans for last year 2022 from Resolution 214 and the Government recommended that the proposed health insurance plans be submitted for 2022 by health insurance companies. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to discuss the proposal for its approval, and I am presenting it here. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, I am aware that we will approve this ex post. However, the procedure for approving health insurance plans is laid down by law, and I will therefore apologise to you for asking for the support of this material, as my predecessors did. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-017-131.u3	Thank you, Minister. This House press has been ordered by the Health Committee, whose resolution has been delivered to you as the House press 240/1. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Health, Mr Tom Philipp, inform us of the committee's deliberations and present a motion for a resolution to the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-017-131.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, let me introduce you to the resolution of the Health Committee of the 13th meeting of 31 August 2022. After discussion, the Committee recommends: The Chamber of Deputies to adopt the following resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies approves the health insurance plans of health insurance companies for 2022, together with the Government's statement on health insurance plans of 2022 and table annexes, the Parliament's press of 240' and so on. I would like to point out that this happens every year. This means that at this point, we will approve a document which is basically irrelevant in its own way. It might well be considered how we will approach these health insurance plans in the future in such a way that we approve them either at a time when this is appropriate, when it makes sense or, perhaps, abandon this practice. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-017-131.u5	I also thank and initiate the general debate in which Vice-President Skopeček and then President Schillerová have applied. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-017-131.u6	Thank you very much. I will not be long, but I will use this topic to return or draw attention to what will be discussed by the Board of Directors of the VZP at its meeting after the weekend on Monday and what we have already discussed in the working groups during this week, namely the annual report of the VZP, which, among other things, talks about the management of the insurance company for the past year. I just want to say that although the previous year was very difficult, both with regard to the reverberation of the covido crisis and especially the refugee crisis, when VZP adopted actually 90 percent of those refugees as its insured persons, even though at the beginning of the year the planned management was roughly -5 billion, if I remember correctly, in the final of last year for VZP ended in de facto balanced management, or deficit in the order of millions of crowns. All I'm saying is that it's not just the case of the General Health Insurance Company, but that it's the case of the whole Czech health care, that the previous year was handled, both in terms of care itself and, of course, in terms of financial aspects. Health insurance companies have very high reserves in their accounts, which is certainly good news of their financial stability. I would just like to point out that we have had meetings here in the Chamber of Deputies, where we have been terrified of how health care in the Czech Republic is threatened, how the financing and financial situation of Czech health insurance companies is dramatically threatened. No such thing happened, fellow Members, it was merely scaring people. Health care has been provided to a large extent, no one has lost it and the financial health of insurance companies is at a very, very good level. Please, colleagues from the YES movement, feel the conscience of the way you frightened people on this subject.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-017-131.u7	Thank you. President Schillerová is also in the debate, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-017-131.u8	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Allow me to use the proverb - this, of course, does not concern you, Mr Vice-President, through Madam Vice-President - to use the proverb Do not praise the day before the evening. I guess I'd start with that. Well, I think insurance companies have money in their accounts thanks to our government's policy, thanks to the fact that we regularly increased the payment for state insured people, and they were able to make those reserves. So the purpose now is to draw these reserves to the bottom, because when I look at this press here in the House press 240 - and unfortunately, today our expert and rapporteur, Mr. Dr. Kamal Farhan, is not here, so that he can get off - it ends with a deficit, which is essentially a deficit, it's some 9.5, if I'm reading it well from the material, so it's just a deficit. And if you're saying that the VZP is even - I don't know, I feel like there was a small deficit, too, but I don't have the background right now, so just what do you say, Mr Vice-President, through Madam Vice-President? You say they have reserves, so let's just crap them out now. Yes, we're warning about it, and we've warned that there's 14 billion public health insurance taken up here, and it's been created here, and there's been a compromise mechanism here. But what do we hear now? Well, maybe the Minister could distract us from worrying so we don't have to scare. We hear that he may be considering reducing the valorisation again or slowing down the valorisation for payment for state insured people, so I hope we're just hearing some rumors that won't be confirmed. I don't know, I've heard it from the union organization, I've heard it from multiple sides. So please, Minister, if you distract it, that this is not going to happen, that there will be no slowing down payments for state insured people in the coming years, then you will just calm us down. But, of course, the situation is not good. Yes, there are reserves created because we took care of health care, and now you're just saying, let's crap 'em out! What's next? It will be privatized, fees will be introduced, what will be next? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-017-131.u9	Thank you. But now it is with priority right before you, Minister, Mr Radim Fiala. There you go, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-017-131.u10	Just a brief response here to Vice-President Skopeček. It's just like the chairman of the YES club said. We said it would last this year, that the reserves are so big this year, but that the problems will come in the coming years, which is why we've been pointing it out. So it's not like that. I think it is premature to rejoice, and we will see what happens to Czech health care in economic terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-017-131.u11	Thank you. I have Mr Janulík's factual comment. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-017-131.u12	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Well, I wouldn't just be a passive part of health care, but also active decades, of course, I would walk around very carefully and tread carefully. It wasn't so long ago that we heard, and they listened to the call that we were supposed to dissolve money and so on, and none of us knew and could know that a covid was coming, and none of us knew and didn't even know what was coming at the same time. And the fact that the system works or works and that it's in such a condition is really because of the previous period, I fully sign it. But please note that inflation doesn't just affect pensioners, and it does, imagine that you are driving - and no matter whether it's a single or a thousand-headed health facility - and the health care facility must also deal with inflation. And imagine that you have some budget drawn up as director of the big hospital, and now all of a sudden, you're going to have energy going in there, and you're going to have all the inputs going up. And, of course, there is no room for price negotiations anymore de facto, because insurance companies, as they could afford to be generous, can no longer be at all. And the road, I've been repeating it for a few times, we've been experiencing it for decades. The path is then simple - it simply extends its maturity. And the whole spiral that's been going on for decades is going to spin again. And I'm saying, I'd walk very quietly and carefully around it, and let's be glad that's how it is. We see that if nothing major happens, let's believe it doesn't, it might be next year - but none of us know what's coming. I never thought I'd have a pandemic in my life, and I've just been there, so let's be careful.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-017-131.u13	Thank you for keeping time, and I just want to make sure we're at 13:00, so if there's a consensus that we're gonna finish this point? I'm looking around to see if anyone is fundamentally objecting, but it's not. Then there is another factual comment by Mr Brázdil. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-017-131.u14	I'll be very quick. Yes, we discussed it today at the VZP working groups. It's a good thing the financial devastation isn't bad at some level - good, good. But as far as personnel is concerned, you yourself know, and so does the Minister, not the personnel devastation of health care. And in this regard, if the money - and it was hard for any of us to say - had there been more money, perhaps some doctors would not have left if they were more satisfied with the funds raised, or it has to do with everything. [[13.00 hours]] But I just wanted to react, didn't I, money, well, it worked out, slightly minus, but it's not a health picture as such. People aren't, doctors aren't, nurses aren't, and it's probably in the future.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-017-131.u15	Thank you for keeping the time, now with priority rights is the Minister and then Vice-President Skopeček. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-017-131.u16	Thank you, Madam President. We're discussing the report that the insurance company planned, it's not the final report last year, but those are the plans from 2021 to 2022, and we can follow the plans, especially those who are members of the board of directors of insurance companies that have the final accounts, see and see how the insurance company was depheutic. It is good that the planner is depheusist, that it threatens bankruptcy, bankruptcy and collapse, but the insurance company's concerns were completely out of order, the management turned out dramatically better than the insurance company feared. But that's every year, if you look at the last ten years, no matter who's the Minister of Health and Government, the insurance company always does the same - not just VZP, but all of them. They say how bad it's gonna be, how they won't have money, how nothing's gonna stay, and then at the end, it's gonna turn out completely different. And it is a matter of conciliation to somehow balance the debate between how many providers they want and how many insurance companies can or cannot release. There's enough money on reserve funds, it's good that insurance companies are in good shape, so you can raise health care payments, last year it was 8 percent, it was 8% increase, which was quite a big increase. Plus, we put the money in one day's medicine, center care, so I could keep going. We have increased in a fundamental way, we have increased follow-up to the absolute essential. We were dealing with other areas, but my predecessors did it, also according to the priorities of individual governments. It never occurred to me that this could be a complex and conflicting material. Of course, concerns about the fact that there would be some debate about the change in the valorisation of payments for state insured persons, through Madam President, so I think, Madame, by your means, as well as I know that this is nonsense. It is something that all governments have tried since the revolution, all ministers have had it in different ways in their programmes, we have managed to approve this thanks to this Chamber of Deputies, thanks to this Senate, Mr. President Zeman has signed it and I am very pleased, or so it has passed through the approval process. Valorization must remain because valorization is a pillar, of course, but we must plan on how to proceed. I am glad that we are all aware of this across the political spectrum, because we will have to look for other ways, especially after 2032, 2033, when the number of state insured people will increase, but this is a matter for the long economic debate that is going on, and I am glad that MEPs are taking part both from the coalition and from the opposition that various economic experts are taking part in it. However, nothing can happen with the remuneration of state insured people, because what I said here, I will just repeat that we want to plan conciliation at two-year intervals, and with that I would like to hand over the Ministry of Health's resort. This has been supported by the Council of Providers, something that I think all of my health professionals consider important, important, and I therefore consider it important and important. I really do not see this material as completely conflicting, it is not criticism of nothing, it is merely proof that some of the things we have in legislation are not entirely optimal, because when an insurance company plans to manage in 2021 for 2022, then it is approved by individual bodies and the Chamber of Deputies will get to what the insurance company planned in 2023, I do not think it is comfortable for any of you, and I agree with what the rapporteur has said. Either we should change legislation in the sense that this will be discussed sooner by the Chamber of Deputies, or do what my predecessor suggested, after all, - not discussing this at all, the plans, that is what the board of directors are for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-017-131.u17	Thank you, too, and another one is signed in by Vice-President Skopeček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-017-131.u18	I'm just gonna keep it short. I may have caused this extension of my discussion, but I am simply unable to hear the dramatic haunting of people here a few months ago, as there is a danger of reducing health care, as there is a dramatic deterioration in the situation of financial health insurance companies, so that we can move forward, as nothing has happened, at a time when we simply have data from the accountant, which clearly tells us that the Czech insurance companies have managed to do so, that they have sufficient reserves and that there is simply no restriction on health care, as they have frightened us, and what scared us, but especially the citizens of the Czech Republic, the opponents of the opposition, so I think that this is simply not possible. On the point, Madam President, that there is a need to be careful, I agree with that, especially in the health sector, because this is a system where, thanks to both demographic trends and the development of new technologies, the demands on finance will be dramatically and dramatically greater, and it is a mistake that there have been no incentive steps in the past to ensure that health funding is at all manageable in the future, and if we do not do so, we are at risk of having health care and funding in future years. And as for your comment on privatisation, which was pejorative - I don't know, say it on the microphone if you have anything against private health facilities that provide quite a large amount of health care. I know a lot of them, I use their health services in a whole series, and they are often at a very high level, sometimes even higher than those of the state.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-017-131.u19	Thank you, and since I am no longer registering anyone else with an application, I am ending the general debate. I'm gonna ask if there's any interest in final words? I don't think so. I see an interest in opt-out, but will I ask if it is necessary to open up a detailed debate? No one is reporting for a detailed debate either, so I am ending the detailed debate. I'll sing for my colleagues. Once again, I will ask whether there is an interest in the final words in the detailed debate, but perhaps this is not the case. I see it's enough... I'm going to unsubscribe all of you, and I'm asking you to re-enlist with your I.D. cards. We'll wait for the numbers to settle. Just a little while longer, but it looks like we've stabilized our numbers. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 132, 117 in attendance, for 65, against no one. The motion was accepted. I'm done discussing this point, and I remind you that we'll meet again after the break at 2:30 p.m. for oral questioning. Thank you and enjoy your meal!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-20-ps2021-063-05-017-131.u20	Good afternoon, it's 2:30 and they're next.
