ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-001-019.u1	19. Government bill amending Act No. 416/2009 Coll., on Acceleration of the Construction of Transport, Water and Energy Infrastructure and Electronic Communications Infrastructure (Linion Act), as amended /Household Printing 410/ - First Reading On behalf of the Government, Mr Martin Kupka will present the proposal. Before I ask him to take the floor, I will again ask both sides of the hall to keep it down, as is customary in the morning. Thank you for the silence. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-001-019.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to put forward a proposal for an amendment to Act No. 416/2009 Coll., on speeding up the construction of transport, water and energy infrastructure and electronic communications infrastructure, the so-called Line Act. [[9.10 hours]] The main objective of this amendment is the implementation, i.e. the transposition of the directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 7 July 2021, which primarily concerns the application of the rules of the Line Act for the trans-European transport networks TEN-T, so that what, after all, during the Czech Presidency, has been able to enter into a revision of the TEN-T network so that all those transport key constructions are covered by the four hundred and sixteen form, i.e. the Act on speeding up line constructions. The implementation proposal brings some important changes. As I mentioned, everything contained in the basic network, i.e. core TEN-T, automatically becomes subject to the protection of the Linen Act, and so all authorisation will then run according to this law. This is one of the important changes that are contained there, but other specific adjustments are added to enable us to comply with the very European legislation. In this case, however, the effect will undoubtedly be positive, because we are concerned with a number of cross-border sections in the TEN-T network. In this case, it is European legislation that regulates who, and according to what legal order, will therefore follow, for example, the competition of the construction. And in this case, one of those countries in whose territory it will be, and that will be the key partner, will be the one who will determine the conditions of the very public commercial competition and the approval of the construction for the particular section. Another important change brought about by the amendment to the Act also includes precise conditions for the provision of preliminary information, even beyond the new building law, so that, if it is precisely the protection of Act 416, that all the authorities concerned there, all the institutions concerned have a direct obligation to inform the relevant key building office of what is happening in that territory, in the given intention takes place from the point of view of all the other protected interests, such as nature and landscape protection and the like. To be completed, I state that the amendment will not only apply to a specific list of all the buildings listed in Annex 2, but will really apply to everything related to the basic network, i.e. core TEN-T, and in investment costs exceeds EUR 300 million. At the same time it will also be specific railway and road terminals, which will be on the core TEN-T network. That, too, is one of the important changes the law brings. At the same time, I would like to add one specific change which concerns the Czech motorway and, respectively, the Czech road network, when Annex 2 lists it as a construction which will be approved according to the 400-sixteenth scale, namely the construction of D43, but there is a change in the marking of the communication. Nothing else changes. Last year at the same time, a decision was made that there would be four lines of communication, and the new designation is 1/73. For your idea, it is the connection between the D1 motorway and the future D35 motorway in the section between Brno and Moravská Třebová. As regards the other conditions of the legislative regulation, I mentioned international cooperation, for which the amendment now regulates the conditions. I specifically mentioned the information obligation, in order to obtain preliminary information on a significantly larger scale than in the case of constructions which are not permitted under the 400-sixteenth scale. And I mentioned that significantly changed circuit of buildings, which, according to the novel, the four hundred and sixty-six will apply to. In conclusion - yes, it is about being able to apply the functional instrument of Act 416 to constructions that are crucial for the Czech Republic, which also mean part of the Czech responsibility for the construction of the entire European, trans-European transport network, where the constructions of water, but also railway and road infrastructure are included. In this sense, the Line Act will extend to a wider list of buildings, including new railway and road terminals. I consider this change important, I consider it beneficial also for the economy of the Czech Republic. I assume there will be a number of further additions with the opening of this implementation law. We will certainly have to mention the necessary conditions and adjustments of the Czech situation for AFIR, an agreement which is formed at European level and which is intended to provide adequate infrastructure throughout Europe for recharging, but also for hydrogen filling on the basic trans-European network. This is certainly a matter that can be supplemented in the context of the negotiation of the law. Of course, there are other key things that we would like to do within the framework of the 40th century, as in the past, thanks to this legal instrument, to facilitate the path of transport structures and other line constructions into the world, so we would also like to take advantage of this in this case. Thank you very much for your attention and, at the same time, for the important steps that the proposed amendment includes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-001-019.u3	Thank you and I will now ask the rapporteur to take the floor, and this is Mr Ondřej Lochman. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-001-019.u4	Good morning, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. It is therefore a government bill amending Act No. 416/2009 Coll., on speeding up the construction of transport, water and energy infrastructure and electronic communications infrastructure, we commonly call this the Line Act. We're at first reading now. As the Minister, the translator, has already said, this is therefore a European transposition. The proposed bill is a comprehensive response from the European Union to the problems of investing in the TEN-T network. Here I will just remind you that the TEN-T network is a European network designed to connect individual Member States on both the road network, the railway network and the waterways. As far as this law is concerned, it is really an effort to complete this network early, especially by 2030, the overall global network by 2052. The transposition of European legislation is carried out in a minimalist variant, we often discuss it. Really, the design is very minimalist, and there is exactly what should be translated. There is an amendment to the law in these matters: firstly, a body will be set up as a contact point for the project developers within the TEN-T network, secondly, a time frame for administrative management in the framework of the preparation of key buildings, and thirdly, provision will be made for the provision and publication of information on construction sites, and fourthly, cooperation within cross-border projects will be established. Fifthly, specific rules will be laid down for public procurement in the case of cross-border projects. I personally consider this transposition to be necessary from the point of view of the fact that there is also European funding for TEN-T networks, and it will help us to complete the modes of transport that I have already mentioned. I repeat that we are at first reading, so I ask you to support and move to the guarantee committee so that we can discuss this law at other readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-001-019.u5	I thank the rapporteur, and I am now opening up a general debate in which Mr Martin Kolovratník is signed up. Please, Mr. Ambassador, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-001-019.u6	Thank you for the floor, good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Anyone who doesn't do anything wouldn't do anything wrong, so I'd probably put my speech on the subject of the Line Act. Both the Minister and the rapporteur said it nicely, sort of briefly, inconflictly. Of course, we will support this law, we will support its relocation to the committee, to the guarantee, i.e. economic. But in order to explain my introduction - who does nothing will spoil anything: he is the promoter, the Ministry of Transport, they have actually admitted to this transparently, they said it in the explanatory memorandum, which I quote: "The author of the bill has decided to proceed to a minimalist transposition when he proposes the optional provisions of the directive" - optional - "not to implement them in national law except for minor exceptions, not to put them in the Czech legal order, and to implement the mandatory provisions of the directive to the extent necessary only in cases that it has not been achieved by our other laws." In other words, Minister, you have really stepped up to a minimalist version, completely without ambition, with absolutely zero ambition. [[9.20 hours]] I'll just remind you of this law - and we know it, many of us colleagues remember it here, we were in opposite roles of coalition and opposition when the four-sixteenth, that line law when it became the law of the year. It was a parliamentary proposal on which 17 Members gathered us across the political spectrum: behind the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura, behind the KDU-ČSL Jiří Mihola and so on and so on. There were all the political entities that were here in the House at the time, and there we, friends, had the ambition, there we made the revolutionary change - not only eight times, three months to redeem and so on, it was already there some Friday before, but there we introduced expropriation, interim decisions and all other provisions that significantly - and we will certainly agree on this - helped the construction and preparation of transport infrastructure. But when I looked into history, when there was a public vote here about our common parliamentary proposal at the time, he had the greatest support from the Chamber of Commerce, as a percentage of the individual voting, the Czech Bar Association, i.e. between lawyers, but also between representatives of trade and tourism, industry and energy - 81 percent supported us at the time, as well as cities and municipalities. And that's what I want with my complaint, the criticism that what came from Europe, the ambition that was: Build trans-European networks faster, make commitments, adjust the legal order so that the time from the permit to implementation is really as short as possible - let's be honest, let's drink pure wine, you just resigned, you said, "No, we'd rather not, we'd rather let it be, the optional provisions that we don't have to do, we'd rather not put into law and let it be." And here I am to you, colleagues from the government coalition, and to the Minister. In my opinion, you were just supposed to have a much bigger ambition. First of all. Secondly, and it actually has something to do with itself, you also say it transparently in the explanatory report, and I quote: "The inherent complication in the formulation of the specific provisions transposing the directive into the Czech order is the fact that the new building law and the related changes to other laws are the subject of an ongoing amendment, and the general rules that must also follow the recodification of the building law that is still under way at this time." And here I am going back to that unfortunate building bill. He was admitted in 2021 in the summer, almost two years ago. We had a chance to work with him, edit him, but here it must sound out of my mouth: you decided to dismantle him, dismantle him for ideal reasons, what was supposed to apply from 1 July 2023, now actually in a month, i.e. the then Special Appeals Building Office, you called it otherwise - the Transport and Energy Building Office, half a year later, until 1 January next year, and we all know that it is not yet staffed, that it is not ready, there are no regulations, there are no implementing regulations and so on. In other words, even here from my mouth it must be said that government proclamations about accelerating construction, about ambitions to build on, to accelerate, are nice, but they are merely phrases, empty formulation, and reality here can be seen. If we have a chance to take advantage of a lot of what comes from the European Union, we'd rather stay with the minimalist version, we just don't have that ambition. That's one block of my comments. And the second is general. We may not change that, and I, as a Member, certainly have no ambition or capacity to change or redo this, it may be the subject of some other amendment, but the second block, Minister, concerns high-speed lines, rail management and high-speed line building, which we know, by the way, is all just included in the TEN-T network, in trans-European corridors. And I don't want to be critical here, I'm just saying, I'm dry to the fact that from my colleagues in the railroad administration - and it's the information I have from that board - there are at least four basic requests being formulated, whatever we call them, so that the construction or construction of high-speed corridors could really start in 2025, as we planned, and as you promised. We presented them at a railway conference in Pardubice a year ago, already in the spring of 2022. I'll remind them quickly. The first proposal states: let us in some way stabilise funding for preparation and implementation, for example by guaranteeing the annual amount and so on - inspiration from Great Britain. This is very complicated, it has to do with the budget, but the other three are not so complicated: placing high-speed lines, those corridors, like line constructions in the territory, easier placement, i.e. strengthening the acceleration of updates to the ZÚRek, regional principles of territorial development. Another suggestion: simplifying the EIA procedures right here in these buildings, because they are ecological, they are public benefit, it is an ecological mode of transport. Finally, perhaps the most important thing, now that we see problems in the field: finding some incentive transparent compensation for municipalities, some system of measures, funding, such as inspiration by atomic law, for example, illustratively. So let me remind you that these four basic thesises have already been formulated a year ago, and I was hoping that maybe now they will appear in the amendment to the Line Act as some other head, like some other part of it. They're not there yet. So I'm asking, and I'm asking the Minister to comment on this, too, if that's what you're working with at the Ministry. I had in the autumn as an opposition MP information that it was already ready or that the Ministry was finishing it, the documentation or preparation, helping the Railway Administration with high-speed lines that it should be done in winter. It's May. It's not in the novel right now. And here, let me not just be critical, let me be constructive, look at the chairman of the Economic Committee, offer a hand in hand. If we now have proper deadlines and we find agreement, we can easily agree on a parliamentary joint amendment, where we would, for example, put the individual provisions for high-speed lines into this amendment. I think we could agree on this in the same way that we did in 2018 at the big amendment to the Line Act. Well, thank you for the reaction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-001-019.u7	Thank you, the Minister is now reporting, and then Mr Ivan Adamec will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-001-019.u8	I have listened carefully to the rhetorical exercise, only it limps on all four legs, and I will mention in what way specifically: above all, in the fact that the fundamental interest of the Czech Republic - we are already taught by many other cases - is indeed to convert European standards into the Czech rule of law as sober and minimalistic as possible and not to allow ourselves to open what comes from the European Union, often in a way that catches us in our own traps. That is why a minimalist approach to what the European Council directives and regulations have brought. The second step: thank you, through Madam President, for repeating my assignment in relation to what needs to be done, and my assignment was: yes, we need to place high-speed lines easier in relation to high-speed lines. Unfortunately, no substantial work has been done on this in the previous period, and even the current four hundred and sixty-six does not include it. In addition, we have a new building law, which brings a whole range of new tools, and it is crucial to align the 400 with what the new building law brings. Another important thing that we need to bring into this is the expropriation regime, which will correspond to the new law, because by combining the phase of the territorial decision and the building permit, we are deprived of the possibility of resolving expropriation in the meantime and we need to determine the appropriate moment within the entire construction preparation process, when it will be possible to undertake the necessary measures, including where there is no possible agreement towards expropriation. It is my factual answer to what needs to be done and, of course, that the Ministry of Transport is intensively committed to this so that we can also, in cooperation with the MMR, bring solutions for the location of high-speed lines, as unfortunately, this has not been managed, solved, expropriated and resolved - and here again I refer to the new construction law, which brings the institute of planning contracts, and undoubtedly the planning contract can be exactly what you are calling for and we are calling for to have a firmly anchored institute here, which will allow us to find a more reasonable consensus and solution for the passage of buildings in a built-up area near cities and municipalities. This is a key tool and we want to reconcile it. The fact that in the event of a transposition, we are not košatí, is clearly a positive thing. [[9.30 hours]] The fact that we are really looking for solutions to our current problems as part of the next steps - we are looking for that, and we will introduce them in the whole legislative process and bring it in such a way that it is really within the framework of the construction of Czech transport structures - but not only transport, but also energy and generally line construction, so that it is for the benefit - will undoubtedly happen. Once again, I appreciate the rhetorical exercise. If it hadn't limped on all fours, it would have been much better for the next time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-001-019.u9	Thank you. Unsurprisingly, this response raised a factual point. [[Members of Adamec and Collo-Reversibility report.]] If the gentlemen prefer - please, Mr. Adamec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-001-019.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your priority from my colleague. I have to say, I took the first sentence from the show, or the first part that you're going to support, which I think is perfectly correct. But I must say that I am also not in favour of some twirling of what is coming from Europe, and by far not everything they invent in this Commission is beneficial and good for the Czech Republic. That's what needs to be said here, too. As for the four hundred and sixty-six, just when we're talking about a minimalist version, even the four hundred and sixty-six were originally created as a minimalist version. Let's pour some pure wine that it was an MP's proposal. It was processed by the Ministry of Transport, because it is not quite easy again, and in terms of speeding up and for other reasons we simply took it as a parliamentary initiative. It is true, we agreed on this at the time, we said that transport is simply of interest to all of us and that it is not exactly a topic on which we should in some way implement only our opposition or coalition plans here, which I therefore consider to be a very good achievement. But it has to be said that it was a minimalist version and I did not deeply like some of the things that were there mainly in the annex. However, it turned out that it actually passed the test in practice because we were afraid of a possible rejection by the Constitutional Court, of course, but it turned out that it was okay. Now all the roads were actually getting there and all the railroads from TEN-T, which means, that's good, too. I must say that if this bill is approved, it will certainly be better. But I also have one point when we're talking about the EIA. The EIA is a big problem with these buildings, we all know that. I have to say that we have also come across this in energy buildings, because when we looked at how quickly energy equipment was built in some surrounding states, it is evident that the EIA had to take a completely different form, that it was not possible to build it and prepare it in such a short time. Here, I think we should still look at the critical moments to adjust the EIA in order to be able to react flexibly to what is happening in the world and in Europe. I agree that this is where we need to take that step. Otherwise, I consider the bill right. I thank the Ministry and the Minister for presenting him to us today, and I only welcome that he is in the so-called minimalist version of the European directive. Thank you for your attention and I believe that we will find common solutions. With regard to any amendments to the Economic Committee, I would like to say that the subject is so difficult to say in terms of different perspectives that I would recommend a consensus with the Ministry, and if the Ministry is interested in getting some issues into this version of the 400th, then I am simply willing to be a carrier of these amendments. Otherwise, I think we're playing with fire. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-001-019.u11	Thank you. Now there are two factual points where Mr Martin Kolovratník is the first to report and then Mr Václav Král will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-001-019.u12	Thank you very much. I've got two legs, not four, but I'll take it. But thank you for the speech both to the Minister and to President Adamc, and I'll take it. I can see that now both sides here have, in a sort of symbolic way, reached out to each other that we're definitely taking the rhetoric of ambition so that I don't shoot at the Ministry of Transport here cheaply and free of charge. In fact, I say that it is not in the capacity of one opposition Member to study the scope of what has come from the European Commission. In general, I am simply convinced that we could have used this, say, for our benefit. But fair and square, I wasn't in the details, I'm just gonna say it. So even if I'm wrong, I'd be happy to acknowledge the mistake, and I'd be happy to say it publicly. This is fair, and I don't want to go with cheap criticism here, so I'm closing this point with a thick line. But what I see as important - I'll say it here publicly: let's talk about high-speed lines. The minister assured you were working on it, I don't doubt it, I understand that, but he hasn't been very specific yet. I want to make a promise or a suggestion here, let's try to think about it. I already have some basic concept for at least the first changes for high-speed lines. I repeat, we're talking about TEN-t corridors, we're actually talking about directions that are also in the annex to Act 416. So far, at the stage of some draft, I am working in that Act with § 5d, e) and f), which currently define a new so-called sub-regional development plan, which could be adopted on the basis of a proposal from the Minister of Transport, which will bring to the government. In the same way, I work or have developed § 21, where we want to say improve the possibility of obtaining rights in the land, a contract for obtaining rights. So I will try to suggest that, until the first round, we will be on the Economic Committee, that, at some stage that I am able to prepare with my team, that I will present these proposals with ambition or the knowledge that it will not be accepted immediately by the Committee, but that it may be a kick-off for the Ministry and that then we will get into the so-called second round, the individual amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-001-019.u13	Thank you, too. One more point in fact, with which Mr Václav Král came forward, then the Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-001-019.u14	Thank you for the floor. Hello, ladies and gentlemen, I'm just here for the novel. I'm sure it's right, I'm going to support it, but I think it's probably a wasted opportunity for, if it's already called Line Law, to really define specific lines in that law for concrete constructions, as it happens in Germany and other states, for example. I think that if we could find the courage in ourselves and confirm the priorities of the construction of individual concrete buildings and their routes on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, it would show even more to speed up construction than the upcoming amendment. So thank you for preparing this legislative act for me, but it is a pity that we did not really have the ambition to show the priorities that the Czech Republic has when building transport infrastructure. So I'm hoping that maybe the Department of Transport will still work on it, and we'll be able to really speed up construction here and avoid possible land speculation and all that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-001-019.u15	Thank you for keeping time. Minister Martin Kupka will now appear with his application, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-001-019.u16	So I would like to clarify and specify the reasons that led us to remain really with the very modest form of transposition of the European directive, because we have carefully assessed what the other optional provisions could bring. It had no potential to speed up the construction of line construction, on the contrary, it would lead to a greater burden on the authorities and to a greater burden on the builders, which is why the transposition is formulated and designed really as minimalist and is correct. As for the other, really important things that we need to do to make key transport structures more efficient in the Czech Republic: the changes that we want to bring - and we are talking about high-speed lines in this case - is the modification of the form of what the new building law brings. This is precisely the territorial development plan so that the partial adjustment, partial anchoring could be ensured as a truly superior form of spatial planning and it could be passed through high-speed lines across the Czech Republic, under conditions which would be as easy as possible for the landscape and nature, but in order to be able to really build a high-speed network at all. Thus, we are embarking on a debate with the Ministry of Regional Development with an adaptation that would allow more effectively to issue a territorial development plan for transport constructions as a specific layer of the territorial development plan. With regard to the next steps that we will take in the framework of the 416 adjustment - I am not in any way opposed to the substantive cooperation over the preparation. But I expect, on the other hand, that there will be unnecessary rhetorical exercises and we will really talk about how to do this so that the construction of key transport structures will be as quick as possible. [[9.40 hours]] This adjustment will undoubtedly also mean determining the appropriate moment to begin the property settlement for the preparation of constructions, including the decision to expropriate the fact that we will proceed again according to the current or soon valid construction law by means of a special Transport and Energy Office, which must also adopt an effective process of expropriation. So much a substantive brief response. As regards the preparation of amendments, we are certainly open to finding a good agreement and a good, effective solution to speed up constructions, as in previous cases.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-001-019.u17	Thank you very much and with fact the rapporteur is reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-001-019.u18	Thank you for the floor. Very briefly. I just wanted to say from the rapporteur's point of view that optional measures are not in principle there, but the Minister has already explained this. And I would like to say that we are here many times talking about making the transpositions minimalist, so that we really put in what is at European level the consensus, but other measures to make our own decisions, and that is really what is happening here. From the point of view of the discussion on speeding up the construction of high-speed lines, Mr Kolovratník said, through the President, that what we had planned for them to promise - he forgot to say there yet, but it also failed to plan everything because the building permits are not yet ready. However, Martin, we, both of you and Martin, when I say this, all of us want high-speed lines to happen, we have built them, and I look forward to a substantive debate on the Economic Committee so that we can speed up the construction here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-001-019.u19	Thank you. I will ask you to address me through the Chairs. And now, Mr Vojtěch Munzar. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-001-019.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Hello, fellow Members and fellow Members, dear government, Minister, I have applied, perhaps I could fit in with a factual point, but, to be sure, I have entered into a normal debate. I would like to follow up on my colleague Kolovratník, through you, and perhaps repeat some things because they have already been refuted, but I am also glad that we agreed between us, across the coalition, then also the opposition, on the wording of Act 416. However, we all have to realise and we all know here in this room that the law itself, or even the European directive itself, will not ensure the construction itself, will not secure investment. They are merely assumptions, and that is why this law is also called, the prerequisites for speeding up construction. I am glad that the Minister here, otherwise I would have done it myself, explained why the minimalist version of the European Union. It is not all the regulations that come from Europe that are suitable for the territory of the Czech Republic, and having an ambition to accept everything can ultimately mean that we will complicate our life and instead of speeding up construction in this case, we could complicate the construction so that it gets stuck, the approval and preparation of buildings on an official basis. Like I said, the law is a prerequisite. I am pleased and expect that this change will also provide a prerequisite for the possibility of financing the trans-European network of all these buildings, the possibility of financing from European sources. That's crucial, because without money, we can draw any maps, we can draw any plans, but without money, without funding, we can't get to the construction sites, so I'm glad this opportunity will be, and let's make the most of it. That is why I support this bill. We all know that the transport network and the transport infrastructure are such a vascular system of the economy that packs up economic development, collects opportunities, collects economic development activities - thank you to Mr Kolovratník, by your means, that it points to watches, but I am not with a factual point - so it brings economic development to our country, and that is what we should be interested in, and therefore I am very supportive of this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-001-019.u21	Thank you very much and I will look around the hall to see if anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate? If this is not the case, I am ending the general debate. I ask if there is an interest in the final words of the Minister or the rapporteur? It's not like that, thank you. And before we proceed to the vote, I will apologise to Mr Patrik Nacher for the whole day for family reasons and Mr Jan Richter for medical reasons within 10.45 hours. So we will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion and first decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. I will now engage and call the Members of Parliament and the Lords of the foyer. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. I'm asking, does anyone propose a commandment to another committee as a guarantee? If this is not the case, shall we proceed to the vote and I ask who agrees that the proposal submitted be ordered to discuss the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee? I've started the vote, and whoever's in favour may press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting number 127, 169 votes cast, for 141, versus 0. I note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. I wonder if anyone has a motion on the commandment of the next committee to discuss? I see no one, or I say, that we have discussed all the proposals for a vote, and I conclude the first reading of this point. And now I see President Josef Cogan, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-001-019.u22	Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose a point of order before point 21. I realise that the first half hour has actually taken place when this point may be proposed, so I would like to justify this procedure by order 1231 of the Chamber of Deputies of 24 May 2016, when, in particularly justified cases, the Chamber of Deputies may decide otherwise to amend the approved agenda of the House's meeting, that is out of the 30 minutes. In this case, we are more trying to meet the opposition proposal, when we were essentially asked here to answer the questions that fell yesterday, with the fact that there was no time. Although the Minister has a very tight schedule, he will be traveling abroad in the afternoon as well. We tried to dig up the program so that we could comply with this proposal after all. At the same time, I asked all club presidents whether they would agree to this procedure and whether they would allow it. I have been given a positive opinion on this from the protocol, but it is still necessary to vote on this proposal at this point. That is why I would like to present this proposal to the House in this way with the view that this would be the start of the investment incentive point that we would discuss right now and then continue the agenda, that is to say, paragraphs 21, 23 et seq. So I'm going to ask you once again to reschedule point 18 before point 21.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-001-019.u23	Thank you. I've registered the proposal. That's what the Minister wants to do with priority rights, isn't it? That's right, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-001-019.u24	Hello. I don't want to make the opposition laugh right now, but I have a point 21 and a point 23 that could be very, very short, and I have to go to the Senate. This means that if we talked about point 21 and point 23 really quickly, we wouldn't have to do this, because otherwise it gets messy - I wasn't ready for this option.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-001-019.u25	I have a procedural proposal to deal with. We have a special resolution here. [[Big noise in the hall.]] I'm gonna ask for some peace. So recapitulation: we have a special resolution 1231, according to which this procedure is possible. We have President Cogan's proposal, which is voteable and voiced. I'm gonna ask you one more time if... It's not like anything's changed. I've called in a colleague and colleagues from the lobby and I'm going to review what we're going to vote on. President Cogan has proposed - and I will ask for peace, so that everyone knows what will be voted on. [[The noise in the room doesn't stop.]] - President Cogan has proposed that we now place paragraph 18 before paragraph 21, which is a government bill on investment incentives. I am opening the vote on this proposal. [[President Benda points out that extraordinary circumstances must be put to the vote first.]] Excuse me? I declare the vote (number 128) confusing. This vote has been declared misguided. And once again, just to be clear, we are going to vote on whether this case is justified, or whether that is an option. I hear a request for everyone to check out. Please sign up with your cards again. Please, Minister, you may step forward with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-001-019.u26	Thank you. We're an action government, which means a colleague will take the points for me, which means I can do it on the basis of Mr. Cogan's proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-31-ps2021-065-05-001-019.u27	Then I am very glad that this agreement has taken place. I shall recapitulate once again: first, the vote on whether the case is justified can be agreed on a proposal to amend the approved agenda otherwise, and then a priority, if it passes, a vote on the priority of paragraph 18 before paragraph 21. Everyone knows what we're voting on. Initiating vote, who is in favour of this case? Let him push the button and raise his hand? Who's against it? Voting number 129, 154 votes cast, for 82, against 5. So this has been accepted. We can now proceed to a specific proposal for the pre-routine of paragraph 18, investment incentives, before point 21. Initiating vote. Who's in? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 130, 155 votes in favour of 79, versus 5. I am of the opinion that this proposal has been accepted. So this is going to change the order of the approved program and we're going to continue with point number
