ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-005-016.u1	16. Government bill amending certain laws in the field of crisis states and state material reserves /German press 403/ - first reading Under the authority of the Government, the proposal will be made by the Minister of Industry and Trade, Jozef Síkela, and I beg you, Minister, to take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-005-016.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, on the basis of the Government resolution of 6 April 2022. 290 on the proposal to amend legislation in response to armed conflict in Ukraine, the Ministry of Industry and Trade, in cooperation with the Administration of State Material Reserves, was ordered to submit a draft law enabling the use of state material reserves more effectively in the event of crisis situations and to plan their acquisition more predictablely. These requirements have been reflected in the draft law amending certain laws in the field of crisis situations and state material reserves, which is being translated to you today for discussion at first reading. The draft law includes an amendment to the Act on the Application of State Material Reserves, the Amendment to the Crisis Act and the amendment to the Act on Economic Measures for Crisis Situations. The aim of the amendments proposed in these laws is to improve the existing system of planning and preparation for crisis situations, by means of clearly defined rules for the approval and updating of the plan for the creation and maintenance of state material reserves to ensure the security of the Czech Republic, to allow the reservation system for certain items of state tangible reserves or to use the possibility to acquire items of the plan for the creation and maintenance of state tangible reserves to ensure the security of the Czech Republic, with the exception referred to in Section 29 letters. (a) Law No 134/2016 Coll., on Public Procurement. The main objectives of the proposed regulation are therefore, in particular, better preparation for crises, better flexibility for the use of economic measures in crisis management, better resource provision for economic measures, the introduction of a reservation system of state material reserves, that is to say, to enable state material reserves to become also things or animals that the Administration reserves for payment to the owner of the item or animal. The proposed bill was duly discussed in the inter-ministerial commentary proceedings and working committees of the Legislative Council of the Government. It was submitted to the Government of the Czech Republic after the settlement of all the comments made without contradiction. The Government of the Czech Republic discussed this proposal on 1 March 2023 and adopted Resolution No. 146, which approved this bill. I would like to ask you to support this law both at today's meeting and subsequently in further discussion by the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-005-016.u3	I thank you, Minister, and I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, Mr Tomáš Müller. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-005-016.u4	Mr President, honourable Members, I will just briefly add to what the Minister said. The reason for the proposal is to make the operation of the State Administration of Material Reserves more effective, thanks to the recent experience gained from the pandemic of the Covid-19 and the war in Ukraine. These crisis situations have shown the need to make the operation of the State Administration of Material Reserves more flexible and practical. The main aim of the proposed regulation is to create a system that is able to prepare the Czech Republic flexibly and comprehensively for potential future crisis situations based on past experience. The proposed adjustment responds to this and creates a system of regularly updated plans, supplemented by explicit authorisation to order the use of the economic measures taken for the government, including explicit financial resources, and expenditure relating to their collateralisation. Another objective of the proposed amendment is to create conditions for a completely new way of purchasing state material reserves, in the form of their reservation with the owner of these items or animals. The current legislation envisages that the state's material reserves are property or animals owned by the State. From an economic point of view, it is preferable for certain commodities not to transfer these goods or animals into the State's ownership, but to include them in the State's material reserve system, with the fact that they will not remain owned by a private person who will take care of them on the basis of a contractual condition with the Administration. These state material reserves will be seen as the property of the Czech Republic with jurisdiction for the Administration. [[17.10 hours]] In view of the above, it is clear that the proposed legislation is a necessary solution to identified deficiencies in crisis planning, while other non-normal routes cannot be used. The solution proposed to address these deficiencies must be implemented solely by legislative means guaranteeing the creation of the conditions necessary to ensure effective resolution of crisis situations in the future. I propose that the bill be ordered to the Economic Committee as a guarantee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-005-016.u5	Thank you and I am opening a general debate. Mr Kubíček is registered. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-005-016.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief. This is a government proposal for a novel that responds to experience mainly from pandemic covid-19. The legislation contained in the Act on the scope of the Administration of State Material Reserves no longer corresponds to the current need to set up the most effective management procedures for the management of state tangible reserves and does not correspond to new trends in the acquisition and management of such reserves as well. The aim of the proposal is to address these shortcomings and to supplement the existing law on administrative competence in this respect. In particular, the draft law creates the possibility of securing state tangible reserves in the form of their contractual reservation, in which the property right will be transferred to the reserved item or animal to the State until the need arises to use these state tangible reserves, but for the period of their acquisition under the contract they are viewed as the property of the Czech Republic with jurisdiction to manage the Administration. Overall, we can identify with the content of the bill, where the necessary changes in effective procedures in the management of state material reserves are reflected. However, I would like to draw attention to the Government's possibility that it will also be able, in specific cases, to order the use of the economic measures taken to put the state at risk and in an emergency situation, which means a significant extension of its powers, and this will need to be discussed at the expert level of the committees and at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-05-30-ps2021-065-04-005-016.u7	I thank you, too, Mr Ambassador, and I ask, is there anyone else reporting for the general debate? I don't see an application. If so, I am ending the general debate. I ask the Minister and the rapporteur if you want the final word? It's not like that. Thank you. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. By her decision, the President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed to order the motion submitted for discussion to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I see no proposal, so we will proceed to the vote. I am opening the vote and I ask who is in favour of the proposal being ordered to discuss the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 120, 147 Members and Members registered, in favour of proposal 108, against none. I note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee. The President of the Chamber of Deputies has not proposed to order this motion to the next committee, and I ask if anyone else has any suggestions on the commandment of another committee? I do not see such a proposal, in which case I thank you and end the discussion of this point. I'm opening another point in today's meeting, and that's
