ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-005-903.u1	The joint debate on points 130, 131 and 132 of the House prints 328, 329 and 330/ I would ask you, if you are going to speak, to specify and refer to the House press you are speaking to so that it is clear which of the three press you are talking to. Thank you. I now have a joint debate in general with the priority right of Minister Baxa, then Vice-President Dostálová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-005-903.u2	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I am now acting with priority rights, but I would just like to report that I have duly entered into the general and detailed debate as Member Martin Baxa. My proposals concern the construction law, I do not want to be a minister here, so I am listed in a general and detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-005-903.u3	Thank you for your clarification. Now, with priority rights, Vice-President Klára Dostálová will speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-005-903.u4	Thank you for the floor. Madam President. I'm really going forward and I'm going to be a little bit longer. I am saying this quite frankly, because, of course, we have a construction law on our table today - you all know that I have been doing this for many years. But I must begin by saying that I am really glad that we have reached an agreement, and I very much appreciate it, and I think it is a hugely good signal for all our builders, because, by having a political agreement on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, that in the finals, this building law might not be in jeopardy for every new term, that it could just stay with us for a while. It has also been said very rightly in the Economic Committee that, of course, we have to assume a little bit of the birth pain, that it is possible that we will be doing something else, but the substance of the matter will probably be preserved. I will be longer, because I will basically try to take it again in a nutshell to do an excursion for you here, too, into what the new construction law actually brings, or the amendment to the new construction law brings, because there are a lot of people who have been enrolled in our seminar, but as a result of the extraordinary meetings that we had here, unfortunately it was not possible to organize it in such a large number on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, so the seminar was cancelled at the last minute. However, of course, all potential participants, after some sort of summary of what the new construction law brings, would certainly like to see. It also needs to be said that the construction law, in its complexity, can quite legitimately be compared to, for example, the Civil Code. It is simply a huge set of all possible activities and institutions that enter the building law. It wasn't easy finding the balanced model. We as the opposition, when we got to the contrast with the fact that it was submitted by the Ministry of Regional Development, the amendment to the new building law, without having a chance to breathe in the new building law at all, just as a footnote - of course, once again, I stress that it was the law of the year, when it was supported by more than 68 percent by the professional public, which I consider to be a really huge number. It must be said, however, that the opposition was actually before deciding whether to take this constructively or destructively, and I must say that the opposition was quite clearly - and here I would like to thank not only all colleagues from the YES movement, but also all SPD colleagues, because we were really looking for a balanced compromise, simply the art of the possible one that we would put on the table with a comprehensive amendment. The criticism that was about the amendment to the new building law was mainly because, contrary to the original resolutions, it was very far away from the new building law, and the new building law was about the reform of building law in the Czech Republic. It must be said that we have indeed sought, in cooperation across the political spectrum in the Chamber of Deputies, what is essential must be preserved. Knowing the outcome of the elections and that the complete reform of building law is unsolvable and that we might not have achieved political consensus, we, as the opposition, have retreated from the institutional model. This means that we built it on other pillars with the fact that the institutional model is simply outlasted by the electoral result, because the idea of the current coalition was not too much to interfere with the structure of the construction offices. This means that the agreement is that the construction offices will remain in the municipalities as they are today, that is, the ones, the twos, the municipalities with extended scope, the regions present. [[16.10 hours]] But we've been looking for it, and I really appreciate the political assignment we've made, and here we really thank you, whether it's Minister Kupek, but of course also Minister Bartoš, that we really agree that we have to play the whole amendment in a political version: where it can be integrated, so it has to be. This was accompanied by the whole system of preparation, and I have to say, we've come across many times, but we've found the solution. This means that, even in the context of institutional changes - even as I have already said, those communities will remain at the top and the bottom - we have agreed that we will integrate the institutions concerned. This is the painful place of today's building law, where the builder must individually obtain forty separate stamps, so-called binding opinions, and these stamps are independently reviewed, so you can imagine what it does in that volume for delays, for example, allowing an apartment building in Prague - five years and more, so we tried to respond to that. We have come to the conclusion that, in essence, by noting that it will not be a public building administration, but that it will actually remain in the delegated remit, it has basically proved that most of the so-called public interests, or the authorities concerned, are already part of the community with extended scope, which means that it is actually under the same roof, on one office. But since the municipalities in the 1st and 2nd municipalities were preserved again, that is to say in the small municipalities, it was necessary to invent a mechanism for the equal position of the builder. For this reason, it was actually created that instead of forty-five and more separate stamps, one binding coordinated position would be. In addition, we have had a so-called unified environmental position here, but given the political commitment that where it can be integrated, so must be done, and the environmental unions are already part of the enlarged community today, the single environmental position will also be part of that single, binding coordinated opinion. This means that the builder actually gets one stamp for the protection of public interests, whether it is a small village, a small construction office, or a quiet construction office in a village with extended scope or at the level of the region, always the building office will have one entry in the form of a single coordinated binding position. This means in translation that, of course, there must be all those reviews and appeals processes and so on, but the review will be possible not forty-five or more stamps, but for one, to one stamp, so we will really reduce the deadlines for issuing building permits. In all of this - but I get to it - it's completely alpha omega of this system to make it work, of course, digitalization. But I'm going to go back to that a little bit later on in my performance, because there is, of course, a need to say that all the authorities involved must be secured not only by hardware, but also by software, if possible from one place that will lend it to him - probably the Ministry of Regional Development - or how they will arrange it, because the idea that we would now run seven hundred separate competitions is simply nonsense, so of course it must be done centrally. It needs to be realised that the construction law, the new building law - and I will be talking here about the new building law, because the amendment, thanks to cooperation in the House, has come much closer to the original intentions of the new building law, except for the institutional change, even at that level of institutions. And I took the liberty because it was prepared by the MMR, but the Minister doesn't brag about it - but I'm going to brag about it because it went well with the Ministry, this graph, where it's beautifully shown how this integration is going to take place. [[It's showing a graph.]] I'm going to try to explain to you on this graph that the authorities in question will essentially be in municipalities with extended scope. There will also be small construction offices down here that will ask municipalities with extended scope for a uniform, binding, coordinated position. The appeal body and the appeal principle against these authorities will be the current regional authority. The regional authority also has certain types of construction in the new construction law, which it will allow in the first instance proceedings. This means that the regional authority will also ask its regional authority for a uniform binding position, because the authorities concerned are also integrated there. But at the level of the region, it has two planes. Either there is a project that is large and requires the EIA, so it goes through a separate process, because it is really bound by European regulations, or it does not require the EIA, but, of course, a single environmental position will also be part of a single binding coordinated opinion. At the same time - and the Minister has already mentioned this - we had the so-called Special and Appellate Building Office in the new construction law. In today's concept, it's called the Transport and Energy Building Office. It's an office for reserved buildings, but even here, we were looking for who, in fact, for the DESU, the Transport and Energy Building Office, will issue a uniform, binding, coordinated position. Here it will be the regional office that will issue it against the DESÚ, but then, of course, when you take it from the perspective of appeal, it is clear that the oerpéčko refers to the regional office, the regional office to the DESÚ or MMR according to what kind of construction it is. But there must already be individual departments above the DESÚ, so that, of course, appeals and review can be done. Who would like to get closer to it, because of course it's a little bit of a change against what we had, so of course I recommend this graph and again I say: I think that MMR has worked very clearly and it really makes it clear how these things will apply together. Yes, please. [[Member Rabbit takes a graph from the speaker's desk.]] The rapporteur took it right away. What I consider it important to say is that the model that I have been trying to introduce here now needs to be fair again and to say frankly that this model will certainly bring acceleration in the form of integration of the institutions concerned. But on the other hand, what was in the original new construction law just doesn't solve it, and it just has to be fair here. We have come to some compromise, surely we will support this amendment as it is prepared by the general amendment, but it is fair to say that we have resigned by this model to respect the deadlines. The time limits are designed in the construction law, but there is no way to enforce them. Given that there is no uniform structure, the enforcement of deadlines is very complex. I assume here, of course, that the Ministry, all the departments involved, will appeal to municipal secretaries to actually ensure that these deadlines are respected, because they have certain personnel tools to do this, how to work with officials, of course. We just can't take it by force. There are no sanctions in the construction law against non-compliance with deadlines. The second is a plane which we must acknowledge and which, of course, has not been removed by this amendment, is the representativeness of officials. We, by admitting the model, that small construction offices will remain in the municipalities of 1st, 2nd, 3rd, so of course, even though we have certain criteria in the amendment to the construction law that they have to do so many processes or that they obviously have to have high-speed Internet access available, I mean at least three employees, but of course, when something happens and the employees, one lady goes to motherhood, two gets sick, nobody can represent them at the small construction office. This is simply not possible in the delegated model, so unfortunately it may continue to happen to the builder that the sign for the disease will be closed at the construction office, and he will have to wait, because no other construction office will be able to handle it for him. And the third such area, which will be so half-hearted - I do not want to say that it will not be at all, but it will be half-cocked - is a uniform methodological environment, because here again it is necessary to realise that a certain hierarchy is given in the delegated order by the administrative order, that is, methodological guidelines are given by the Ministry towards the regions and regions towards the municipalities. Of course, we responded to this in a unified state government because we wanted it to apply at one point for everyone, but in this way we can't actually fully influence whether the regions somehow modify it towards the construction authorities in the municipalities. But it also needs to be truthfully admitted that the digitization will be very helpful, because by seeing what methodological guidelines were issued at what moment, it will also be clear who has resorted from where. In a digital environment, there will be examples of good practice, and officials will be able to motivate and follow it. So I also consider it partially resolved, but not entirely. [[16.20 hours]] And the last point that isn't solved, and that's kind of the cosmos clash where we're wondering how much it's going to impact or not, and that's what's called the phenomenon of systemic bias. This is simply not something that can be solved by this model, so systemic bias here will threaten a lot, but it is true and fair to say that it will be particularly relevant to large cities, because most often they are under the influence of systemic bias. I still think a little bit that for those planning contracts, which is certainly a very good achievement, which we have in the new construction law, the question is that if there is just one of the amendments that I am going to sign up to in a moment - so that the planning contracts can also be done in urban areas. This means, because it is of course very important for an agreement to be agreed in a particular territory and not in a huge whole, such as Prague or Brno, so also the urban part. On the other hand, I think that this is just really very much tied up with where it's allowed, how it's allowed, what's being done there, and that it can be to certain possibilities, to other systemic biases, and that those urban parts might have a bit of a problem with that. There is the question of whether we need not think about the future - but this is more of a balloon on the Minister's playground - to look at the fact that if urban areas were allowed there, perhaps permit agreements could not really be approved by the state administration in the form of the Transport and Energy Building Office, so that large cities would simply break out of potential systemic bias. But that's more like the future, which I'm sure would still have to be discussed in order to be officials, and so on. Speaking of thanking you here - and I'm not really going to do it controversially today, we're just wondering how these things are - certainly include a big thank you to the future Minister Hladík, who also faced this. He understood the political task: where it can integrate, so it must, and there has actually occurred that he was prepared to have a debate that a single environmental position is therefore integrated into a single binding coordinated opinion. I'll just explain again what the problem was. There is a need to realise that a single, binding, coordinated opinion integrates many interests concerned, and it really was not possible for us to suddenly admit that one public interest is more than another public interest. This cannot be done because it is not possible to say whether there are more monuments or more environments, or there is more hygiene or firemen even and so on. Therefore, I think that everyone must be on the level, and it is really very good that they managed to get into the amendment to the construction law by § 18, that the construction office will play such a coordinating role, because there are really very qualified people sitting at the construction office who, when they get project documentation on the table, and there will be one, there will be no twelve, there will just be one in digital form, so he will see the first good one, if hygiene meets firefighters on this project, or vice versa hygiene with conservationists, and he can initiate negotiations with the builder and invite the authorities concerned to go through the documentation before giving an opinion. Why is it so important? We're here all the time when we were with the government, here we faced the fact that construction proceedings and construction agencies in small towns must not be abolished because it is a service for citizens. So let's project the service to citizens into the construction law and say, yes, the service is to the builder, even in that he didn't spend thousands more on the project documentation, he'll know that either he's gonna modify it somehow, and then it's okay from the point of view of public interest, or that the way he painted it, it just doesn't work. He will see it right from the start and can, of course, continue to work with the project documentation. So I consider this very important from the perspective of institutional change and the integration of binding opinions. And those review and appeal bodies, that's always in the hierarchy - I don't have the graph anymore - but for municipalities with extended scope it's a region, for the region it's a DESÚ, for the DESÚ of course it's individual resorts. If you don't mind, the second big issue I think needs to be mentioned here is spatial planning. What does the new construction law actually bring? The new construction law on the area planning section certainly brings more competence at the municipal level. This means that the powers in the area of spatial planning remain unchanged, i.e. self-government, or council, will decide and decide on key issues, procurement, to secure the process of obtaining documentation - continues to be delegated. Other options have been discussed, but here I would like to mention - I will come back to this - that there is also an agreement with cities, especially with those big players on the area planning section, that we will continue this debate, because, of course - and I think completely legitimate - the interest of cities to ensure that spatial planning is in a purely separate scope. But because there are big ones - but I can still get to it - there is certainly a need to continue talking, debates so that it is comfortable not only for large cities, but also for small municipalities, because the unfortunate moment would be if, as a result of somehow complicated and so on, the territorial planning at the level of small municipalities was stopped. I don't think anyone wants that. What I also consider to be good is that it has been agreed that the extension of the deadline for the validity of the old territorial plans will be until the end of 2028, that is, the developed territorial plans will be completed according to the existing regulations and the municipalities will be able to choose whether to complete the old-fashioned or, on the contrary, use certain improvements to the new construction law. But he shouldn't dictate it to the municipalities, they themselves know what stage of the development of the zoning plan they are at and what it would mean to them if they had to start from scratch. It also includes a so-called discussion of the territorial study, which is a condition for decision-making. It is imposed by the zoning plan and it is important that it must be submitted to the council for consideration, but not for approval. This is also a big shift that the council is discussing, because there was a big problem with the approval. Public consultation of the planning documentation can also be done in the form of a remote approach, once again facilitates the work of the municipality. This means that it is a parallel to the present, but they may - the municipalities insisted that they want to explicitly state it in the law so that they really didn't make a mistake anywhere, and so they have it. The National Geoportal of Territorial Planning will be established, so it is already contained in the existing law, but actually this National Geoportal will ensure that all publicly relevant and accessible documents at the level of municipalities will be in one place, which, of course, will be appreciated by investors who are looking for suitable locations for some purpose and now, of course, the fragmentation of territorial plans did not record to be more comfortable for foreign investors. It should also be noted that some old building closures have already expired with the validity of the new construction law, that is, in August 2021. For example, § 326 para. 1 of the new construction law became effective immediately after the law was declared, so of course these things will be tilted there. So they're up to 30. 7. 2021 old building closures, which have been declared under Law No. 50, so it was really a few years ago. Of course, nothing prevents the village from re-evaluateing the territory and doing so, on the other hand, there were building closures in the territories for 20 years and more, where nothing happened at all. The comprehensive amendment brings further improvements, and I must say here that, for example, the new building bill gave that there would also be a so-called National Territorial Development Plan, for which it must then reflect the principles of territorial development of the regions and, of course, the territorial plans of individual municipalities. This is very important because of strategic investment, because, of course, when an energy system or something is being dealt with, the state should clearly have in its plans how it would want to lead, and the experience of executives is that, of course, such a National Territorial Development Plan must be approved by the government. This is very important, because of course there will be a lot of interests and a single government can also agree on some concessions, so that the National Territorial Plan is basically legalized and passed. [[16.30 hours]] The same applies, of course, to building closures, territorial restrictions and so on. It has to be said that the Ministry of Regional Development will be responsible for this National Territorial Plan, but it will be obliged not only to put it in the inter-sector but also directly to ministers, the Prime Minister, so that the government can get acquainted with it and also to approve it. Another such as is contained in the general amendment is the built-up territory. The proposed adjustment aims to adjust the process of defining the built-up territory so that the binding basis is no longer an intravilan, which is defined on 1 September 1966, because it actually appears to be outdone at present. It will be assumed that if the municipality has a valid zoning plan and decides to buy a new zoning plan, it will be based primarily on the existing zoning plan when defining the built-up area. That means, even the fear of it, now I will take the Metropolitan Plan of Prague into my mouth - there, of course, if the dead bodies have run out, there is really a threat that they would allow the 1966 intravilán, which is, of course, nonsense. So it's very convenient that this adjustment took place if they didn't make the deadlines, so they're going back to the original zoning plan and they don't have to go until 1966. Other areas of spatial planning are changes to land planning documentation. The point is that it is heading even more clearly to determine that changes are being made in parallel to the current accelerated procedures for making changes. This is also intended to ensure that both the authorising authority and the purchaser are not overwhelmed by requests for which an immediate solution is not required. There, of course, the municipalities have very often responded that they simply are not able to respond to each request as a matter of urgency, and it is really possible to apply requests that do not require an immediate solution and to have it, in fact, a new acquisition or change of the zoning plan every four years. In fact, this will also ensure that individuals ask for change, so that the municipality can, of course, reflect on its other intentions with which it will work. It should also be mentioned that the new construction law does not restrict the role of self-government in the area of spatial planning compared to the existing construction law, so here only for recapitulation. Sometimes I come across criticism that you took away what little we have from us - there is no such thing. On the contrary, we are also trying to strengthen, or the efforts of the petitioners are also to strengthen spatial planning. This means that the decision to acquire, approve the award, select the most appropriate variant, issue the zoning plan, approve the report on application, change decision and issue a change to the land planning documentation will remain in the territory of the self-government. Compared to the existing construction law, the Authority is newly entrusted with the possibility of discussing the draft settlement of comments before submitting a decision on the merger of joint negotiations and public consultation, and the municipality's (v) independent competence is granted the right to comment on the definition of the built-up territory, the right to apply comments on the draft territorial measures. In contrast to the current state of the municipality's council, the new construction law removes the possibility of issuing the definition of the built-up territory, the approval of the municipality's application for acquisition, but these activities are still carried out by the Board in a delegated capacity. And now maybe a little field trip to what I've been implying here is a kind of ball on the side of the Minister's playground, and that's just the acquisition of a zoning plan in a separate jurisdiction. This has already been dealt with very intensively for us, and it has been agreed that the task force will be on zoning so that we can prepare a separate amendment to the construction law in this area. But there really needs to be an answer to a very clear assignment, and there must be clear answers that will be in line with all of them, because it is in the original intention that some major cities would have it in their separate competence and the rest of the delegated powers, we really came across within the Government's Legislative Council. This means that we need to ask ourselves the questions as to how the procurement would take place in small municipalities, because here it should be recalled that, by carrying it out, the State is giving money to municipalities for the acquisition of the zoning plan. If you have it in your own jurisdiction, it cannot be done, there is a clear opposition from the Ministry of the Interior. He just says, if they want it to be separate, then with everything, including funding. And that's the big problem, because small towns say, "But it suits us, we're glad that we're getting a contribution from the state, even if we're getting a contribution, but we're getting at least something, and that they're really worried that it wouldn't be in the interest of territorial planning as such. At the time, such constructs were invented as the fact that the small municipalities would take over the ORP, that is to say, a community with extended scope. You can imagine how enthusiastic it was for communities with widespread application, which said: We have completely different financial needs. Of course, the idea of financing territorial plans for small municipalities is unimaginable for us. Likewise, if we are to talk about a separate area of territorial planning, we also need to talk about adequate protection of public interests. And that's not just the generality, you have, of course, a lot of clash areas. This is a community-state, a community-general, a community-land, two neighbouring regions and the impacts of the municipality-border and so on and all these public interests must somehow be reflected. This means that if it's in a separate jurisdiction, the community can't - and now forgive me for the expression - hitting the table and say, "I don't care about the environment at all." This simply cannot work this way and must, of course, be balanced in some way. This is precisely the solution to contradictions, as it would actually look in real life, so who in the finals would solve contradictions between local authorities, if that were the case. And that's the paradox that if there's something in a separate field, then the state shouldn't be too involved, but on the other hand, of course, it's very complicated from the point of view of protecting public interests. And then review the land-planning documentation. It would be my own responsibility, but, of course, it would have to be made possible for those who do not like something to be reviewed. And who would make sure that review was institutional, or would the courts really handle all this? Which, of course, doesn't exactly appeal to the courts, because they might also be very overwhelmed by all these review activities. So much for a really very short excursion to what is probably waiting for us, because the big cities had many memoranda, closed the so-called city deal and certainly from the point of view of Prague, Brno, Ostrava, Plzeň and all the major regional cities it is a very legitimate expectation as well as here we will play a debate on separate building regulations. We, as we have so far prepared, have been identified with the fact that, according to the regional development strategy, metropolitan cities should actually have construction regulations. And those of the strategy result from three, which is Prague, Brno and Ostrava. Maybe I can imagine one more, two giant metropolises, but you all just have to realize that the fact that separate legislation is not for God's sake - now I'm sorry for the expression, but for all the regional cities, so it's absolutely unsolvable for MMR. I just can't. It's self-identified, it's a huge problem. In addition, the MMR issues a single decree for all cities and certain specifics should actually be reflected there. So I'm gonna have to talk from this place for keeping it really the three biggest ones in intensity, try it out as a pilot, and if we don't see it over time - that is, we MMR won't see it there - some extra big problems, so let's spread it over time. But if we do it like a hooray action right now, I think it's gonna be a big fiasco in the finals. [[16.40 hours]] Such a third big issue is the material building law that is reflected in the new building law. Therefore, the basic substantive requirements directly in the law are amended in the context of material building law, that is to say, it is not in any annexes or in the decree, but it directly regulates the law, in such details, that is, of course, to the law adequately, and they are then divorced in the implementing legislation. For example, I will give you one example: in the present or old building law, for example, there was no lighting at all, but the decrees and so on, of course, specified it more, so I am glad that we agreed that there would be daylight directly in the law, because we responded again to the fact that, of course, Prague is building in the arches and so on, but we certainly do not want our citizens to live somewhere in the cellars without daylight, so there would be daylight without the word "direct" because everyone who imagines 1+kk, where you have a luxury divided kitchen and the living area, so it would actually be intolerable because there would not be direct daylight. So I think the daylight is good from the point of view of health, so that people don't really live in artificial light again, I'm sure none of us want that. The Ministry of Regional Development will be empowered to issue the implementing regulation, or decrees, precisely on the substantive construction law. Similarly, the Ministry of Regional Development will be authorised to issue a regulation which may lay down detailed requirements for construction. The law reflects only the three major cities, which is Prague, Brno and Ostrava. Another major such act is changes in the project documentation, and here I have to say that what was actually taken over in the new building law, and it is very good because we already had a real problem with the fact that the builders turned to the Ministry, and the Minister will certainly confirm that the construction law is a really big debate with the public, that it is also going to have hundreds and thousands of letters, because the builders of small family houses or some small projects were justifiably upset over the fact that we want details of the project documentation as if they were building a nuclear power plant. This is not really what the small builders are building, so I am therefore glad that there will of course be simplification of the permit, there will also be simplification of the project documentation. The number of types of project documentation is reduced to three basic types. The first is the documentation for the approval of the project, the second documentation for the implementation of the construction and the documentation for the removal of the construction. The content of the new type of documentation for the approval of the project is based on the existing modification of the documentation for the issue of the territorial decision, that is, it is, of course, much simpler, the slang is called at the level of DURka plus, that is, it must be supplemented by the construction design solution and fire safety solution. I'm sorry. [[The MP has hoarsed, he's drinking.]] žízeň, yes, I'm going to a seminar. There. This documentation, i.e. at the level for the issuance of the zoning decision plus, i.e. supplemented by a construction design and fire safety solution, will be inserted by the builder into the Electronic Documentation Record as an application for the approval of the intention. The builder also inserts documentation for the removal of the construction as part of the application for permission to remove the construction, while the documentation for the implementation of the construction is not included in this register. A fundamental change is the obligation of the builder to prepare documentation for the implementation of the construction before the start of its implementation. That means, we're again giving a certain opportunity to the builder that before he goes through a little bit of the simpler management documentation, and if he actually gets all those permits, he'll go into the documentation for the implementation of the construction, which, of course, is much more detailed. Such a fourth area, which is also very important from my point of view, is procedural law, or authorisation, appeal and review. Within the framework of building authorisation, the current number of permit processes is replaced by one control, where the construction will be allowed. There is indeed a merger of the territorial building procedure into one procedure. The law sets - and so now quotes, because I have already reached it here - inexcessible deadlines for the construction authorities, but I point it out again, and it needs to be seen in this way that there is no response to enforcement in the law, even if those deadlines are set as incontrovertible. This is simply not the way it will be, and once again it is necessary to appeal from political representation, especially from the municipalities, to municipal secretaries, so that, of course, officials lead to order. After all, the mayor will see what stage of approval it is if he's out of time because it all goes digitally. Perhaps it is also worth mentioning the difference in the length of the process according to the type of construction. This is also one of the very important points that we will actually have several types of buildings, because this was done according to the possibilities of officials. So we're going to have small buildings, simple buildings, other buildings and dedicated buildings. It is really necessary, therefore, with its intention to consult at the construction office where you belong, because such locally relevant projects will simply fall under the municipal authorities, but, for example, first-class roads, even if it is the state, will allow the regions, so these things need to be dealt with. It is a question to this day - and I, of course, worry the Minister here every moment - that housing policy is because it is a question of whether housing policy should no longer have a certain priority within these buildings and perhaps fall to the level of the region or even to the level of reserved buildings. For simple constructions, the 30-day periods with the possibility of extending to a maximum of 90 days are, of course, very good news for all. Simple buildings - these are especially family houses and all these matters, so it should be really very easy there. And I will hope here that some even improved amendments will be tabled, because, of course, there are large plots in the countryside, and children could certainly build on their parents' land and so on to get a building permit as quickly as possible. The other buildings are therefore 60 days with the possibility of extension up to 120 and buildings requiring environmental impact assessment, these are the EIA, as I have shown you here, so they have 120 days at the beginning with the possibility of extension up to 180. What is absolutely essential here is that once again, the fiction of the approval of the binding position takes place in this amendment to the new construction law. That's just great, because if you're building on a property where you're good... you've got a line from your neighbors at a reasonable distance, you're not going to go any higher, what all these standards are, theoretically, the authorities involved can use that fiction, which means they're going to look at it and they're going to say, we have nothing to add to it, we're going to go through fiction and you're essentially building it. That means, there's no need to create paperwork for paper, where, of course, the building office can handle the fiction. As part of the construction procedure, the construction authority will therefore assess the conformity of the project - and now it must assess it with the planning documentation, with the requirements of the law and its implementing decrees, with the requirements of the authorities concerned resulting from the protection of public interests, and here we will have a uniform, binding coordinated opinion with the infrastructure requirements and subsequently the construction office will decide on the permit or non-approval of the construction. Speaking of appeal, because these procedural matters concern both review and appeal, it is absolutely essential that the so-called appeal principle is maintained. The appeal principle means that the first-instance office, whether it's a community or a county, if, of course, within the time limits that it doesn't, or... it's unenforceable, but if there's an appeal, then the ping-pong is removed - what we're all used to today, that when you appeal, it goes to the higher instance, they find some formal nonsense, it comes back to the first instance, and that's how they ping between the authorities forever. The appeal principle is that it will not be possible to return the first instance, that is, the second instance, the higher one, the project has to be negotiated and allowed, which will, of course, reduce the deadlines very significantly. [[16.50 hours]] It was certainly necessary to respond within this whole package of that procedural right to judicial review and judicial review must, of course, be effective and timely, that is, with the possibility of the court to change, even in some cases, the decisions of the building authority if it considers it appropriate. What is very important in the overall amendment is so-called building surveys, because there is an extension of the provisions on the scope and content of the project documentation on compulsory surveys resulting from European legislation, such as the survey of buildings due to asbestos, which is certainly very important for all of us's health. The details of these mandatory surveys will also be laid down by a separate legislation. So the new construction law or the amendment to the new construction law, but I'm about to talk about the new construction law, because here's the agreement across the political spectrum, it sets a clear process within procedural law, fixed deadlines. This means that when the building office receives all the documents, it should decide within a period of time, and the construction office examines the intention in the proceedings once and issues permits. The fifth package I'd like to mention here is digitalization. Although digitalization is certainly not my domain, it is the domain of the minister here, but I consider it absolutely essential that it should be heard in the file of digitalization. It is very important that the digitization of the processes and outputs of the building management and planning is very important. All information systems are already enshrined and anchored in the law, and at this point European money is essentially earmarked for it, both from the National Recovery Plan and from the Integrated Regional Operational Programme, which I consider very good, because what we are going to talk about will not be cheap, but if this succeeds, it will really be a huge success, it will make everything easier, but frankly, it is not an easy task in front of the Minister. I know that, of course, it is also fighting with the Competition Authority and so on, but on the other hand, it is necessary to give a certain signal to the municipalities how it will work, because the municipalities are really starting to look after whether to start competing themselves or what to do, because of course they know that the deadline is 31 July 2023, and here I want to point out that the overall amendment postpones the effectiveness of the amendment to 1. 1. 2024. So please, let's all remain calm in the territory, it's clear that the state will have to compete for everyone through the MMR. It is more or less clear that he should begin, because of course he will swallow such a giant tender for some time. As part of the digitization, the Portal will be created by the builder through which the proceedings will be conducted and all actions between the builder, the construction authorities, the authorities concerned, the owners of the public transport or technical infrastructure will be carried out electronically. This is indeed absolutely essential, because the real builder will see at what stage of the process he is at and who, where he is already at the edge of that deadline. That means, there will be pressure on the municipalities, because of course they are able to give everyone in today's building law an incentive for inaction, so here, too, the mayor concerned or the mayor or the mayor, the mayor will have to make sure that they don't have any problems with the office's inactivity as such. Instead of a paper application with dozens of attachments - and here today you all know who you've tried to implement something under the current construction law, that it's already on the avia, as you take to the construction office twelve, thirteen, fourteen pare, each of the authorities concerned will factor something else in you, you'll take it all back and start redoing it. Well, no. Here a digitally one project application will be submitted and the project application will be looked at by all the affected, which means the construction office, the representatives of of of course the technical infrastructure, the authorities concerned, the parties involved and so on and so on, so the portal of the builder will really lead to simplification. And what we're gonna say to each other, every designer who's designing something today, he's got it digitally, no one's painting on the board anymore, so, of course, it's easy for them too. This system needs to be started, because today if you send it through a data box, it's possible, but of course the clerk or the office prints the data box and brings it to the building office physically printed - that's not what it's about. Indeed, the construction office must have such techniques, imaging techniques, so that it can listen to the project documentation from certain angles on good large monitors and be able to focus on the construction. I have already talked about the National Geoportal of Territorial Planning, so it will really be about the fact that the existing territorial planning documentation in the territory of the Czech Republic will be in one place. Perhaps I would mention digitally technical maps, which is certainly also a very good achievement. Digitally technical maps, that means, basically, those in charge of technical infrastructure - they should manage the regions - and it's definitely a big plus for the builder, that he will see what networks they're actually running on the property and what they have to do or realize in order to have a house or any other project there. When I come back to the general amendment, there are certain things that still need to be mentioned in the proposal, and that is, of course, the OZE. The amendment introduces the same amendments to the new construction law, which were adopted by the law, the so-called Lex OZE 1, into the current construction law, so this is tilted there, so what we discussed here about energy infrastructure and so on, of course, the new building law reflects. As part of the general amendment, it is, of course, necessary that the new construction law also lay down the same conditions as the current construction law, because any differences would be very unsystematic, so the general amendment responded to this. The next item is connections. The comprehensive amendment introduces an adjustment to the new construction law, which has already been adopted by this OZE 1, and proposes a uniform principle for all connections up to 25 metres due to a uniform view of the matter. The amendment is necessary in order to avoid any unsystematic interference, where one would bring about an energy law and one would bring about a building law. I believe that other partial possible amendments will also deal with energy in a certain area. But I think that's for the benefit of the matter, that's what I was trying to say at the beginning, that there's definitely gonna be a lot of partial amendments that lead to this jewelry of what we have, because you can read it over and over again and you can still think of new things and incentives that, now that we have the building bill open, would be better to deal with now. Forest kindergartens have been talking about this for a long time, so I believe that this will benefit, of course, and it is also part of a new construction law or a comprehensive amendment. So when I come to the conclusion and I really want to say in brief the basic point of the new construction law, it is certainly a procedural reform, that is to say the abolition of all the existing ten types of authorisation processes, including the two-stage nature of the territorial and construction proceedings and their replacement by the sole procedure for the approval of the intention. Furthermore, it is certainly the integration of the institutions concerned, which means the abolition of almost all separate binding opinions. There will be one binding coordinated position, and it needs to be said that those who are not integrated, which are firemen and hygiene, will, of course, also be within those deadlines - fiction will apply to them - they have to deliver their opinions directly to the building office in order to work with it. [[17,00 hours]] There is certainly a content simplification within the framework of the new building law, which means the construction office evaluates and permits only in the minority of urban and basic architectural and technical solution of the intention, allowing the assessment of its mechanical resistance and stability, fire safety and impact on the territory and the environment, not the internal technical details of the building, which are the objects of the builder and designer. Furthermore, it sets out the construction law, unites and modernizes the requirements for construction, at least the basic, so far fragmented requirements for construction from many departmental decrees were brought directly into the law. Newly they will also have separate city regulations Prague, Brno, Ostrava. Another thing I have not talked about is the use of planning contracts and investor contributions in the territory for the legal enforcement of the interests of self-governments or builders and investors in the territory and the related increase in legal certainty of investors in the territory and ensuring the consent of self-governments. These agreements existed now, but, of course, the municipalities very much called for it to be - and now, forgive me for the word - legal to be allowed by law not to move anywhere on the edge of the law. Another very important point is participation and concentration of management. All concerned, including environmental associations, may participate in a single authorisation procedure, but they may only apply objections once and at a time when it is possible for the first time, that is as soon as possible, otherwise they will not be taken into account. That's very important. We talked about public participation here and so on, it is allowed, but it will not really be allowed to do so throughout the whole process - just at the beginning, or it will not be taken into account. There has certainly been a reform of the remedies, that is to say, separate reviews of the partial binding opinions that have abstained from the appeal proceedings have been abolished. The ping-pong is interrupted between the stage, i.e. the appeal building office must always remove the defects of the contested decision itself, must not just disturb it and return it to further proceedings. Digitisation: the whole process is to be conducted electronically, with original electronic documents in information systems, unitedly equipped with state administration. This means, it is very important that all construction agencies actually work with the same software and the same technology. Court review: there is an acceleration and deformisation of the judicial review, the concentration of the objections, the penalty for the lodging of bullying actions and the prior hearing of actions with a suspended effect. Territorial planning, we've been talking about this for a long time. The new building law does not restrict the role of self-government compared to the existing construction law, the key steps remain in the separate scope - the decision to acquire, approve the award, choose the most appropriate option, issue, approve the report on application and so on. I consider this to really be the most important points of the new construction law. Finally, I just point out once again that the delay in effectiveness will shift them, which means that it will be to 1. 1. 2024. So now, after an excursion to the new construction law, let me also apply to some amendments, which, as has already been addressed, are basically drawing up and even more alienating the whole proposal as such. First, then, House document 1905. This House document deals with the fact that the law speaks in connection with the planning documentation that it will order the buyer to renegotiate the scope of the substantial adjustment without undue delay. But, of course, you will no longer be able to read in the law what this is a substantial regulation, which is why Section 103 has been amended to make it really clear what is happening. This means, therefore, Section 103 will be that if, following consultation, the design of the planning documentation is modified, the public interests are newly affected, or, in the case of a zoning plan or regulatory plan, the ownership of the land and buildings, and neither the authority nor the owner had the possibility of applying the modified documentation to an opinion or comment, in parentheses - a substantial adjustment. So it's clearly defined there, what's a substantial adjustment, and I think it's for everyone's benefit, because otherwise, if it was just given on some "I think" that's a substantial adjustment, I think it would be for the construction industry's benefit. The second document or amendment that I would like to sign up to is House Document 2062, which concerns the public concerned. Of course, we are aware that by becoming part of a single, binding, coordinated position, we have been looking for a way for the public concerned to, of course, appeal against decisions. And since the decision is one and that's a building permit, so they've become a party to the proceedings and the associations that are under other compound laws. But it was absolutely essential to regulate in the construction law that only the scope of other laws was actually taken into account. This means, here we were talking about cutting trees and species plants and animals, so this is how Section 226, which means the procedure of the appeal body, where it is clearly written that the construction office will deal with the scope under Section 182 letters. (e) to the extent that the present plan does not affect the interests protected by other legislation which establishes its participation in proceedings under this law. This means, legitimately, yes, where they allow, but I will say it completely hard - it is not possible that these associations, which will have reservations about, for example, rare species or trees, suddenly conflict whether there are sufficiently secure windows or something, so really only to what they are responsible for. That is why I am asking for the support of 2062, because public participation is desirable, but everything must have its limits. In addition, it is the House of Document 2063. Here it concerns the fact that the planning contracts were originally written that only the capital city of Prague - like Prague, as a whole - could do them - but the city parts were quite legitimate here, and not only Prague, that the planning agreement does have an effect, that I do it in a particular territory, that is, it is not possible that it is only at the level of the capital city, but all the city parts of each city could prepare their planning agreement. So I also think it's definitely for the benefit. Another amendment, which I have uploaded into the system - but of course there are a lot of Members there, including those péespéčky, as well as those planning agreements are colleagues from Prague, they will certainly justify it - Patrik Nacher, Robert králíček and so on - for example here at the péespéček, there were no transitional provisions. If we have it on the zoning plan, logically, we should also have it on the implementation legislation for the new construction law, so this amendment here gives the right room for transitional provisions for Prague's construction regulations. And the last document 2375, which is very extensive, responds to several points. The first, therefore, is the unification of the formulation concerning the nuclear facility. Of course, individual wordings are being corrected, the division of competences between the Transport and Energy Building Office is proposed there and the refinement of the competence of the Ministry of Industry and Trade in the exercise of control of the operation of the Transport and Energy Building Office. It's probably better if you read it, 'cause that's probably the way it feels, but you'll see. I would probably stop at this amendment in particular in Section 18, because that is what we are doing with Minister Kupka, Minister Bartoš, and Jirka Havránek had a very thorough discussion with Jirka Havránek, because we have always seen it so that the construction office must offer a service to the builder, and it is written in Section 18 that it is actually possible for the construction office to initiate negotiations with the builder before binding opinions are issued or one binding opinion. It's very important. It will save money for everyone and at the same time it will be a comfortable service for applicants, so please support the document, the amendment under number 2375. Of course, I will join them in a detailed debate. [[17.10 hours]] Finally, I would like to say that many amendments have also been discussed with the Platform for Healthy Construction Law. We have tried to reflect the maximum possible, so I say, let us all feel that way, and I speak to the professional public, as a certain art of compromise, so that we can reach mutual agreement. And I would really like to thank everyone for their cooperation, and I believe that the builders will be relieved. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-005-903.u5	Thank you, too. I'm making one point of fact, and then I'll give you your priority right, Mr. Secretary. [[Minister Bartos.]] Mrs Eva Fialová. Please, your point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-005-903.u6	I'm gonna be so fast. I very much wanted to thank Mrs Dostálová for the comprehensive explanation of the various changes that will take place - I have often been referred to by the construction authorities, what will actually apply, and I myself, in a position designated by the representative for the planning documentation, listened very carefully and I really thank her with this thanks, I will refer to this speech, who will be asked by everyone - nevertheless thank all the actors who participated, and it is an exceptional agreement, to all the ministers who worked very well on it, and thank you for the excellent work done and for this compromise that was created. Thank you so much again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-005-903.u7	Thank you, too. Now, the minister and the petitioner with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-005-903.u8	I thank the Vice-President of the House for the summary. I didn't want to go into the details. I think it will probably be important in the third reading, when we will have some idea as well as within the dynamics of the House, to discuss the committees that have the majority support of the Members. This brings us closer to the final result. I would like to respond perhaps to two important things, because for the initiative that a large part of the issue of the speed of authorisation is not only in the process of authorisation, which primarily addresses the original recodification and the amendment to the construction law, but is in that part of the territorial planning. The debate was held during the last parliamentary term on the House platform, on the committee, when we were newly involved, for example, part of the academic community under ČVUT, which is also engaged in Building 4.0 within Industry 4.0. And that promise, when we look at the important elements in the area of planning documentation: as they say, it is complex, it is an activity that we are planning for the second half of the term, and we really wanted to amend that part of the planning period. I am a friend of subsidiarity in the matter of self-government, but I actually sometimes think that if we give everyone what they say they want at the very least, this could be quite a major problem, for example, in the case of building regulations, which individual cities would have adequate building regulations in Prague. With European notification comes financial implementation, which is in the order of several tens of millions for a process where construction regulations are validated. Of course, a lot of actors enter the debate and enter a lot of actors. I may sigh, for if academic degrees before names automatically mean, say, correct communication and good communication Yes, as my colleague Adamec says, education does not prevent stupidity, then I must say that some entries with people with whom you sit at the table and constructively deal with the procedure - it does not now concern Members and Members in the Chamber of Deputies - and then let's say not so much as behind-the-scenes, but as e-mail correspondence. [[Mr. Adamec's comment. Madam, don't shout!]] I often see that these are the same people with whom we found a consensual solution for an hour before, but I believe that even from the Platform, where there were about fifteen measures in the original proposal, and if I am not mistaken, 13 of them were integrated into the common solution, we finally found a consensus. I think it's important, and now I'm moving on to the land-planning thing. And to digitize the building control. When I performed in the field of the House and the Senate, rather than here in plenary at individual, say, conferences that were held at the beginning of this parliamentary term with our accession to the government, it was often discussed whether it was better to fix the construction offices and structures in the territory and then digitize them, or to do it at once or vice versa. In this case of digitalisation, I must say that we managed to unplug the intervention, which was especially with the attack on the original tender procedures, even as part of the digitization of the building process, today was the meeting of the Ministry of Interior with individual regions. And I'd like to say about one thing. I'm not going to read the technical requirements here, but actually the whole concept of the Construction Worker Portal should be and will be that one-stop-shop, that is, no client, no complex installation at the construction office, but really mandatory fast internet connection and basically a computer of this type, where you simply log into the web interface, which you will be performed according to your role by the building control, if you are a builder or similar. [[He's showing his laptop.]] We revised the architecture of this solution because it contained various elements that individual authorities and ministries already have, such as writing service. Why would we do it again when we have to work with documents dealt with at the level of the construction authorities. There has been some narrowing of implementation and digitization of the construction process in the part of the architectural and selection process. Now we had other consultations - there were dozens of companies - about the future solution. For me, everything at the moment. I just wanted to say that, from the perspective of the authorities, I would not worry about technical equipment - of course, training, technical equipment, the need for software licensing, as well as future DESÚ equipment, this is all in the process. It will be moderated through the Ministry of Regional Development, and I believe it will happen in time. Of course, this amended building law is the basis of how this system will work, who will enter it, and uniform methodology, methodology so that it really makes the same decisions, reflected the same legal standards and, for example, sublegal things, will then be partly given to the very digital environment where it does not allow you to do any action that cannot be done at the moment, and, of course, all important standards will be referred to there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-005-903.u9	Thank you. Just for the record, I say that the Minister with preferential rights, not with a factual remark. I will read the apologies and give another word: Mrs Markéta Adamová apologizes for Pekarová of work, from 14 to 16.30 and from 16.30 to 18 hours for reasons of work Mrs Michaela Opltová apologises, from 17 hours for reasons of work Mrs Pivoňka Vaňková apologises to Pavla and from 16.40 for reasons of work Mr Jan Skopeček apologizes. I note two factual points, the first Mr Patrik Nacher and then Mr Robert králíček. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-005-903.u10	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I've got the facts. I'll refer to Klára Dostálová's performance, if I may, using the Minister's presence. I will talk about this in my second reading on the subject from the point of view of large cities, the integration of government bodies, uniform standards and so on. But then there is one issue that did not come into the amendments and the main amendment, and Klára Dostálová spoke about it. It is a strengthening of self-government, territorial planning, it is not part of a comprehensive amendment, and I understand that this is a challenge to the future by the Ministry. It's presented as a systemic change that will be resolved later. So I would like to use this second reading to ask the Minister when the amendment is planned, which would concern strengthening the local planning authorities, because it is one of the seven categories that are not healed, so to speak, by amendments that will be drawn up here gradually, including the one I am signed for, and which I have the task in quotation marks for the capital city of Prague, but also for the big cities here to underline as important topics. That is, if, Minister, you can say, by when you would have done this, or expected it to be in this parliamentary term, but if it should be presented by the end of this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-005-903.u11	Thank you. Next, Mr Robert králíček is registered with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-005-903.u12	Mr President, colleagues, I would just like to supplement my colleague Nacher and take advantage of the fact that Minister Bartoš is here. As part of the digitization, I would like to ask if it already has a specific plan, whether the Digital and Information Agency will be involved in any way in the digitization of the building process, or how it will possibly tend to do things - whether it will be tendered by the MMR, or whether it will be given directly to the Digital Agency, which we actually have set up for digitization, or whether the plan is still at some stage of birth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-005-903.u13	Thank you, too. Mr. Secretary, do you report? [[He's talking to Minister Bartos.]] I'm registering Mr. Kupka's application here. I'm gonna ask you to clear up your voting devices so you can report to everyone under your card. It's a management meeting. Please, your point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-005-903.u14	I'm so sorry. Fortunately, it wasn't about the vote, and we share it. There aren't many settings here, the rapporteur's room, and at the same time two ministers in the merged debate. I'd like to react quickly on a factual note, I'll make it. The working group, as Minister Dostálová said, was established during the previous management of the Ministry of Regional Development in the area planning. I don't have an exact schedule. Ambition is indeed to have this approved and valid in the second half of this parliamentary term, i.e. just to work with some timetable, maybe within six months to have these things ready. There are these thesis, some proposals are, but there are really no solutions to the important things, such as protecting public interests, if they decided to proceed from the position of self-government in some way where the state would then judge with those municipalities. There's a bigger role of regulatory plans, that's what they're all about. I think that even those working groups in those 80 days are not working groups for groups, but we have achieved some results towards this second reading in the proposals submitted. I hope this is the pace, but first we need to actually complete legislative preparation. In the matter of digitizing the building control, I still have 54 seconds. Digital and information agency is not a state house software, it is not an agency that will program or deliver any solutions. It is an agency designed to cover digitalisation in terms of methodology, implementation of strategic projects, government delivery unit, help individual reviewers. It's got the core systems, the registers, the data boxes, the CzechPoints going through there. As the actual transfers of these agendas begin on 1 April, significant involvement in the DIA building management digitization project cannot be expected. There are key eWallet projects, digital wallet and digital identity. So the answer for Mr Králíček, through Mr President, the DIA is not a software house that would be programmed by the DSŘ for the purpose of the state.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-005-903.u15	Thank you, Minister. By doing so, we have exhausted all the preferential rights and factual remarks. We will continue with proper applications for the general debate. Mr Ivan Adamec will be the first to speak, Mr Petr Liška will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-005-903.u16	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Dear Minister, colleagues, I thought we were at second reading today, but according to the debate at the beginning, it reminded me of the first reading. But maybe it's just my stupid feeling. I want to say one thing, that my colleague Dostálová's performance, through you, was very interesting to me. I admit that maybe unlike a colleague from YES, I won't remember much of it, because it was so much information that, of course, if I want to relive it, I have to read it. I confess that I wanted to talk to a specific... Yeah, I agree, it was erudite. I think something's stuck in there, but I think I remember everything right now, that's probably not going to be after the meeting today, especially when you have your amendments in your head. I have to say, I'm always nervous to hear it: we made a deal, it's great, we found a solution, everything's covered in the sun. At that point, I'm getting a little bit scared, because of course, it needs to be said that if anyone thinks - and I'm glad that it happened, by the way, I appreciate it - but if anyone here thinks that this workshop is going to produce a perfect construction law, including environmental issues, I think they're very wrong. It's such a complicated material that there's gonna be a whole bunch of mistakes, and it's only in practice that it shows how it actually works. I am amused by the fact that when there are various awards here, I think they are given an award for the law, the law of the year, so I think that such awards are useless, that the award will be only if the public understands that the law is well written, that it serves the public well, entrepreneurs and simply all groups of our citizens and citizens. It needs to be said that the bill is a compromise, we were talking about it here. I've never questioned the law's content, not even in the last term. I would like to remind you that just before the last election, we all promised a new building law - everyone who made it to the House promised it. It's only now that we're getting to some possible functional model. It took a long time, but better for a long time, and at least sometimes than never. I'm happy for the deal, I repeat it again, but let's keep it down. It's just complicated. The last building laws that I thought worked may have been c. k. monarchy, because they were being built in a completely different way back then. The houses were different, the experiences were different, and not everything was supported by precise projects and so on, and the buildings or the buildings are still standing today. Today, how many times our builders wonder when they get in, how our ancestors actually built it, and they didn't need any complex building law, let alone a unified position. When I hear jes, DESÚ, I just always get the memories of soldiers who like to use these shortcuts. I might have such a personal impeccable desire not to use them, because then those who are not involved in our actions do not know what we are talking about at this time. But that's not how I wanted to talk about it. I have to get back to the way things were on the Economic Committee. I was glad that the economic committee had taken this part, the 132, the construction law, for discussion. I must say that this discussion went very well and we very much praised our cooperation with the Ministry of Regional Development officials and other ministries, because the progress of the Economic Committee last week was very rapid, I would say very pragmatic and the result was that only what we agreed went through was here in the House plenary. Just where the Ministry of Regional Development's negative position was, the amendments were withdrawn or not agreed. On the other hand, I've already said there's one more thing bothering me, and it's to solve it, I'm going to say it very simply, Lex Dukovany and Lex Brno, that means the pipe from Dukovan to Brno, because it's a matter, the idea is old, but thanks to the situation that occurred here after the Russian invasion and after the energy crisis, the idea is very topical, and why not use the pure heat from Dukovan for heating Brno and its surroundings, when it's offered to us and it's a circus of 40 kilometers plus minus? But there are some legislative steps that need to be taken to help this construction. One of those legislative steps is simply to separate the pipes of this capacity from the original structure, that is, from the core, with the fact that the designated building is actually going to be the pipe, the whole hot water system. Of course, it needs to be done so that it isn't just for Dukovany to do it in general, because we know special laws for one event, how they turned out. So here in our case, it would be that the pipe from a certain size, the hot water or the heat pipe, as I would call it, would be considered as a separate structure if its construction were not directly related to the construction of the source. There's an amended table of listed buildings, and I think I'm going to ask you to think about it a lot, because today, if the time comes, we should still approve 84, the transport infrastructure where we're going to include this hot water among the buildings covered by so-called Act 416, which means simplifying the construction of the last stage. If we can do this, I think we're gonna do a great deal of work to make the idea, the old idea of connecting Dukovany to Brno come true. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to thank all those who have participated in the discussion of this bill. It's not funny. I think that the construction law is what we need, and it needs to be mostly functional, and maybe I'd say it's as modestly, as simple as possible for users of this system. I know I may be naive, but I just think we're gonna go back to that in the future. As I was saying at the beginning, nothing at first is perfect, it needs to be used, it needs to be learned about the experience of what the law will be in practice. I believe that practice will show us that the shortcomings will be less than we may have thought, and that the shortcomings will be a character that can be easily corrected. I really want to believe that. I believe that we will succeed, and let us be prepared for that. [[17.30 hours]] Thank you for your attention, and I apologize for starting out with the fact that we're at second reading, not at first, but take it from me as such a folklore. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-005-903.u17	Thank you, too. Your contribution raised three factual points - the first Mr Ladislav Okleštěk, then Eva Fialová and Patrik Nacher. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-005-903.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Minister, dear colleagues, colleagues, at least the handful that we have left here. I'd like to comment on what my esteemed colleague Adamec said. I agree with him in the overwhelming majority, however, I think that the summary made by my colleague Klára Dostálová here was highly educational, and those who have no idea, and I don't think it at all ill, about the construction law - now they are not here, it is true - so they could just learn something and can find it on the website of the House in both printed and spoken form. So I think the performance definitely had a purpose. Of course, it used to be easier to build, but there was also other legislation. I remember the period of simple construction, but I won't be able to discuss it. I think it was just great that Klára said it the way she said it. Otherwise, I also very much appreciate the cooperation across the clubs, because if you want to, you can do it, here's a clear piece of evidence. As far as shortcuts go, I understand that, and we're really fooling people, we're fooling people with those shortcuts, because they don't know if it has anything to do with the environment, with the construction law, or with space research, so yes. We definitely support the tube to Brno because I said it briefly, but we definitely support the pipe to Brno because it makes sense. And now, of course, the question is that the law might have already been here. Well, there was one, but since this current coalition had a slightly different idea, it had to be worked out for a year and pulled out the simplest and most understandable from both materials. So for me... [[Time.]] Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-005-903.u19	Thank you for your tolerance. Now, Mrs Eva Fialová, Mr Patrik Nacher will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-005-903.u20	I would also like to respond to the words of my colleague Adamec, but I will not be so critical. I agree with you that it will certainly cost us a lot of birth pains, a new building bill and a unified environmental position, but those officials started to disappear. They started to get lost in what the last government approved, what the new government prepared, how it would be. When we told them that some comprehensive amendments were still being prepared, they almost woke up their hair on their heads and were confused. That's why I needed to thank Klára, because for the professional part that she can play at any time, any way she can, that certainly made sense to them, and for them, this performance is going to be one of the most comprehensive things to finally know, and to say what it was, it is and how it's going to be, what it's going to be and what it's going to look like. So for this reason - I understand that it was a long one, but for a professional public who will have to make some sort of decision in that territory, and they'll play this performance, at least they know what it's up to, what it's waiting for and what it's supposed to be ready for. And there was also important information that the efficiency of the match will be postponed from 1. 1. 2024, which is extremely important and can calm the mood of individual offices at the moment. Believe me, it's really yelling at oerps where there's no way to find a new person at the construction office and planning and so on. [[Warm?]] I'm really struggling with this, and I'm glad it's been explained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-005-903.u21	Thank you, too. Now, then, Mr Patrik Nacher, then Mr Ivan Adamec, factual remarks. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-005-903.u22	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'd just like to make a point of fact about my honored colleague Adamec, through you. In fact, you argued a little bit because he said, and I partly agree with him that with such a robust material, when there's a match, it's watered by the sun that it might be suspicious, on the one hand - it's not so. That was my question to the Minister that some things just aren't there and there's some promise, that's the zoning plan that they're gonna be there. However, I would like to thank my esteemed colleague Klára Dostálová for the summary of the subject precisely because it is a robust matter, precisely because it is very complicated. After all, it's three prints, it's a few committees, it's not an easy matter at all. And let me remind you historically that the original building law, if I'm not mistaken, won the title of the law of the year, right? So the law of the year and now we're actually starting over here, so I'm just reminding you. But just to sort of, I don't know how to say this, as he tickled my colleague Adamec, I will read here, for example, from the Declaration of Urban Architects, who wrote that the legislation submitted by the MMR has failed in the long run in creating conditions for a high-quality environment - "us, authorized architects and at the same time our cities and municipalities, this legislation makes it significantly difficult to create a quality living environment, to ensure the availability of housing and sustainable urban mobility" and so on. I won't delay, in other words, not everyone appreciates it. That means it's not all sunny. That's such a small point, thank you. Someone's got a pen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-005-903.u23	Otherwise, my colleague, if you tickle, only through the President. [[Member Nacher: Yes.]] Now, Mr Ivan Adamec with a factual remark and the Minister with a factual remark. I see you with priority rights. Okay, now, Mr Ivan Adamec, with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-005-903.u24	Dear Vice-President, Minister, fellow Members. Colleagues, I did not criticize this, you must listen to me in the context of what I say, through Mr President here, that is not so. I would like to thank my colleague Oklešťek, through Mr President, for supporting the trumpet from Brno to Dukovan and in the draft of this construction law, House number 330. I wasn't criticizing it, I'm just saying that if we just want to follow it, then the civil servants have to study the law, they have to do the interpretations and everything, it's not gonna be easy. As for the law of the year, you didn't listen to me either. For me, the law of the year is one that will be used by satisfied users, and it will not be evaluated by any commission under the law that has not yet been in practice. Sorry, that's how I feel. And nothing against it, I get it, it was just something that was completely new here, I get it. By the way, we had two ways out of it - either separate the government from the government, that was one step, or the second step was actually the one you tried in the past period. Turns out that's not the way to go. The other one didn't want most of us here in the House, so he had to take this step. And I welcome that, and I'm glad for that, and please don't take my word for it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-005-903.u25	Thank you. Now with priority rights, Minister Bartoš. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-005-903.u26	I would take the liberty of reacting to two things, although the idea that the employees of the building offices are watching this House's negotiations and decompose what I, Vice-President Dostálová or any of the Members, is an unrealistic idea. Construction authorities have some kind of methodology. By delaying the effectiveness of the law, they actually went according to old notebooks or according to the existing construction law, and the moment it is clearly fixed, the process of methodological management of construction offices will be launched, it will be done by the Ministry of Local Development under my direction, doing it under the previous management. At the same time, and here I would have responded to Mr Nacher, through Mr President, I also received the e-mails. Now let's say one thing. Since we have not touched on all these reservations - or we do not have a significant impact on this delegation, neither the previous government dared it, and even the admission of greater powers to cities with these regulations did not submit Klára Dostálová, nor did Prime Minister Babiš, because neither did the LRV recommend it - so these reservations are actually all applicable to the previous proposal that was there. We tried to find and found a significant way to move it, however, if on the one hand it was the law of the year, and at the same time very soon then it is wrong, because these architects criticize it. [[17.40 hours]] And it's the role of IPR and actually CityDeal, and it's more of a status thing, because maybe somebody couldn't explain to me how much faster it's going to get when the zoning plan isn't going to do this, but it's going to be a person under the council. Nobody explained that to me. When I see Brno, where the construction regulations are actually rebranded in Prague, either the cities are so specific and therefore needs each of its own building regulations, or it is not really true and only large cities need special modifications that go across the Republic. I think, and it is important to say this, anyone who enters into the process of building proceedings - a city, a citizen, a builder, a developer, an official, a ministry of any kind that protects any public interest - has some legitimate demand for the resulting product - and here I thank Mr Ivan Adamc, through Mr President - and he applies it under the agreement. At this point, it's some kind of consensus. Of course, in the finish line, everyone's trying to pull it off even though there's a deal, it's going to happen here in the House. And I think that the revision of the land-planning area is absolutely essential, and I will come back to that, although the amendment to the permit section will significantly, but significantly accelerate the construction process. Even from developers, from people who are investors, but also from people who are involved in the development of the city, it is said: Twice measure, one cut. If, within the framework of spatial planning, we manage to target the future project, the future construction that is supposed to be there, how high it should be, to whom it should serve, what infrastructure it is supposed to be, you are actually entering the territory more formally within the scope of the permit, because you know with almost 100% certainty how the project you intend to submit under the authorisation may look like, because those interests are settled in the area of planning. This is what I think is important in the report, as well as for the municipalities that have this legitimate interest, and for the various unions. Architects want this, engineers, technicians will tell you: This you are crazy, have different building regulations at the level of these cities. We are trying to find a compromise that will sit on the highest level of construction and solutions for individual cities. And I respect that the House is a suvren, because if I had decided to correct those things already once by the House approved recognition of its own construction regulations in Prague, Brno and Ostrava, the Ministry of Regional Development would have proposed to cancel as a non-systemic solution, which I do not, which I do not think - nor did we count on it in this proposal - which I think is a good way to go. But, of course, I cannot support something that, by the nature of the matter, was not supported by the LRV of the previous government and did not go through the government's proposal of the previous government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-005-903.u27	Thank you, Minister. I note two factual points, Mrs Eva Fialová, and then Mrs Klára Dostálová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-005-903.u28	Thank you for the floor. I'll respond to the Minister, if I may. Mr. Secretary, I have a need to stand up for these officials here. You're out of your mind that they wouldn't be watching this in this case. Today, for example, it is already after working hours, after office hours, and I wrote to the head oerpéčky in our country that we are beginning to discuss the construction law. The answer was: I'm going home and I'm going to play it, I'm watching and we're sending text messages, how we react here, what we say. So it's not true. When it was the first reading, they wanted to know what the law looked like, they wanted to send links to the Stenoprotocol, and they wanted to prepare for it because they were responsible employees, they wanted to help the territory, and they wanted to know what they were going to expect. I understand that you have your training and methodical instructions, but do not wish to know - I do not want them to be pursued - what they receive for information from these trainings and what some of your officials themselves say that they do not know how it will be, at these trainings, because they do not receive information. That's a bare fact when it goes... I understand that you're smiling right now, but I'm giving you the intel from practice on how it worked, and I'm happy for this and for Klára Dostálová's performance. We can prepare for it in some way, even the officials. And it's not true that they weren't watching, you're really wrong.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-005-903.u29	Thank you. Now, Mrs Klára Dostálová, Mr Patrik Nacher will be prepared, both with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-005-903.u30	Thank you. Only to the Minister. I'll be very brief just to get it right. The new building law has indeed won the law of the year, including the support of the Architects Chamber, and so on with the promise that we will pursue the zoning plan, but they, of course, in legitimate expectation that when the amendment is being made, it will also take place in the planning process, which is why now the dissatisfaction. Let's just say that we really can't let it lie down, that these cities just have some expectations and that we need to focus on it. Once again, I offer the cooperation of the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-005-903.u31	Thank you, too. Now, then, Mr Patrik Nacher. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-005-903.u32	Thank you, Mr President. I'll finish the positive atmosphere. I thank the Minister for responding. I would like to assure him that what I said here is not just for myself, but I consulted him with Zdeněk Hřib, Petr Hlaváček, who is in charge in Prague. I was equipped with topics that relate to this amendment, which I will talk about between points 1 and 6. These are just healed by a comprehensive amendment. And I have been tasked here to simply highlight the land-use planning, because it is not just about Prague, but about all major cities or major cities. In other words, it's not just my opinion that I'm the only person here who thinks so, but it's really the opinion of the city's leadership, in which the Pirate Party plays a significant role. That means that you're actually there apart -- from the magistrate, the MMR is some 200 meters away -- so that's what it takes to get these things straight. So much for finishing the painting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-005-903.u33	Thank you, too. We have therefore exhausted the factual points and will continue the general debate, which is merged on three points. Mr Petr Liška will now appear, Mr Richard Brabec will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-005-903.u34	Mr President, Minister, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I would like to speak briefly here on the two amendments that we have tabled together with my colleague, Michaela Opltová. This is Amendment 1938 to the House of Press 328, which is justified in detail in writing and which relates to the simplification of the process with environmental opinions during the construction process, the second Amendment No 2369 to the House of Press 330, which is also duly justified in writing and which concerns the construction of energy infrastructure, namely nuclear installations and buildings related to these buildings, where it specifies the scope of the MIT for these buildings. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-005-903.u35	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. When there is a detailed debate, I will ask you to read the numbers of these amendments. I will now ask Mr Richard Brabec to speak, and Patrik Nacher will be prepared in a general debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-005-903.u36	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I wanted to say, Minister... But where is he? Yeah, yeah, over there. So, Minister, colleagues, colleagues. I've prepared it for a fine hour, but seeing as things are going so well here, the work is probably going to be wasted, Mr Adamc won't get caught. He said he was hoping that... [[The President enters into speech: through me.]] Yeah, yeah. I was just about to ask whether Mr Adamec can be tickled by your hand or directly, because it is probably for his colleague Nacher, through you, yes, that also sounds logical. [[President: Only by means of a procedure.]] And just the same, something should get stuck in your way. That's the idea I'm gonna keep, and that's how I'm gonna work with her in the next performances. But I don't know what's so funny? I think it's for this show. I am, exactly, not going to be upset, even if you are trying to do so, colleagues, colleagues, by your means, Mr President. I wanted to go to print 328 and 329, i.e. a unified environmental position and related laws, because I thought it was important here to remind you that the idea is not entirely new. In fact, the Ministry of the Environment came up with it about three years ago, because that was when we were discussing the way in which the agenda, which is under the many stamps, could still be squeezed into the stamp of one. At the time we called it a single environmental permit, so today it is called a uniform environmental position. [[17.50 hours]] We have retreated from this idea only because, after the debate with Minister Dostálová, the Minister for Regional Development, of the time, we have come to the conclusion that if all this is eventually coordinated and integrated into a single position, there is no need for a further stamp to be made within this single position. And I think it's very important, because now that you think about it, we've basically moved into - basically thanks to the agreement, and I'm saying I'm not going to thank you, we'd all be thanking each other here into the seven, I think this has worked out - so we've come to a similar position in which we basically were in three years ago, which means that once again this unified environmental position will be part of some cases of a coordinated position. And that is what I think is the greatest priority, because if I repeat it again, what was the biggest problem we all remember, we of us who were here in the past periods, that may have been, except for some narrow groups, in principle, a rare consensus in that the main objective is that all those who have something to say about it, but in this case, in the environmental context, when I talk about it, but to do it once, it means that there should be no chaining going on, or in territorial proceedings, or in the EIA, if the project is linked to the EIA, then in territorial proceedings, then in building proceedings. In a number of cases, of course, this means three separate processes, which in the finals will cause the construction to be prepared for fifteen years and will eventually be built for about two years. And that's something I think everyone cared about. And that's why, and I think there was a consensus on this, or there was definitely a consensus on the Ministry of the Environment, and that's why we tried to make this target come true because it was clear that conflicting interests were there. Developers wanted to build quickly, on the other hand, some activist environmental organisations wanted to enter environmental protection repeatedly, and in some cases, of course, it meant a substantial delay in the process because it could be sued repeatedly. Then those courts were overwhelmed by submissions which were identical in many cases in the various stages of the construction procedure. So that's something that I think finally worked out, and now we're going to do it again. And it is precisely because of the fact that in recent weeks there has been an agreement that even the single environmental permit or opinion, sorry, a single environmental position, i.e. the famous JES, would be re-installed, then integrated into a single coordinated opinion. And here I want to emphasise one more thing that was very important to us at the time and remains in this form that in areas that are most valuable in terms of environmental protection, i.e. in national parks, national nature reserves, natural reserves and in protected landscape areas, where environmental protection really has the highest priority and highest value, the national park management or management of the protected landscape area should continue to decide according to the Nature and Landscape Protection Act. And that was also what we have been trying to do all along and where the agreement was already with the Ministry of Regional Development, even if it was not easy for them, because of course it was a concern that other subjects would also want to have some of their specialty pigsty - forgive me that word - where they will decide themselves, for example from the point of view of cultural monuments and so on. In the end, this was partly the case, but it was able to defend itself. I considered it a very good conclusion at the time that it was a consensus, and it was indeed a big compromise at that time, that in these areas, let's say, the most protected, where the public interest in environmental protection is clearly prevailing, the important role of environmental protection authorities, as I said, will continue to be the administration of national parks and the management of protected landscape areas. So it would be decided by the same people as it has been. This principle has indeed been defended, and consequently in the coming weeks and months, because we have also repeatedly discussed this on the Committee on the Environment, some things related to the laws. And I'm not going to go into specific detail here, even though I had it prepared, but I'm just going to briefly remind you that, of course, in the 32nd, which is related laws, there's a whole series of things that may be a little pale under the principal principle, which means that they're mainly talking about a single environmental statement. But there are also very important changes that occur in a number of other laws, such as the law on geological works, on conservation of nature and landscape, on the protection of the agricultural soil fund, the Environmental Impact Assessment Act, the EIA, the Forest Act, on waters, on air protection and others. That means, I say again, I will not go into the various changes now, and finally what has been passed by the Committee on the Environment and where there was agreement within the Committee on the Environment, these were the conclusions on which the agreement was made within the very last meeting, which took place at the level of the Ministry for Local Development, the Ministry of Environment, the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Culture and others, where several amendments were approved under the comprehensive amendment, which was then carried out by the Ministry, pardon, the Committee on the Environment. And once again, given that there is an interest in the second reading today, I do not want to delay it specifically. But from my point of view, although I was not needed for all the amendments, for most of them, I say for myself: yes, I am glad that there is really something going on here or that we are going back to the original idea that, where possible, something that is still subject to a coordinated, that is, a binding position becomes a single environmental position. That means, it's really one stamp in the finals, and it's fulfilling the original intention. But already the idea of a single environmental permit, I repeat, was created a few years ago, and it has the main effect that the agendas that really ended today in a number of cases were so that the builder learned some essential things during the preparation of the construction and did not know them at the beginning, so today it will really be able to take it to one place where the official will coordinate with each other, and thus the builder will not be forced to run between the agendas as in the fairy tale of the rooster and the chicken and gradually learn what awaits him. And the key thing is that all of this can be done so that public interest in environmental protection is preserved and not threatened. This means that what is really getting shorter is not the quality of the process from an environmental point of view, but the time and, of course, the costs that the builder has to prepare the construction, and it doesn't matter whether it's the big builders or the smaller ones. [[18.00 hours]] This means that what is really getting shorter is not the quality of the process from an environmental point of view, but the time and, of course, the costs that the builder has to prepare the construction, and it doesn't matter whether it's the big builders or the smaller ones. So again, I consider this summit agreement between the various ministers and my dear colleague, Klára Dostálová, Vice-President of the House, to be very desirable and I think it really is a case worthy of following. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-005-903.u37	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Patrik Nacher, who is now duly registered, will be prepared by Mr Jan Berki. I will read an apology before I give the floor: Mrs Jana Mračková Vildumetzová apologizes from 17.15 for family reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-005-903.u38	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Government, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as part of my second reading, I would like to bounce off the amendment, which you will find under number 2376, will certainly read it here and sign up for it in a detailed debate by Klára Dostálová. This is a transitional provision for implementing legislation. I'll read the justification here, and then I'll say the context of it all. For reasons of legal certainty, it is proposed that the existing implementing legislation should apply in the period between the adoption of the implementing legislation for the new construction law and the repeal of the implementing legislation for the applicable and effective construction law. This will certainly build on what legislation it is necessary to design constructions and intentions. It is § 332a and this transitional provision is not later than 1 July 2027. I understand from this whether the Minister listens, as well as the other Minister, that all the amendments are the work of some compromise and consensus that arose here. I'm glad for that, this is one of them, and I read it here because it actually relates to the third point that I can get to regarding the Prague construction regulations. I'll give it a little bit in the beginning. As I said to the Minister, I really got material from the leadership of the capital city of Prague, where we are in opposition, so I would not have to, but as Prague's MP and Prague's representative I will defend it whether I am in coalition or in opposition, and in the coalition there are Pirates until recently, actually the foundation was created when Zdeněk Hřib was mayor, that is to be underlined. And there it was - I actually got to it - seven basic knowledge and points that were not in the proposal that originally came out of the MMR, and which are healed by all the amendments that are here, especially by the complex proposal that Klára Dostálová and Minister Kupka prepared - except for the seven. To sum it up very briefly, the first is the integration of public authorities for building procedures - that is part of it. As far as I can see, except firefighters and hygiene, but I think he's more or less okay. The second point or the second chapter are the integration of government authorities for spatial planning, which is also part of a comprehensive proposal, it is the same principle as with authorisation. The third is the failure of Prague's construction regulations. That's what I think is fundamental, and that's where the original proposal was without transitional provisions, so we would suddenly get into some kind of time vacuum. This is healed by the amendment, as I quoted here, § 332a. Then Klára Dostálová joins him - to read it completely, the amendment is a Member of Klára Dostálová and Members of Bohuslav Svoboda, Jakub Michálek - so that colleagues of the Minister, Robert Králíček and Patrik Nacher. So that is point 3, the legal continuity in this matter. Point 4 is a uniform standard, which is essentially a matter when you look at it, that a uniform data standard will allow a uniform display where the centre of gravity of the thing is in graphics, not in data. That's how I picked up, I quote. And when I looked into the Declaration of City Architects, which is not only Prague, I am there because of the above - which they describe on those five pages, we all got it, there is a challenge and there is actually something similar - in this challenge is the limitation of standardization of territorial plans on data, not the way of graphics. In other words, that in some things - I would like to underline this here - this is not just the view of Prague, but the larger cities as a whole - that this issue concerns basically everyone, so that someone does not say that they are again some separate wishes of Prague. In this it is necessary - and here I understand that there is a cooperation agreement between Prague and the Ministry of Regional Development - to resolve the recast of the decrees that follow. So I'm saying again, for those of you who don't know, the magistrate is 200 meters away from the ministry, and I think this should work. Point 5 is the shortening of the process for the procurement of land-use planning documentation. That's what it says. Item number 6 - a zoning plan expressing public interest. It's a question of what it is, who's going to determine it, but it's there. And we are coming to point 7, which is the strengthening of the regional planning authorities, which is not part of a comprehensive proposal at the moment. And I am glad and thank the Minister for Regional Development that a binding promise has been made here on the microphone - or I do not know how else to take it - that on my question, when can we expect this, so in this parliamentary term and that it would have started working on it already in this calendar year - did I understand that correctly? - to make it, because the expectations, as Klára Dostálová said, are here in this. And as I understand it, there's a consensus across the political spectrum in this, just that there's some, I don't know, fear of officials at the ministry, that by being a system change, so there's no mistakes. Let me conclude by saying that this is the seven points that sum up what was not only missing from the capital, but now it is supplemented by amendments. I agree with all these amendments, I have signed some of them, one of them I have told you here. And then I would like to underline the basic matter of strengthening self-government and territorial planning, and I say it here for the third or fourth time, maybe I'll come back to it at third reading, but I was really obliged to do so by the capital city of Prague. And now I will take the last sentence, which actually says it in other words, that is the declaration of urban architects, where they call on us that the new building law is coming into the hands of Members - we can see that. "As part of the negotiations on the overall amendment to the substantive amendment to the new Construction Act, the promise of the Minister for Regional Development, Ivan Bartoš, on the ongoing continuation of the amendment to the entire part of the zoning planning, even during this parliamentary term, is part of the negotiations." In other words, I meant that it is not only the wishes of the capital city of Prague or here of the Member Nacher, as mine, but it is really some technical view of urban architects, the Czech Chamber of Architects and so on and so on. You all got it in your e-mails. So much for second reading. I assume that in a detailed debate, Klára Dostálová will first sign up to Amendment 2376, so I will no longer speak in that detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-005-903.u39	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. In fact, Minister Ivan Bartoš is reporting. Your point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-005-903.u40	I'm just in the short run, because these topics are repeating themselves here. We, of course, at the level of the Ministry of Regional Development in the debate with Prague, with CityDeal, with representatives of municipality, can solve requirements for planning documentation, even with architects and others. The process is running, only when you focus on the amendment of a rather fundamental text, so get the activity going, which concerns the planning area, they are the same people or those similar teams that are dealing with it, there is simply no way to double if we focus on the quality law in the novel, as it is now. And maybe it's just the question of its own, that is, subsidiarity rules all the time. At this point, and even under the new construction law, you can specify the requirements in the territory through regulatory plans, where you will target the possibilities precisely. Just to discuss it, it often sounds like: We've had it for years and years before. The mechanics is like that, like those technical decrees that actually express in building regulations and then in the decree of the Ministry of Regional Development, they are based on European legislation. When European legislation changes, such as technical requirements for construction, it evokes the amendment of the Ministry of Regional Development decree, which will take this into account. In the convention, if there are own building regulations, according to which the builder looks at the law, he looks at a decree that is universally valid, and then even looks at some specifics in the construction regulations of the city, greater takes, if there is a contradiction, he must follow the higher superior. This is a process that is quite complex. And at the same time, you can't have an implementing decree for something that isn't as valid at the moment as it is. So sooner or later, any city that has some construction regulations of its own, even with regard to the amendment of European legislation, must amend because it is contrary to legislation that is beyond that. So it is important to say this to each other, and at every stage, these sub-legal standards must be amended in the same way as the decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-005-903.u41	Thank you, Minister. Mr Jan Berki is now duly registered, Mr Jiří slavík will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-005-903.u42	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, Ministers, Colleagues, Colleagues, I will take a moment to address the issue of local or urban building regulations, although I realize that it is quite sensitive. However, I would like to point out why we are actually dealing with this issue. Here I assume the consensus is that the aim is to give large cities, given their size, whether territorial, population or composition specifics, as the city originated, so that the cities can influence their form and thus their future. What I've noticed from these discussions is that we have two solutions. One is the building regulations of the city, which is its own. I would say the benefits and the risks of this solution have emerged from the discussion. At the same time, I am aware that in these speeches you are also describing some alternative solutions in the form of regulatory plans and regulation of the national decree, but this is a solution which also has its advantages and also its limits. So the way I see it now is that we listen to each other, we see our arguments. What we differ in or break up at the moment is in the opinion of which one of these instruments is more effective. Nevertheless, I thank you for the discussion. Now, with permission, I would like to follow up on the presentation of Vice-President Dostálová in connection with the test. I realize that this is some kind of compromise, in the sense that we're setting up a test, we're going to test whether or not this is a good solution. I'm just seeing a weak spot right here in that we're setting it up only for the three metropolitan cities according to strategy, and that's because they're specific. If we want to do this as a test, then let's - and you yourself, I would like to quote you: "I can imagine one or two more cities," so I would personally advocate that the two cities are still there, namely the two largest cities that are not metropolitan, but in addition to the fact that I prefer this trip, that is to say I am interested in trying this trip, at the same time they have a professional apparatus prepared to become suitable candidates for testing this trip. So I'm actually using your speech and your offer to try to convince you that it's appropriate to extend these cities to the top five. At the same time, I would like to say a little bit to Minister Bartoš, who was also talking about sharing, i.e. about the costs that this could bring with it. It is precisely that this leads to the cooperation of those cities, which you have described here several times, that can lead to cost sharing, which is an efficient use of funds. I will sign up for the amendment itself in detail in the debate. I have therefore tried to follow the words of the former Minister and of the present Minister, in addition to the reasons I have given on the committee itself, and to try to explain why this solution, which I propose in the amendment, is a good solution. And with permission, I would like to follow up briefly with my colleague Nacher, at that point in his 7th and the territorial planning of the separate remit, and here I welcome the fact that the agreement between the current Minister and the former Minister is that it is a good idea, and I respect that at this point, however, he raises so many questions that it is good to deal with them separately by a novel which will come subsequently, and I am glad that the commitment or promise has been made by both. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-005-903.u43	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. The duly signed Member Jiří slavík will now appear and Minister Martin Baxa will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-005-903.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me comment on the Government's proposal, the amendment to the Construction Act, as well as the Single Environmental Opinion Act. Let me begin by thanking all colleagues who have participated across the political spectrum in the agreement on the amendment of the construction law and JES, as well as the officials of the Ministry of Regional Development and the Ministry of Environment who have worked on the amendments day and night. I consider it very important that we were able to meet together for a common solution to speed up the approval of the construction of both public and private buildings with regard to technical standards, such as the construction law. Today, many have been said here, both by the ministers, the rapporteur and, above all, by Vice-President Dostálová. However, allow me to highlight several aspects of the legislation under discussion. Personally, I consider it a very important principle of 'one office, one document', called a coordinated binding position, including a single environmental position, which is a fundamental simplification of the authorisation process compared to the current situation. This process assures the builder that one expert opinion will not contradict the other, as is often the case at present. The entire coordination will be the responsibility of the construction office, which has the task of leading all interested parties to the agreement so that a building permit can be issued in a timely manner. Maintaining the current model of public administration is very important. There will be staff stabilization of current officials both at municipal offices with extended scope and at regional offices. In the event of the creation of a state building administration, the officials threatened not to go to the new regional government offices of construction, or to the new super-office in Ostrava, and the new law would thus run with insufficient people, or with inexperienced officials, and the standard, if it were even better, would lead to an extension of the construction procedure in my opinion. [[or]] [[18.20 hours]] On the other hand, it must be said that even after the amendment, including the comprehensive amendment, all good elements will remain in the construction law as they were adopted in the past. As an example, I'd like to give the fiction of building approval. On the contrary, what I believe - and this has already been said here - is not entirely ideally addressed, is the area of territorial planning, which certainly deserves another debate, and I think it should be directed towards being in separate scope for the future, although it should be noted that the overall amendment also entails maintaining a reduction in the procurement of territorial plans, which has not yet been included in the new building law. Furthermore, as a member of the Economic Committee and the Transport Sub-Committee, I would like to welcome the establishment of the Transport and Energy Building Office, which, in my opinion, will lead to the speeding up of the occupation of transport and energy buildings, as we will again be able to retain our staff on individual ministries, experts who will, on the one hand, address appeals to these buildings, and, on the other hand, the most important buildings will be able to allow themselves. I will also return to a single environmental position and to the environment at all, when one of the amendments to House print number 329, under which I am co-signed, addresses public participation. This issue has now been very discussed, we have all received many emails saying that this area is not sufficiently addressed. I think that this amendment is based on public concern that they will be completely excluded from decision-making on issues of nature and landscape protection, and ensures public participation in a procedure in which it decides to permit the felling of trees growing outside the forest or to grant an exemption from the prohibition on the protection of memorial trees, particularly protected species of plants and animals. Public participation will be ensured both in administrative proceedings under the Nature and Landscape Conservation Act and newly in proceedings for the approval of the project under the construction law on the basis of the JES. I believe that this will ensure sufficient public and environmental participation. I think that the amendments that have been made across the opposition are correct and that is why I supported them all, signed them all for the TOP 09, and I believe that they will be adopted by this House. [[a coalition; and]] I think that almost every citizen will be affected by this law, which is why the agreement is very important. I believe that if good implementation regulations are prepared in individual ministries, the construction proceedings in the Czech Republic will accelerate and make them more effective, which is certainly the goal of all representatives in the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-005-903.u45	Thank you. Have a quiet evening. The next is Minister Martin Baxa and Mrs Monika Oborná will be prepared. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-005-903.u46	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I would just like to slightly correct your approach, because I have let it matter here that I have entered into a general and detailed debate, and I would like to speak as a Member from Pilsen. That's what I'm saying right here, as an MP from Plzeň. I didn't even take advantage of my preferential rights in this matter. Colleagues, colleagues, I would like to make two amendments that are linked to the fact that I come from Pilsen and have been the mayor of this city for seven years. [[Reactions in the O.R.]] Ladies from the first bench here say "Pilsen," but that's not really what they say in my town. I hope that my colleague Farhan - who has headphones - will support me - is from Pilsen, not from Pilsen. Logically, the first amendment is the amendment under number 2373, which I propose that the city of Plzeň should be added to the list of cities which are given the opportunity to issue a delegated regulation laying down detailed requirements for the definition of land, the placement of buildings and technical requirements, the so-called building regulations. An amendment has already been tabled here by Mr Berki, who dealt with Liberec and Pilsen. I think that Liberec is also ready, but I can say from my personal experience that the city of Plzeň is undoubtedly ready to issue such a document. We had a zoning plan as a large city drawn up according to the originally valid deadlines without any shifts, as it was then assumed that it should be, and I think that we have a nationwide respect for the ability to conduct quality management in the area of spatial planning, to process all the documents needed to do so, and we would certainly be able to manage our building regulations in this way. My second amendment under number 2391 concerns a matter which is no longer explicitly Pilsen, but is related to our experience. This is a transitional provision for a uniform standard of planning documentation, when we simply propose - now we say, I consulted my former colleagues within the city of Pilsen and the City of Pilsen - we propose a delay until 31. 12. 2028 when it is actually adapted so that the municipalities have sufficient time to bring this relatively significant change into life. I just want to stress that I, as a Member and colleagues of experts in this area, agree with the introduction of uniform standards on land-planning documentation. I suppose the petitioner of this proposal has already spoken about this. But the current model is very strict at that time and it is actually disadvantageous for those who have developed their territorial plans on time, according to methodology, at a very high level. As I say, we want a uniform standard of planning documentation to exist, only in this case I propose that this amendment under number 2391 should be moved to deadline 31. 12. 2008. Who would want to do it sooner, of course, can. And once again, with regard to the speaker, the Minister for Regional Development, I stress that these suggestions are not related to my government function, but to the experience of the mayor of the fourth largest city in the country, which I always proudly say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-005-903.u47	I also thank the Member of the Pilsen Region for the speech. And now, Madam President, with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-005-903.u48	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I would only, on the basis of the agreement of the Presidents of the Clubs of Parliament, look at Rozvoral, if he nods as a representative of the President, that we would negotiate after paragraph 295 of the House press, paragraph 84 inclusive. [[Agreed.]] We'd be done with that moment, no matter if it's past 19 o'clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-005-903.u49	Thank you. So I call on my colleagues from the lobby. So point 84, including, would be the end of our negotiations and we will vote on the negotiations and the vote after 7:00 p.m. I'll just make sure, Madam President, even after 21st, or only after 19th? Let's get it right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-005-903.u50	Madam Vice-President, I'm sure it's enough after 19 o'clock. That's what I think there's a will to negotiate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-005-903.u51	Thank you for the clarification, thank you. So that everyone knows what we are going to vote on: we will now vote on the proposal for a meeting and a vote after 19 o'clock. [[Checkout request.]] Okay, I'm checking everyone out. I'd like you to rejoin your I.D. cards. Please log in with ID cards. [[18.30 hours]] And now I can begin the vote on the negotiations and the vote after 7:00 p.m. today. Who's in? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? In the vote number 101, 81 votes were cast, for 79, against 0. So the meeting and the vote after 19 o'clock were adopted. Thank you, and we can go back to the debate. I will add an apology in the meantime: Mr Aleš Dufek apologizes from 19 o'clock for work reasons. [[Noise in the hall.]] And I'm gonna ask my colleagues and colleagues to leave the O.R. for an exciting discussion that's been going on here. Please, let's give Mrs. Oborná peace of mind for her performance. Please, madam, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-005-903.u52	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I will really only make very briefly clear my amendment, which is inserted in the system as House document 2390. A more detailed explanation is written in writing in the system, so really only very briefly. This amendment proposes the deletion of point 1 in Part Three of the Art. III of the Government's draft law by which the Government's proposal proposes to exempt from the rule of law a provision which provides for an exemption from the rule laid down in Section 4 (1) of the Act. 3 of the Law on the protection of the agricultural soil fund where the areas are defined as pauseable or as areas of the territorial reserve in the applicable planning documentation. In other words, this government bill makes it impossible for agricultural land I and II to continue to be. the classes of protection without further removal from the agricultural soil fund, if they have been defined as pauseable areas or as areas of the territorial reserve in the applicable planning documentation. I believe that this government bill thus threatens and, above all, undermines the predictability of legal relations, legitimate expectations and legal certainty in the relationship between urban development and the municipality and the agricultural land fund, and is thus ultimately harmful to the constant change in legislation. That is why I believe that this part of the law is not appropriate, and I tabled this amendment. Thank you in advance for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-005-903.u53	Thank you, Madame. Now, Mr Jiří Havránek, Mrs Marie Pošarová will prepare herself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-005-903.u54	Thank you for the floor. I will also be very quick to justify several of my amendments. First, the House document 2379, which relates to the construction of base stations near railway corridors and to the last mile (?) where the Internet is not available. My colleague Nacher will notice that I recorded a similar amendment to the law on electronic communications, but there has been an adjustment and a changeling, which is in the law on electronic communications, I will then withdraw. House document 2380, this is the amendment that I propose with my colleague Jakub Janda. Completion of some annual work on the concept of waste housing, which can be very important for the future of the Czech countryside, the real countryside. I don't mean Prague-East, Prague-West - I don't want to touch anyone - but maybe Kutná Hora County and others. House document 2386, these are the proposals that we discussed with the professional public. This concerns the Line Act. It is the implementation of some small things in cooperation with the Ministry of Transport and the Confederation of Industry and Transport. Similarly, it is Parliamentary document 2387, which we present with fellow Minister Ivan Bartoš, Vice-President Klára Dostálová and also Robert Králíček. There are several more precise resolutions, whether it concerns energy buildings, the supervision of the designer, the built-up territory. These are all things that we have, as I say, and it has also been said here several times by Patrik Nacher, dealing with the professional public and with the Platform for Healthy Construction Law. The other two House documents, 2382 and 2383, I submit them myself and concern the alternative acceleration of the construction of strategic buildings. These were amendments to the House press 330. To the press 329 House document 2384, where protection zones are being specified, and House document 2385, which is prepared after discussion with ministries, and there concerns the refinement of air protection powers between building authorities and authorities that will exercise the validity of a single environmental position. Thank you. I hope I was quick and quick.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-005-903.u55	Thank you, others will judge. I would also like to ask Mrs Marie Pošarová, as the last one to sign up in the merged debate on our three related prints. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-005-903.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on the amendment to the Construction Act. I am pleased that there has been a compromise solution within the coalition and opposition. It was a constructive approach, we found common ground. The amendment includes as much good as possible from the new construction law except for the institutional model. At the same time, good parts have been integrated at the level of the ORP, remaining small construction offices, all construction offices are asking for a uniform, binding coordinated position - a community with extended scope or a region, for dedicated buildings is the Transport and Energy Building Office, for which a unified position is issued by the Region. A certain hierarchy of procedures is ensured. There has been integration, the fiction remains, the appeal principles remain, what was also in the new building law. Digitisation should cover all of this, and there will be a faster building process, and that is why we support it. Anyway, I would like to comment on a colleague from the Pilsen Region, Mr Bax, that I will consider his amendment because it is Pilsen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-03-07-ps2021-053-05-005-903.u57	Thank you, Madame. And I'm just going to ask, for the sake of order, if anyone else is interested in speaking in a merged general debate? If this is not the case, I am ending the merged debate on the House prints No 328, 329 and 330. Now, let me ask you, first of all, to paragraph 130, to the press 328, does the Minister, the plaintiff's representative, want to take the final floor? It's not like that. It's a uniform environmental position. The rapporteur? It's not like that. For the sake of order to paragraph 131, print 329, is there again an interest in final words? It's not. And to print 330 interested in final words? It's not. This is why we have dealt with the formalities for this moment, and now the detailed debate will take place on individual points, respectively, on the House prints separately, so that the Members of Parliament and the Members can sign up properly for their amendments. So at this point, I am opening up a detailed debate on the point
