ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-02-ps2021-065-07-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 65th session of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. In order to record our participation, I will first sign you out and ask you to sign up with your ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who is applying for a replacement card. I am saying that the following Members have asked to apologise for their failure to attend the meeting: Pekarová Adamová Markéta all day, Adámková Věra all day - health reasons, President Adamová apologises on the ground of a foreign trip. Bačíková also apologizes to Jana all day - personal reasons, Bašta Jaroslav all day - health reasons, Bauer Jan whole day - working reasons, Bělica Josef whole day - working reasons, Bělobrádek Pavel whole day - personal reasons, I have one more option - all day for working reasons, Bernard Josef until 9.30 - working reasons, Burešš Jan whole day - working reasons, Dvořák Jaroslav whole day - working reasons, Foldyna Jaroslav whole day - medical reasons, Golasowská Pavla whole day - medical reasons, Hájek Jiří whole day - working reasons, Hrnčíř Jan whole day - medical reasons, Jáč Ivan whole Jakub - working reasons - Janda days - personal reasons, Kašník Pavel whole day - working reasons, Knechtová Lenka whole day - medical reasons - medical reasons, Kobza Jiří whole day - foreign travel. Ladies and gentlemen, please be calm, thank you very much. Once again, I apologise to Mr Kobza for the whole day on account of his foreign travel. Minister Kupka votes with a replacement card 47. Kohajda Michael apologizes for the whole day - health reasons, Koten Radek from 9 o'clock - personal reasons, King Václav the whole day - working reasons, králíček Robert the whole day - working reasons, Krejza Karel the whole day - no reason given, Lacina Jan the whole day - foreign travel, Maříková Karla the whole day - working reasons, Michálek Jakub the whole day - foreign travel, Munzar Vojtěch the whole day - foreign travel, Nováková Nina within 10 o'clock - working reasons, Olšáková Eliška the whole day - medical reasons, Smetana Karel the whole day - working reasons. Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down, thank you. So once again: Smetana Karel all day - working reasons, Staněk Pavel all day - working reasons, Strýček Jiří all day - medical reasons, Šimek David all day - working reasons, Tesařík Antonín all day - medical reasons, Tureček Karel all day - medical reasons, Válková Helena within 10 hours - working reasons, Vondráček Radek all day - personal reasons, Vondrák Ivo all day - working reasons and Ženíšek Marek all day - foreign travel. The members of the government apologize: Fiala Petr all day - foreign trip, Bartoš Ivan all day - foreign trip, Baxa Martin all day - working reasons, Bek Mikuláš all day - working reasons, Černochová Jana's full day - working reasons. And Mrs - I'm sorry - Minister Černochová is present. [[Since 11.30 - working reasons.]] Yes, the Minister specifies his apology, apologies from 11.30 for business reasons. Dvořák Martin all day - personal reasons, Hladík Petr whole day - working reasons, Lipavskýý Jan whole day - medical reasons, Nekula Zdeněk whole day - working reasons, Síkela Jozef whole day - foreign trip, Stanjura Zbyněk whole day - personal reasons and Válek Vlastimil whole day - for working reasons. We should start today's meeting by discussing fixed points from the third reading block. This is paragraph 101, House press 332, amendment to the Railway Act; paragraph 99, House press 307, amendment to the Local Charges Act; Point 104, House press 347, of the Government amendment to the Act on the abolition of obsolete legislation; paragraph 105, House press 360, Government amendment to the Act on public auctions; paragraph 106, House press 361, Government amendment to the Act on public auctions - related. We would then, if necessary, continue by discussing fixed points from the Law block - first reading. This is paragraph 71, House press 241, amendment to the Civil Code; paragraph 83, House press 276, proposal for a constitutional law amending the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. Alternatively, after discussing these points, we would continue to discuss further points from the Act block - first reading, point 26 et seq. And now I ask whether there is an interest in the Members' speech to change the programme approved by the 65th meeting? I have here a written application from President Cogan - ano, the President withdraws. Now, therefore, with priority rights, Vice-President Bartošek, then President Schillerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-02-ps2021-065-07-000-000.u2	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Colleagues and colleagues, I am addressing you with one request - that we include the proposals of the Chamber of Deputies to lend or award state honours on the agenda today. That is, firstly, the inclusion on the agenda, and secondly, I ask for your support for this item to be put to the vote today as the first item in today's negotiations. It's based on a grémia agreement from Tuesday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-02-ps2021-065-07-000-000.u3	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Now with the priority right of President Schillerová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-02-ps2021-065-07-000-000.u4	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. On the basis of both the Grémia agreement and the discussion on the Organising Committee, I propose today to include this item as item 2 entitled: Proposal for amendments to the sitting order of Members in the Chamber of Deputies' Chamber of Deputies' Chamber of Deputies' Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-02-ps2021-065-07-000-000.u5	I now have Mr Kamal Farhan's application here. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-02-ps2021-065-07-000-000.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to read here a new point concerning the valorisation of payments for state insured persons. Yesterday we learned and read in eKLEP that automatic delay of valorisation of payments for state insured persons is considered by a year, which means that it would not have taken place in 2024, but would have been valid only from 2025. This has nothing to do with health care, it is one of the great chaos of the government of Petr Fiala, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-02-ps2021-065-07-000-000.u7	I apologize, Mr. Ambassador, for interrupting, please rest in the right side of the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-02-ps2021-065-07-000-000.u8	I'm sure you all remember how Petr Fiala's government defended the valorisation mechanism for payments for state insured persons. After she took 14 billion from Czech health care, after she reduced the payment in 2022 and did not count on both the valorisation mechanism and inflation, that is a disaster. We learned in February of this year, when Minister Stanjura performed here and said that the valorisation mechanism must be preserved, that it must be three years, that it will then be evaluated, that it is a short period of time, and behold, suddenly quietly inserted into the eKLEP, that it will be postponed. And what about Minister Válek, the Minister of Health, who launches balloons all the time? On Twitter, he wrote: "It is an oversight caused by a zealous pen of bureaucracy. " Oh, my proboha, it's not about health, it's about the chaos of ministries, the chaos of the Ministry of Health and Finance. The minister doesn't know how to put things into eKLEP? There's a shirt for that. The shirt is a piece of paper where everyone actually signs individually. First it's signed by the lowest clerk, then the senior clerk, then the head of the department, then the deputy, and then it goes to the minister. Of course, I don't have the shirt, but the shirt is kept in my opinion, if I remember correctly, ten years, so that when the SAO came, he could check who put it there, and it was an electronic trace. And the man is able to write that it was done by a zealous clerk's pen? A jealous clerk's pen will cut tens of billions here? Where are we in this state? [[Let's hear it for the left.]] What are we supposed to believe, anyway? We're supposed to trust Minister Válek, who says, "Nothing's going to change, nothing's going on, it's just zeal"? Or the finance minister who puts it in the system? We also heard that last year when it was payments for state insured persons. I just don't believe most of the things the Minister of Health says anymore. Just remember what the current drug situation looks like. Yes, some drugs were imported, but the last information we have is that 140,000 packs were imported, but that was five weeks ago. What happened in the next five weeks? What happened last week, week before last? What's going on? And remember -- and that was a big discussion, and now I'm warning you -- I don't want to say the word circles, but it's covered by the Security Information Service. This is the so-called ISIN, an information system for infectious diseases, when last year Minister Válek handed over vaccinations with sensitive data under the ISIN. ISIN doesn't have a legal anchor until today. And what did Secretary Válek here promise on the microphone? That by the end of 2022 - now we're 2023, just if you didn't know - that it would make sure it was normal. But in the meantime, he's actually meeting with the Security Information Service he's negotiating with, and no one likes it. The Office of Personal Data Protection doesn't like it either. And how are we supposed to take seriously the promises of a man who treats the sensitive data of millions of people like that and ultimately doesn't fulfill his promise? I consider what was at all inserted or considered scandalous, but scandalous in the context of Minister Stanjura's statement and in the context of Minister Válek's statement because they dement it, and then quietly put it in a private file. So for this reason, I'd like someone for the government to say that it's nonsense, not to blame the clerk or some keen pen, but to make it clear who put it in, who put it in, and who's considering it when the ministers said they didn't want it. [[Time!]] Therefore, Madam President, I will ask you to include it as the first item today in the Valorisation mechanism for payments for state insured people in general health insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-02-ps2021-065-07-000-000.u9	So a point, Mr. Ambassador, is the Valorisation mechanism for payments for state insured persons, and you suggested it, Mr. Ambassador, as the first item in today's meeting. Thank you. I'll read some more apologies. Vrána Petr apologizes throughout the day for working reasons. I wonder if anyone else is interested in a performance to change the approved 65th meeting? It's not like that. We would therefore now proceed to the vote on proposals to amend the agenda of the meeting, as read. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby. We will now vote on the Vice-President's proposal to include a new item, which is the Proposal for State Awards or Awards. I will call my colleagues from the lobby, and we would therefore proceed to the vote. Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 160, 142 Members and Members, for 142, against no one. The motion was accepted. And now we would vote on the inclusion of this point as the first point in today's negotiations. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 161, 142 Members and Members, for 141, against none. The motion was accepted. We are now voting on the proposal by President Schillerová, who proposes to include a new item in the proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies in the 9th parliamentary term. Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 162, registered as 142 Members and Members of Parliament, for 139, versus 1. The motion was accepted. And now we would vote on the solid inclusion of this point as item number 2 of today's negotiations. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 163, 142 Members and Members, for 138, against none. The motion was accepted. We will now vote on Mr Kamal Farhan's proposal, which proposes to include a new item called the Valorisation mechanism for payments for state insured persons. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour? Who's against it? Voting number 164, 144 Members of Parliament signed in for 69, versus 58. The proposal was rejected, so we will not vote on the solid inclusion of this point. We have dealt with all the proposals to amend the approved agenda, and I am now opening item 138, which is
