ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-003-144.u1	144. Government bill amending Act No. 582/1991 Coll., on the organisation and implementation of social security, as amended, Act No. 589/1992 Coll., on Social Security Insurance and Contribution to State Employment Policy, as amended, Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended, and Act No. 187/2006 Coll., on sickness insurance, as amended /house print 443/ - first reading Under the authority of the Government, the proposal will be made by Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka. I beg you, Minister, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-003-144.u2	Thank you. Good afternoon, Mr Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues. Allow me to make a proposal for Law No. 582/1991 Coll., on the organisation and implementation of social security, as amended, Act No. 589/1992 Coll., on Social Security Insurance and Contribution to State Employment Policy, as amended, and Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, and also Act No. 187/2006 Coll., on sickness insurance, as amended. It's House press number 443 and we're at first reading. The aim of this bill is, above all, to clarify or modify some of the non-compliant or surpassed provisions of the current social insurance legislation so that the wording of the laws is better suited to their purpose and thus more favorably served by the addressees of the law. In addition, the proposal also brings some more fundamental changes regarding the implementation of social insurance. The draft law does not bring any more substantial changes to social security benefits. Which specific changes to the organisation and implementation of social security are thus: establishing the possibility of submitting an application for a pension in electronic form, introducing an online application for a pension is linked to a change in European legislation and resulting from the regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on a single digital gateway. The possibility of making an online application is also introduced because of the ever-increasing requirements for e-government, as well as the preparedness for pandemic emergency situations and the like, where there is a mandatory restriction on physical contacts between persons. The establishment of an online pension application is linked to the regulation of the local jurisdiction of the district social security administration when writing a pension application in paper form. This form of lodging a pension application shall be maintained but the local jurisdiction attached to the applicant's residence shall be abolished. The pension application will therefore be possible for any district social security administration, which will contribute to the greater comfort of insured persons, i.e. clients. Furthermore, the change in pension periods from the so-called rolling month to the calendar month is regulated, the payment of pension periods for all pensioners is unified, regardless of which social security institution pays the benefit. Pensions will be paid in a uniform way for a calendar month, which will also be more understandable for pensioners. The pensions paid by the Czech Social Security Administration will be repaid not in advance within regular monthly periods, that is from maturity to maturity, for example from the 6th day of the calendar month to the 5th day of the immediately following calendar month, but for the current calendar month, that is from the 1st day of the calendar month to its last day. In this way, according to current legislation, for example, the pensions of members of the armed forces are paid. In this context, the payout dates are also narrowed from 13 dates to 5 dates and pay dates are concentrated for all pensioners up to the first half of the calendar month. So far, the last deadline for payment of the 24th day of the month has been applied to the Czech Social Security Administration. This change is in favour of pensioners, as many of them will receive a pension within the month before, and this corresponds to the technical possibilities of the Czech Social Security Administration. The transfer of payment to the current calendar month will also result in the provision of so-called remuneration payments for the period from 1 January to the date preceding the repayment date of the January instalment, which will mean the savings of public finances compared to the current situation. The amendment to the Social Security Insurance Act and the contribution to the state employment policy are adjusted here in particular: the adjustment of the premium discounts to which employers are entitled to employ specific groups of employees on a reduced period of time, according to previous interpretations. The lack of the last amendment to the periodic penalty payment is corrected, when the adjustment to the periodic penalty payments under civil law has been passed and the amendment to the periodic penalty payments under the payment scheme has been omitted. The payment of periodic penalty payments is proposed in a uniform manner in accordance with the rules of civil law, while the payment scheme is maintained as a sufficient advantage. [[17.10 hours]] Changes in the Pension Insurance Act: changes are only partial, in particular they respond to the flexibility of receiving parental allowance and the definition of self-employment, by abolishing the link to receiving this benefit, and this secondary activity will be considered to be one-off always care for a child under four years of age, regardless of whether or not the parental allowance is received. The procedure for the transfer of pension rights for the period prior to the death of the beneficiary shall be specified if the pension has not yet been paid to the beneficiary. The technical rules for the payment of pensions on account are also specified. Furthermore, amendments to the Health Insurance Act. The amendments proposed in the Health Insurance Act are mainly legislative refinements. Some changes are based on experience with requests to eliminate the hardness of the law, which was generally granted in practice, and therefore the regulation is taken directly into the law. For example, the provision of cash for maternity assistance is extended to cases where the mother is in temporary disability and receives sickness benefits from previous sickness insurance up to the time of taking up this allowance. As regards the effectiveness of the Act, it is proposed on 1 January 2024 with the exception of the provisions governing payments during the period of pensions. The effectiveness of these provisions is from 1 July 2025 or from... Czech Social Security Administration must have enough time for technical implementation. Furthermore, provisions introducing the possibility of lodging an application for an online pension. The effectiveness of these provisions is from 1 December 2023, i.e. from this year onwards. In order to comply with the deadline set in the European Union regulation on a single digital gateway, that is to say 12 December 2023. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-003-144.u3	I thank you, Minister, and we will need to change the rapporteur or the rapporteur for the first reading. I will call my colleagues from the lobby because Mrs Lenka Dražilová was to be the rapporteur, but she is excused, and for this reason, Mrs Jana Pastuchová is proposed here as rapporteur for the House Press 443. So I'll wait for my colleagues and colleagues from the lobby to come. I will repeat what we will be voting on - this is a change to the rapporteur for first reading, and that should be Mrs Jana Pastuchová. I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees to change the rapporteur for first reading? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 372, 147 Members and Members, for 120, against 1. The proposal has been approved. And I will ask the rapporteur for the first reading, Mrs Jana Pastuchová, to take the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-003-144.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I think the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs has explained this in detail. I will not repeat the fact that this is a technical amendment, but I would also like to speak on behalf of myself in the debate as a Member, Jana Pastuchová. So I will not repeat, the House Press, the government presented it on May 5, 2023, today is the first reading, all explained by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, and I will speak for myself in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-003-144.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I'm opening a general debate, and since no one's logged in, then I'll give you the floor. [[Voices from the diaper.]] Since I haven't seen the application anywhere, you've applied from the scene, but before that, the rapporteur has announced it, then I'll give you my word. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-003-144.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Let me just sum up what's really going on here. Like I said, it's a technical novel, it's really a matter of getting a pension online. There is a change in the pay-out period and some provisions of the law, which in practice proved unclear or difficult to interpret, are clarified in the case of sickness insurance. And then there's the extension of the provision of maternity cash when the mother is temporarily incapacity for maternity benefit and receives sick leave from previous sickness insurance. I would also like to mention why the YES movement first had a problem with this bill proposal, and I believe that the coalition will not trick us into believing that what it has taken out of the law proposed by the government will not be put there by some amendment. And I will explain what this is about, because originally in the proposal that I read or which was in eKLEP, it was removed that the abolition of the increase in the old-age pension for a full-time employment activity with its acquisition and the replacement of this benefit by a premium discount are really more or less bad changes that you put there. I will read here what it said: "It abolishes the increase in the old-age pension for gainful activities carried out in parallel to its acquisition in full and the replacement of this benefit by a premium discount. In Law No 589/92 Coll. it is proposed that the insured person who is entitled to full pension and reaches retirement age should not be newly obliged to pay pension insurance premiums.'; I beg you, and I will really be careful that, when we have released this law - or you would have voted for it anyway - there is no additional amendment to this House press. I just wanted to say it, and I'm gonna be really careful about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-003-144.u7	Thank you. The Minister has a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-003-144.u8	Thank you. In fact, I'll take the liberty of reacting immediately. First of all, assure the Member that there will certainly be no such deposit, because I have decided to remove this measure so that this measure is subsequently part of the pension reform, because the measure is clearly positive in favour of Czech old-age pensioners, those who are already entitled and receiving an old-age pension, but at the same time remain active on the labour market. And I, when I'm talking to seniors, they say they're very interested in making the current system that is not very motivational and which, on average, they retire when they work, then they increase only about some 70 to 80 crowns a month to have some far more motivation when they stay active on the labour market. And we made it clear that we would find some form of motivation. Either this is the way, that is to cancel the contribution, the 6.5%, the old-age pension premium, and let them immediately bonify the higher income, which they get because of the extra month paid in the payout, or go the way we adjust significantly, for example, the calculation of the pension valorisation at the moment when the person remains active and works. We will see both in the debate and in the occupational group on pension reform, what solution we will choose, but one thing is certain: we must appreciate more the pensioners who remain active, remain on the labour market, even if they are part-time, and are already entitled to have an old-age pension or to receive it. I think that we may agree that we are looking for a way to support this, to promote economic activity at this time, that this is an important step. It will not be part of this press, it will be part of the pension reform.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-003-144.u9	I thank you and Mrs Lucie Šafránková, who is now duly applied for. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-003-144.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me just say a brief opinion for the SPD, which supports the main principles of this proposal. [[17.20 hours]] For example, we welcome the fact that it will finally occur - and we have also talked about it several times - to introduce the possibility of applying for a pension by electronic means, while, of course, maintaining the right to an application for a pension in paper form. We consider this to be extremely important, as well as the right of pension recipients to withdraw their pension at branches of the Czech Post in cash. We also consider the introduction of the possibility of applying for a pension at any local branch of the Czech Social Security Administration regardless of the place of permanent residence of the applicant and the existing principle of local jurisdiction as a positive measure in terms of citizens' access to public administration agendas. Here we appeal to the management of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs as well as to the entire government to strengthen the workplace of the Czech Social Security Administration not only in Prague but also in other major cities within the Czech Republic in sufficient advance. This must be started immediately, because there is a clear expectation of the greatest strain of these requests, since there are actually hundreds of thousands of citizens who, while residing elsewhere, are going to handle official matters right here, at their actual place of residence. A similar appeal is also appropriate in the case of changes in pension pay dates, where it is transferred from a sliding to a calendar month from 1 July 2025. We also draw attention here to the possibility of early training of relevant employees, the need to prepare and test relevant electronic applications, etc., so that once again, as we are witnessing now, the branches of the Czech Social Security Administration will not be overwhelmed and disproportionately extended in pension payments compared to their legal limits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-003-144.u11	I thank you, Madame, and ask if anyone else is joining the debate? With a factual remark, Mr Milan Brázdil. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-003-144.u12	Thank you for the floor. Mr. Secretary, if you could just listen to a little thing now. People who quit their jobs take money for their jobs. He's retiring on the day of retiring, and I'm asking: he saved the pension a long time ago, he's already gathered it up somewhere. He actually has to go on at this point. I'm asking if it would be appropriate to get the money forward, actually, every pensioner to get the money forward for that month, not backwards. I don't know if you understand. In fact, if I go to work, I take money for what I did, and then I get paid. But he actually took the money out of it a long time ago, and I don't know if I explained it well, and the retired guy's actually taking a month's break, if I explained it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-003-144.u13	Thank you. The Minister would like to make a point of fact, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-003-144.u14	Thank you. If the standard practice is that this person is going to end his employment, and there is no exceptional situation that we have now in the last three months, and here I say that today we have roughly 9,000 pension applications after the legal deadline, and if the standard situation is, things are going to be settled on time, the person is going to ask him in advance which law allows him to do, so that's how it would be for the vast majority of them - it was that one month he was going to get paid, the next month he didn't get paid and he's already retired. I don't think it's such a big deal. And we already have a problem today, if we apply what you say, which happens to us in part of our clients, that the senior will die and doesn't get information to the Czech administration in time, the pension will still be paid subsequently, in case of payments to the account, and then - in a not completely pleasant situation, I have to say, for both parties - we are giving the pension back to the Czech administration in a difficult way and we are returning it back to the Czech administration. So I think that with your intention, we might create a slightly more sympathetic environment that the state is sending something forward, but for some of these people and their family members, we could create an even bigger problem than we have with some of them today, because it's not an isolated case, there are more cases where we have to recover back. [[♪ to ♪]] Unfortunately, it happens that it's paid into account, maybe one of the family has the right to pay by credit card, unfortunately, and then the money is even spent, then it's a big problem even to get it back.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-003-144.u15	Thank you, Minister. No one else is going to the general debate or to see any other application, in which case I am ending the general debate. I want to ask you, Minister and rapporteur, do you want to take the final words? Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-003-144.u16	Just for a little while. I am glad that the Minister has made it clear that he is not going to put it in this law, what I was talking about. I'm sure I'm in favour of working seniors supporting themselves in their work, but now we're gonna have to talk about when they're actually gonna retire and whether we're gonna have those 67 or 68 seniors who want to work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-06-13-ps2021-065-08-003-144.u17	Thank you. The Minister does not want the final word. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion of the Social Policy Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I don't see a suggestion like that. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. I am opening the vote and I ask who is in favour of the proposal being ordered to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a guarantee committee? Get him to push the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 373, 152 Members and Members, for proposal 124, against no one. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. I wonder if there are any other suggestions for the commandment of the committees? I don't see any such suggestions. In that case, thank you, and I am done discussing this point. I will read the apologies: today, at 17 o'clock for health reasons, Mr Jaroslav Dvořák apologizes, from 16.30 for work reasons, Mrs Věra Kovářová apologizes, from 17.30 for health reasons Mr Jan Volný, from 16-45 for work reasons Mr Marek Výborný apologies, for the whole working day, Mr Vladimír Zlínský apologises. Minister Martin Baxa, Minister Helena Langšádlová takes back her apology from 17.45, Minister Zdeněk Nekula apologizes from 15 hours for working reasons and from 17 hours for working reasons Minister Michal Šalomoun apologizes. I'm opening another item on today's approved program, and that's
