ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-000-000.u1	Madam Members, honourable Members, honourable Members and Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 63rd session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I warmly welcome you all here. To record our participation, I'm going to check you all out first, and I'm going to ask you all to sign up with your ID cards. I'm also asking you to tell me who the spare card was issued to. I announce that Mr Jaroslav Dvořák will vote with the replacement card number 15. Furthermore, I say that for 15 hours for reasons of work, Carbol Jiří from the entire meeting day - there is really a lot of noise here, I ask for the transfer of discussions to the lobby - for reasons of health, Exner Martin from the Beitl meeting day for reasons of health, Farhan Kamal from 14 hours for Ženíšek of work, Fialová Eva from 10.30 Novák for reasons of health, Foldyna Jaroslava from the whole meeting day for reasons of health, Vrána Petr from 14 hours for reasons of health, Jílková Marie from 11 hours for Vích of employment, Knechtová Lenka from 14 hours for Marek of health, Kohoutek Tomáš from the Potůčková meeting Lucie for reasons of foreign travel, Kubík From the Válková Helena Róbert to 15 hours for Michal of employment, Kovářová Vátková Věra from the whole Radovan Karel for Marek of employment, from the Kuchař 9 to 12.30 hours for reasons of employment, from the whole day of employment day. Members of the Government: Fiala Petr from the whole day of the meeting apologizes due to foreign travel, Balaš Vladimír within 15 hours for working reasons, Baxa Martin from 18.30 hours for working reasons, Bek Mikuláš from the whole day of the meeting for working reasons, Hladík Petr from 14 hours for working reasons, Kupka Martin from 11 hours for working reasons, Lipavskýý Jan from the whole day for working reasons and Šalomoun Michal from 12 hours for working reasons. This is how I settled my apology so far. I'm really gonna ask you to keep it down. I'll recap. Thank you. Today's meeting will begin with points from the third reading block in the following order: point 147, asylum; point 103, school law; point 106, electronic communication; point 114, protection of notifiers; point 115 - related; point 108, protection of competition, and then point 102, on Czech Television, and point 105, on association in political parties. For 13 hours we have fixed point 139, which is Mr Köppl's appeal, and no later than 13.45 hours of election points. Point 149 is a change in the composition of the institutions of the Chamber of Deputies and paragraph 121 is a proposal to appoint members of the GACR Supervisory Board, second round. I recall one more thing, namely that at 15 o'clock the 64th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies will be opened, and at 15-10 hours we will continue the suspended 60th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. That would be all for now. I have here an application with the priority right of my colleague Marek Výborný. President Marek Výborný on the proposal of the programme. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-000-000.u2	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Government, colleagues, colleagues, good morning, good morning. I have one proposal to amend the agenda that was discussed with representatives of all the MPs. It's a small thing. I ask that today as the first point in the block of third reading be discussed and voted by the House press 323, this is the repeal of Act 307/2000 Coll., on agricultural stock certificates and so on, yesterday discussed at second reading without amendment. We voted that the law would not be discussed by the committee, so we can vote today. Please place the first item in today's meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-000-000.u3	Thank you, the proposal is registered. Mr Milan Wenzl also requests any changes to the agenda. I will read an apology in the meantime: Mr Jan Hrnčíř apologizes at 13:00 for family reasons. Please, Ambassador, your five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-000-000.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, recently I have intersected the Prime Minister on the disposal of state property, namely Štiřín Castle, into the possession of another entity. The sale is then justified by the Minister of Foreign Affairs' alleged need for this property for the purpose of the state, when he decided completely intentionally, contrary to the establishment charter of the contribution organization of the Štiřín Castle, not to use its allocated capacity for the needs of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and State. Then why was the technical facilities of the hotel, a new kitchen that cost about CZK 18 million, a terrace that cost about CZK 5 million, expensive at the end of last year? On the other hand, I ask, how is the state's property currently secured, where is the furniture from the castle, where is the deposit of things that were taken from the castle, how is it secured by an arboretum, so that expensive trees and flowers don't get lost? Why were long-time employees released from the castle and replaced by a company that is three times more expensive? Will the hired company work with its own machine equipment, or will it be rented from the castle Štiřín? And if so, under what conditions? Although many of the current Members and Members were not in this House in 2017, it is possible to trace the House's press from this year. It is the House's press 666/3, part 1/2, where this House agreed to the transfer of the founding function of the contribution organization Štiřín castle to the Office of the Chamber of Deputies. Is the approval of this representative body merely a non-binding declaration, or has the position changed? And that's why I'm asking why. It is also rather strange that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs intends to transfer the castle Štiřín to the Office of State representation in property matters, which will first offer this property to other state authorities. The State Department can do the same thing. [[9.10 hours]] I'm still going back a little bit. In January 2020, the then Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Petříček, explicitly refused to transfer his ministry's establishment to another state body and said that he wanted to keep Štiřín. I understand that in three years, things could have changed, but questions are increasing rather than being answered. Perhaps this point of view is the answer to my interpellation to the Prime Minister's very general content. Since I have no other option to look up the reasons and forms of sale, as well as the reason for the reconstruction before the so-called sale, I propose to include this point as a verification of the state's management in the Štiřín Castle facility, as the first point after fixed points. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-000-000.u5	Thank you, i.e. the State's audit - is the name - in the castle facility. I'll make a note, thank you. And now another with an application to change the agenda is Mr Aleš Juchelka and then Mr Petr Sadovský will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, also your...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-000-000.u6	Thank you very much and I'll be very brief. Since yesterday there was the media that did not actually increase the parental contribution to the government coalition at their meeting, I would again appeal not only to the members of the government coalition, but to the entire Chamber of Deputies to approve, after all the points that we have here since June of last year as a carrier, and that is the increase in parental contribution. We propose this, of course, with the valorisation that my honourable colleague Olga Richterová, Mrs Olga Richterová, is so often talking about, and there is, of course, an increase of CZK 100,000. I'm just saying, we have this carrier in the Chamber of Deputies, let's just pull it out, make an agreement on some other parameters across the House, like 50, 60, 70 thousand, as proposed by different political entities in the House, and let's make a statement, because, as calculated, we would have to increase the parental contribution by CZK 97,000 from the point of view of inflation. So much money de facto caused inflation so that we could increase parenting, it is CZK 97,000. So I believe that, for example, it would be worth it to promote a pro-family policy. And the second argument is that we were born 8,000 less at this time of year. If I've calculated correctly, that's about 1.3 billion, which we're not actually going to pay out as part of a parent's contribution, so I think we could give it just to support, like, the new kids. I think it would be worth it to finally move on, because, as I say, since last June, we have had a House press that is dealing with raising the parental contribution. All you have to do is take it, vote it out, start talking about it, and I think we'll be on the right track, that we can get it over with by the start of the holidays, by July 1st, even here with this effect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-000-000.u7	I will also ask you to specify the printing number or the number of the point in question, if you refer to the proposal already submitted. If you come to me and we'll sort this out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-000-000.u8	Yes, thank you. Thank you for your indulgence.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-000-000.u9	Mr Petr Sadovský is now in office, Mr Tomáš Helebrant will be prepared. Please wait, I'll also reset your count, and please, your five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-000-000.u10	Hello, Madam President, fellow Members, I would like to ask you if we could include an item called Electronic Bracelets as the first item in today's negotiations. In recent days there has been information in the media that there are currently no electronic bracelets in operation or functional because we have declared a contract to an Israeli company that has not been able to supply us with a correct and timely amount of electronic bracelets. This means that at present, checks on convicted persons who are on probation or are under house arrest are carried out at random, which is completely inadequate. Of course, savings in the state budget could also be with this, because, of course, when a convicted man is at home on a bracelet, the amount is considerably lower than when he's sitting in a prison. In January, just 2020 the director of the Probation and Mediation Services informed that she had declared a contract with Supercom. House arrests are rapidly increasing, and the bracelets are basically running out. I know from the information that there should be a tender at the moment, but we have no information about it. Therefore, I would like this point to be included - once again - as the first point in this negotiations, and thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-000-000.u11	I thank you, i.e. the proposal for a new point with a proposal for a firm inclusion as the first point. And now there's just been a change, with priority rights, President Andrej Babiš will have a motion to change the show. I will then recapitulate the previous applications: Mr Tomáš Helebrant, Richard Brabec and Igor Hendrych. So I'll ask the Prime Minister. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-000-000.u12	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President. I would like to propose a new point that is very important, and this is the Reform of mental health care in the Czech Republic or mental care in the Czech Republic. On that occasion, I would like to say - and I think we all know - that unfortunately this government is not communicating with us, except for the exceptions. Yes, the only exception from my point of view is the Minister of Justice Blažek, who I wrote about sexual violence in December, about the deviant registry, about sexual violence on networks, we met repeatedly, and yesterday we met all of us, all the clubs, and it's settled. And that is why I am very glad that at least one government minister is willing to communicate with us. That the Prime Minister since the appointment was Prime Minister 17. 12. 2021 hasn't spoken to me once, everyone knows that, and it's no comment. Health has been a priority for us. During our reign, we increased our medical money by 229 billion, and two years of covid was hell. And the key thing for me was two things: the National Cancer Plan, it's nothing but Joe Biden, the American president whose son died of brain cancer, the so-called Moonshot of 2016. And the cancer, today I will not talk about it, nor about the prospectus, nor about what is happening here, and where there are those 15 billion I personally arranged with Ursula von den Leyen, ended where it ends, and 50 billion in the programme period 2021 to 2027, 50 billion for Czech health services we handled in Europe. Compared to what our predecessors had arranged from Europe for the period 2014 to 2020, it was a ridiculous 8.5 billion. So 50 billion. And I can still talk about React-EU. That would also be nice to learn sometimes how many of the 21 billion we won for everyone, even a small hospital where it ended, because there was drawdown in 2023, and in short, health care was a priority for us, we had investment plans there. [[9.20 hours]] And we have terrible luck that the Minister of Health - is not here, and I am sorry - suffers from various diseases. First, he suffers from anti-babishism, and his anti-babishism goes so far that the Brňák, who, thanks to the fact that Professor Svoboda went to America and learned in Boston what an oncological hospital is called Yellow Man, they came up with a prevention project. Here some doctors say: Prevention, what is prevention? I'm going to the gynecologist, not me, but some lady who's going to prevent, and there's somebody sitting there, some other lady who's got cancer, she doesn't have hair, and that's not a prevention where a really healthy person should be examined like that. žluťák came up with a real prevention project, a billion-dollar pavilion where a family comes in, kids play there, a husband's got some occupation, and a wife's getting tested, and it's great. It's working today, and I wanted to build up the 15 billion to the Pražák people -- who hate me, but I took the subway this morning, and no one spit on me and nobody yelled at me -- so maybe it's getting better, the most modern cancer hospital in the world! [[In an elevated voice.]] Best, $8 billion. Yeah, but that's not what they wanted. Dear pražák, you who report for prevention to Brno in Yellow, do you know what the term is now? November! November. And the Minister of Health, who suffers from the disease, besides being addicted to card games, and I don't want to develop it very much, and I think that everyone where he worked in Brno is happy that he became a minister, but we're unhappy about it, which is why the anti-Babishism is so great that he criticized the billion-dollar prevention pavilion we fought for, and he said it was stupid, something like that - but that's what the hospital wanted! By the way, when I talk about Brno, there when I was visiting the hospital, the chief told me that I was talking about helping them with Bohunice's obstetrics. And I pushed Mrs. Schillerová through it because I wanted to convince bureaucrats, officials at the Department of Health to do something - and now I don't want to talk about who's picking projects there and why the state isn't projecting at all, once there was a Health Project, and today it's good for those privates - so Mrs. Schillerová and I pushed through the hospital. I'm curious. There were 13 billion different projects, the burning pavilion of Royal Vinohrady, the minister editing tapes, yes, at the Apolinař, that's our work too. And I'm wondering if they're gonna build the state-of-the-art obstetrics at Apolina where all the premieres were born... So not the Prime Minister, but their partners or wives - and they promised, they would do nothing. My children and granddaughters were born in Neratovice, so I have no conflict of interest, but I fought for the project. But we don't really know what's going on in health care. So, oncology, I could talk about this for a long time. I want to talk psychiatric today. Last month, I was dealing with a nine-year-old girl. He wrote me one squeak that he hates me, but he's got a kid problem, 11 years old, a kid. Do you know what the term for an emergency or an emergency of pediatric psychiatry is when you make a phone call? Three months! [[In an elevated voice.]] Three months. They needed help right away. And this is a project that we started and which, of course, the Minister hates because the strategy is: everything that was behind Babiš, even if it was fine, needs to be destroyed. I'm here because I read an article here: "The state is about to change, it wants more psychiatry beds, capacity is close to limit." Here are two concepts. Unfortunately, when someone has mental problems, they take him to Bohnice, they stitch him in, they lock him up, and he's lost. And we didn't want that. And I'm an expert on her, and I've learned all that. We wanted outpatient psychiatric care. The Minister would also need one - anti-babishism, addiction to card games and so on - perhaps he could try it out. Here is an article: "The Ministry of Health has put out psychiatry and plans to support the construction of hundreds of new beds in hospitals and the increase in the number of doctors" - so this is the old concept, the old concept, and the availability of psychiatric care has deteriorated considerably - yes, we know - and that is why we have dealt with it. I'm gonna read you a statement here, that's an independent opinion, and that's, that's, that's people who are really brave, because applying to projects under Babišův's government, that's what it takes really bravery to do. So it is called the Opinion of Care Users on the continuation of the reform of mental health care and on other issues concerning the mental health care system in the Czech Republic. "The reform of mental health care and its individual projects are not the fruits of deep hatred between politicians, but the steps undertaken by professionals and professionals needed for a dignified life of people with experience of mental illness in the Czech Republic." Yes, we've always done that. We've always relied on experts, experts, no teammates, no friends. It says here: "As representatives of people with experience in mental illness, we would like to make a public statement on the current state of mental health care in the Czech Republic and the importance of continuing the mental health reform project. " Well, that's what we started, and it got worse behind the covid. And why is it getting worse worldwide? Why are there so many young people's suicides? Yeah, it's been a while. Some time on the network, some time of gambling, where the government wants to lower taxes even to repay its sponsors. So it was professional. Mental health care, not only psychiatric but also psychosocial, has been neglected in the Czech Republic for decades and is still significantly underfunded. Yes, that's right. "The institutional care that has been the prevailing model and the frequent lack of psychosocial support for people with mental illness have a significant impact on people's lives from experience with mental illness, including serious cases of human rights violations, as well as daily housing problems, application on the labour market, completion of studies, economic situation and opportunities for participation in normal life, to which all citizens of the Czech Republic have the right. As part of the mental health reform project, we managed to start" - yes, in our government - "very important changes for us, such as the process of deinstitutionalization of new care, new types of care for people with severe mental illness in mental health centres" - yes, we started to build this - "which has provenly reduced rehospitalization and the number of nursing days in hospital psychiatric facilities. We see the emergence of mental health centres as an important step towards expanding community and multidisciplinary care in the Czech Republic, to which people should be entitled from experience with mental illness. [[9.30 hours]] This claim is enshrined in the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which was ratified by the Czech Republic in October 2009. The mental health centre represents one of the modern and quality forms of services in the care of people with mental illness" - yes, treat people at home, not close, stitch and again: "This is a British model. This type of care, unlike 12-bed rooms in large hospitals to the 21st century, certainly belongs. Professionals and professionals, including PR consultants and consultants, expert evaluation of their effectiveness and several years of work, are behind individual reform projects including the project to support the establishment of the Mental Health Center I to III, so we have a statement from the Minister of Health in Deník N" - this is a diary, which is said to be some oligarch who collected signatures against Babiš in the presidential campaign. I met a journalist here yesterday, that's the independent diary. But "it's interesting what he said 1. 3. 2023, for example, to the Mental Health Center - we quote the Minister: I am in a position to deal with something that arose as a fruit of the sincere, deep hatred of Prime Minister Babiš and Minister Maláčová." Unbelievable. This guy's really sick, he needs that center urgently. What's with the Minister's statement? What's Little Maláčová got to do with it? Nothing at all. This is the expression of the minister who destroys Czech health care. "It seems, says the Minister, at least inappropriate" - do you understand? That is what the brave writers who risk the hatred of the Minister say, "the threat to the further existence of existing ones in the centers and the emergence of new ones, which are still needed in many places in the Czech Republic, to make this service fairly accessible to as many people as possible with mental health problems. [[tho]] We would also like to extend this model of care to other groups of people with experience in mental illness, including children." Yes, children, it's incredible how these diseases are in children right now. The way professionals and professionals tried to do it in the New Services project. We also welcome the emergence of ambulances with extended care, which are smaller multidisciplinary teams. These ambulances can significantly support people with experience in mental illness who need more intensive outpatient care and at the same time do not need care at the Mental Health Centres. We do not deny the importance of the existence of bed psychiatric facilities. Yes, we know that there is no doubt a need for certain stages of mental illness. However, it is still essential for us to make a continuous assessment of the quality of care and respect for human rights. As part of the mental health care reform, psychiatric hospitals have been pressured to improve the quality of care, especially on respect for the human rights of their patients, as the Convention brings them. Psychiatric hospitals have been evaluated using the World Health Organization Quality Rights Tool Kit. The findings of this evaluation have led to intense pressure on psychiatric hospitals to educate workers in the field of human rights and to ensure that these rights of people experienced in mental illness are respected and applied in hospitals and hospitals. We are aware of this" - this is still written by the organization or by the group - "that some psychiatric hospitals fulfill the convention better than others, yet we welcome the fact to reduce the number of beds of follow-up care in individual psychiatric hospitals. This reduction could only be due to the entry of new services of the type of centres into the system. This reduced the number of long-term hospitalized patients, which was one of the basic principles of reform." Yes, and the Minister here is planning a capacity increase because he's not continuing the bed reduction and home care project at the centers. "The reform also led to the legalization of acute care in psychiatric hospitals and the adjustment of its public health insurance funding, which enabled increased care for people in an acute stage of mental illness." I don't know if you know what it is - the little girl I helped for nine years, she washed her hands for two hours and said she was dirty all the time. The parents who've been there know what I'm talking about, but the minister doesn't give a shit. "In line with the strategy of psychiatric care reform, modern trends in mental health care, the National Action Plan on Mental Health 2020 to 2030" - developed by our government - "and the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities welcome the possibility of moving the centre of gravity of care towards and outside the community." That's what the experts write. "We believe that, thanks to the influence of many people experienced in mental illness in individual projects, their participation in decision-making at all levels has proved necessary and very necessary. As people with experience with mental illness, we see very positively the fact that we can openly express through the media the opinion of the Minister of Health on the reform of mental health care presented in Journal N. This fact has certainly been contributed by the Destigmatisation project, during which two thousand people with experience with mental illness have become familiar with the principles of recovery, authorisation and, among other things, the issue of human rights. This subsequently led to their clear emancipation and the acquisition of competences in the defence of their rights. People with experience with mental illness stop being patients or clients. They are gradually becoming partners of professionals, which is a great success from our point of view of reform projects, but also the work of nonprofit organizations involved, including those associating users and care users. We see the reform of mental health care as a process that gradually changes the perception of the issue of mental health as something marginal to an issue which certainly deserves adequate attention from the whole of society." Yes, people keep turning to me, two things: cancer, mental health, unfortunately. And I'm trying to help, except here the Minister is tearing down things that are for people. In addition, these experts say: "The results of the first phase of the reform that we have introduced are considered positive. Thanks to this stage of reform, the process of so much needed changes in the mental health care system has been started. It is not the fault of those who participated in the first phase of the reform, experts, users, family members and others" - let someone tell me when we were in the government, how many experts, members of the movement were there: neither, except Brabec, ministers, nor anything, only then came the government, talked about agrofertization, so those good officials who tried, and now the psychopath from the European Parliament even blames people on the state budget at the Ministry of Finance that they can't make a budget, that I turned aside a little - so "it's not their fault. [[With laughter.]] In our opinion, the current management of the Ministry of Health has not used the experience, knowledge and skills of those involved in the reform." Well, they could use it when the minister's always playing something and then screaming and then taking pictures, and that's it. "The governing bodies of the first phase of reform. The Executive Committee on the Implementation of the Psychiatric Care Reform Strategy and the Expert Board on the Expert Guarantee of the Implementation of the Psychiatric Care Reform Strategy were neither preserved nor transformed into another governing body." Well, he just ruined it, 'cause Babiš. Normally a disease. "The Executive Committee and the Expert Board have ceased to function with the completion of the first phase of the mental health reform project. As a very time-consuming process, we see the process of abolishing the Mental Health Council" - yes, I chaired it - "which did not meet for more than a year at all." We know this government doesn't do anything, and then it's fine. I don't know what they've been there, 500 days, last time I counted it, or 470. "In the Department for Mental Health Care Reform at the Ministry of Health, it was transformed into a Department of Systemic Reforms, which led to a practical reduction in the capacity of employees who should have dealt with the development of the mental health care system. We are aware" - this is still written by the experts - "the weaknesses of the goals achieved, and we therefore believe that the reform of mental health care must continue comprehensively. If this does not happen, only then will the funds invested in the first stage of the reform be squandered. [[9.40 hours]] New services and other projects are not yet fully anchored in the mainstream mental health care system, so we have a legitimate concern about a slow return to baseline. The result would be a return to large institutions, a reduced possibility of participation of users and users of care to decide on the development of the system, inaccessible community care and still neglected issues of care for the mental health of children." It's a real problem. "We therefore call on the policies responsible for the functioning of the mental health care system to ensure, with all responsibility, the continuation of the reform of mental health care. We stand by the fact that the government of the Czech Republic and other public institutions should fulfil their obligations." Well, we don't know what that is right now, because this government hasn't evaluated its government's programming statement yet. I was on vacation when I came back, watching pro-government Czech TV, and it feels like this coalition is actually going to the election because they're dealing with pensions - five different opinions - and they're dealing with parental contributions. It doesn't seem abnormal to anyone that everyone is expressing parental contribution plus, so they actually act like they're before the election. [[unintelligible]] They won the election with anti-Babish, they don't have a program. Nobody evaluated the government's programming statement. [[With laughter.]] So it's normally a travesty and it's incredible, but of course pro-government media at the head of the Czech Television are taking it. That's cool, isn't it? Those are their fans. These experts finally say representatives of people with experience in mental illness at the National Mental Health Council and with the support of members of the platform of organizations of people with experience in mental illness. That's the position. I know something about it, the problem that parents have with children, but also with family members. No one here has ever done any analysis of the disease at all. Yesterday we talked to Minister Blažek about an autistic child, so we have 200,000 people in Bohemia with autism, 100,000 schizophrenics, bipolars, Aspergerův syndrome, multiple sclerosis, all of this. And you know who's dealing with it and who's starting the nonprofits? Parents, such as Behind Glass. I'm not gonna say that name because he's gonna get a sticker again. And these parents, who, for example, have autistic children, fight among themselves. And you know why? Because there's no money. We tried, this government isn't even trying. So instead of someone counting... Do you remember Klokánek? Big debate, then the President and Maláčová and so on. Nobody counted the need. I recently visited a center within the foundation. Imagine you have an autistic child, you take care of that child, I don't know, 20 years, and you don't give it anymore, you need to rest and you're interested in such a device. There are 9 beds per 180 patients in Prague for people with autism, interested. And how difficult it is! Most of the time, there's more staff than the patients, but no one's done that. The expert - I say it ironically - who told me in court that I should have taken care of my son! Head of impertinence! He doesn't understand what's going on. Who doesn't know what schizophrenia is, can't understand, and other things. But this state doesn't care, nobody does. That someone would do the math and say... Yes, Dušek, the Department of Health has statistics that need to be done, but nothing, nothing's going on. And it's bad luck that the Health Minister is the one who's there. Now I want to read the opinion de facto for our government, for being in the chair of the Commission for Reform, what it was and how it all started, about the fact that psychiatric care in the Czech Republic has long not met European standards, and the idea of effective and affordable care has been discussed many years before I became Minister of Finance or Prime Minister, despite the fact that we have the most modern medicines and therapeutic methods and professionally well prepared professionals. In addition to the overall underfinancing of this care sector and often very inadequate material technical background, the problem was the lack of development of outpatient, field and stationary services and the absence of comprehensive support for people with mental illness, which would enable them to return to normal life and maintain quality of life at the level of the disease. Mental illness sufferers have often had to deal with little available and fragmented care with the centre of gravity in large, quite dilapidated hospitals without the possibility of support in their own environment, at a time when the frequency of mental illness continues to increase. Mental illness affects every fifth of us, every fifth! He's already a serious social problem. Yes, that's a big problem. And how many people who are mentally ill run among us and do not even know that they are sick? And the company doesn't know either. Moreover, the stories of specific people who came to me in the form of a letter or e-mail clearly showed that the reform of this part of health care should have started a long time ago. Yes, paradoxically, it started with a mistress who was unlucky to have been on duty at the SAO when they brought my son there, and who worked all this, so they destroyed her because she was from Babiš. She got fired. Nevertheless, he continues to do his job and helps. Yes, it should have started a long time ago. Our government has put a plan to improve this situation in the government's programming statement. Yes, we were the government that had the government's programming statement, which we evaluated. And even though covid came and we had minus GDP of 2020, we never changed the programming statement, and 80 percent of us did. So we had it in the programming statement and we started to implement without delay the process of changes defined by the so-called Strategy for the Reform of Psychiatric Care, a document drawn up by professionals in the field, approved by the Minister of Health and based on good professional practice and functional models of care abroad. We used financial support from the European Union to pilot and process changes, about CZK 3 billion, but from the outset we created funding mechanisms from national sources for all new services so that our work will not disappear after the end of the so-called programming period, i.e. the exhaustion of money from Europe. The Ministry of Health, which was responsible for the whole process, was employed by a team of experts and since 2017, the implementation of the reform project began. What did our government do? As part of the increased quality of care for seriously mentally ill patients, a completely new form of care was introduced in the Czech Republic, the so-called Mental Health Center, which the Minister questions because Babiš! It is a health-social multidisciplinary team - it is, in one team works a psychiatrist, psychologist, sister, social worker and so on - which is mobile and provides intensive and comprehensive support to patients in their natural environment. Yes, when something's going on, my parents are desperate, they're calling somewhere, but these teams are mobile. By 2021, we created thirty such teams and set up their funding from public health insurance. Similar teams have successfully been tested in children, people with dementia or people with addiction problems. [[9.50 hours]] Another new concept is so-called ambulance with extended care, which, in contrast to normal ambulances, uses the expertise of psychiatric nurses and close cooperation between psychiatrists and psychologists, thereby increasing the effectiveness of patient care and its availability. Well, see if you can get a psychiatrist or a psychologist today, if you've got as long as you're waiting. A year? And if you're lucky enough to get a deadline, then another - when? The model of care that we wanted to introduce and also started to implement was inspired especially by Great Britain and during that short period in the Czech Republic proved efficiency in reducing and reducing the number of hospitalizations. All right, you hear me! Yes, not to lock up in the Bohnice, stitch, let, not to have fun, not to care, but to help people, preferably in their home. That's the project. The increase in the work of psychiatrists and psychologists in the outpatient sector has also contributed to increasing the availability of care, which has been achieved despite the significant personnel crisis in health care not only in the Czech Republic but everywhere in Europe. The availability of care also concerns pediatric psychiatry - yes, a big problem - where we managed to increase the remuneration from public health insurance in the first place and thus increase the attractiveness of this expertise for young doctors. Another objective of the reform was to reduce long-term hospitalization in psychiatric hospitals and, on the contrary, to strengthen acute bed care. Here we managed to reduce the number of long-term hospitalized patients between 2018 and 2021 by up to 30 percent and, on the contrary, increased acute psychiatric beds by more than 600. In addition, psychiatric hospitals worked to improve the quality of care in terms of individualisation and the focus on respect for human rights. The Minister is doing absolutely nothing right now, and he's going in a completely different direction, because that article I just read, it's really hell. I will no longer list everything that has been worked on in reform, but I must mention one crucial thing. Effective care for mental health goes far beyond the competence of the Ministry of Health and requires active cooperation of a number of actors, in addition to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, it is for example the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, the Ministry of Justice, regional self-government and many others. We managed to bring reform to the government level and take all the necessary actors for cooperation in the form of the Mental Health Council. We are also aware that such a comprehensive change process cannot be achieved in one parliamentary term. England has continued its reform for 20 years, and partial changes are ongoing. That is why we have created and approved the National Action Plan for Mental Health for 2020 to 2030. If someone's been saying that our government or our movement doesn't have long-term visions to deal with here, then of course we do. We do! By the way, innovation strategies, National Investment Plan, psychiatric care reform and so on. The National Action Plan was by 2030 and we planned concrete steps for the first three years of its implementation, including its financial collateral. And the most important thing about the whole process? From my point of view, it was the fact that all negotiations, planning and realization were people with experience with mental illness, so that it would not happen that we would plan a system that would not suit our users. It was experts. How about now? In such a socially beneficial process, in which hundreds of experts, representatives of resorts or organizations and other actors participated, whose continuation was carefully planned and prepared, I had no idea that one person could not only slow the process down or stop it, but even question it. And Minister Válek is doing well because he has the disease, the anti-grandmother, really. And I'd help him in rehab if he went to the center, so I'd be there to help the psychiatrist. I just want to believe that he does not realise the serious consequences - well, he doesn't care - which he will cause, and that by calling into question everything that has been achieved in the reform, he actually expresses his distrust of the professional competence of all the actors mentioned above - by abolishing the Council of the Government for Mental Health. I, too, presided over the board. I have presided over various councils. I'm always fascinated when the Prime Minister talks about some covid being behind them. On December 17, 2021, when we rolled up the red carpet and I waited with the flowers - there is no Mrs. Langšádlová, there was still Mrs. Hubáčková, I think Mrs. Černochová got a flower from me - so even this morning there was advice against covid. [[Named nods.]] The Prime Minister had no covid. He lost an omicron and the burden of Czech health was zero. But he's still talking about it. Well, the board's been canceled. The Prime Minister is kicking it all apart. I think he should fire this Minister of Health immediately, because he's doing so much damage here, it's going to be a complete disaster. So the minister canceled the board, replaced it with a similar body at the Ministry of Health, and abolished the separate departments and the governing bodies of reform changes. In fact, not only did he prevent the reform from being carried out at all in the resort, and he clearly signals how important the agenda for the Ministry of Health is now. He just doesn't give a shit. He doesn't give a damn. As long as he's got the job. Unbelievable! Health - when we had the Effective Diseases Conference, he was there - perhaps he got off - the Minister of Finance was there and asked him if health was a priority for this government, and he said he didn't. So I guess the resorts are all about who fights. Madam Secretary Černochová - I see her here - she fights great. She won 2 per cent. GDP is rising, inflation is rising. Stanjura is happy, he has money, he doesn't pay people back, neither does the secretary. I don't know what you're going to have if you have 2% of GDP there next year, so I'm guessing 170 billion, 160? So, Madam Secretary, she's handy. It's just a shame we don't have a good Minister of Health and that this government doesn't realize that health comes first. Dear fellow citizens, mental health care is very important to us. Personally, I do it, I do it within the foundation, I visit the centers. It's not easy. Believe me, with us - I always think about those parents - up to 4,000 children are born each year with disabilities and so on and parents expect politicians to do something for them. But we're out of luck. I don't understand why someone else didn't take the resort. And the minister, instead, even the conflict of interest he has from Brno, he fights against everything that was behind Babiš, so that's a certain... I don't know, I'm gonna ask some psychiatrists if it's some kind of disease and how it can be treated, the anti-babishism. So my proposal is: I propose that we discuss the mental health care point in the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-000-000.u13	Thank you. The point has been noted. Mr Jakub Michálek, President of the Parliamentary Club, came forward with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-000-000.u14	Thank you for the floor. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to comment on the previous speech, because it is, of course, a legitimate and important debate. The subject is important, I completely agree with that, and it is perfectly normal that the opposition is criticising the government, and it is good in democracy. However, even this criticism, which I would like to ask, should take a certain cultivated form, and I think that the use of some comparisons in fellow Members to mental illness is already something that is somewhat beyond the threshold. And it wasn't unique, it was at least five times in that speech. I wanted to ask, it really is wrong to say that political opponents are mentally ill or that they are psychopaths or some similar way of expressing themselves, because it is insensitive to people who really have this mental illness, and it can, of course, raise doubts as to whether we really feel what these people are experiencing, and it can, of course, also reduce the credibility of our political actions in this area. [[10.00 hours]] It is important to note that statements about health diagnoses about people without having the necessary medical expertise and carrying out any examinations are unethical, and it would not be right for us to perform in this way on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. I wanted to ask if we could go back to a decent form of expression and ask the President if they could be consulted on how to hold the debate in a cultivated form so that such use of insulting comparisons does not occur. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-000-000.u15	Thank you, registered. At the same time, I would like to point out that we are still at the point of changing the agenda. Whoever is still enrolled is Mr Igor Hendrych. Please, you can come up with your proposal. Then, Mr Julius Špičák was the last to be logged in. Please, Ambassador, your five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-000-000.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have today's proposal to include a point under the title Reduction of the number of convicts in the execution of the sentence in the Czech Republic. It is a well-known fact that the Czech Republic is facing several serious problems in this area. One of them is an overall high number, when prison capacity is basically no longer enough. That's part of the problem. The second part of the problem is that, in terms of population, we are among the top people in the European Union and, in general, throughout Europe. The last fact is that we have a relatively high relapse. I am pleased that the Government of the Czech Republic has theoretically paid attention to this issue in its government statement, even in the revised recent period, but I deliberately recall - theoretically, because I do not see any concrete measures or concrete outcomes in the sense that this issue is being dealt with in any way. I noticed that some things were happening, but rather as I said from the other hand. I know that on April 24, a round table is planned for this issue, where many experts are invited to this area. I know most of them, and I am sorry that in this matter, government coalitions do not communicate with the opposition, or communicate with the parliamentary authorities that are set up on this issue, that is, a subcommittee on prisons and subcommittee on socially excluded localities and the inclusion of people after the execution of the sentence. Cooperation with these institutions is completely ignored, and basically, how this issue is dealt with, we get mediated and, as I said, secondhand. I would like to put it a little bit like the way it approached until recently - and to a large extent it is now - a government coalition on the solution to pension reform. Also, these things are simply being handled inside the coalition, and the opposition is not involved in these negotiations at all, which I think is a shame and a mistake. If it weren't, I wouldn't be standing here today, and I wouldn't want this item to be officially included in the House's agenda. That's all for me. Technically, I would like this item to be placed as the second item in today's negotiations. Thank you for your attention and any support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-04-19-ps2021-063-04-000-000.u17	Thank you, i.e. the proposal for a new item has been registered and we still have the last person to sign up for changes to the agenda, namely Mr Julius Špičák. Anyway, I don't see him in the hall, so the application's failing. We have therefore dealt with the proposals made. We'll take the vote in a moment. I will rejoin and summon colleagues and colleagues from the lobby. I'm gonna read an apology. Minister Vlastimil Válek apologizes until 11.30 hours for work reasons. We will now vote on the proposals to amend the agenda in the order that has been put forward. Before the numbers settle, let me remind you what the first vote will be about. The first vote is on item 113, House press 323. [[Checkout request.]] Cards? I'm checking everyone out. Please sign up with all your voting cards. Let me remind you once again, you have to sign up again. We will vote on the inclusion of paragraph 113, House press 323, as the first item of today's negotiations. This proposal was made by President Marek Výborný. The numbers are piling up. Initiating vote. Who is number 113 as the first point for this proposal? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 89, 150 votes were cast, for 150, against 0. This proposal has been approved. Furthermore, Mr Milan Wenzl has proposed a new point to examine the state's management of the castle Štiřín. First, we will vote on this proposal for a new point. Who is in favour of this proposal? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 90, 155 votes cast, for 73, against 43. The motion was not approved. Mr Aleš Juchelka also made a proposal for the inclusion of paragraph 69, press 234, the Act on State Social Support after all the fixed points. I've started the vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 91, 162 votes cast, for 75, against 21. This proposal was also rejected. Mr Petr Sadovský also made a proposal for a new item of the Electronic Bracelet. I've started the vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 92, 162 votes cast, for 74, against 34. The motion was not accepted. In addition, Mr Andrej Babiš proposed a new point of the Reform of Mental Health Care in the Czech Republic. I've started the vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 93, 162 votes cast, for 75, against 53. This proposal has not been adopted. As the last one, Mr Igor Hendrych also presented a proposal for a new point, reducing the number of convicted persons in the execution of the sentence. I've started the vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? Let him push the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 94, 163 votes cast, for 73, against 24. Nor has this proposal been adopted. We have thus dealt with all the proposals put forward by the voter. [[10.10 hours]] We can proceed to the first point in today's negotiations, and that is paragraph 113, which I am now opening. It's about
