ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u1	1. Discussion of the proposal to express distrust to the Government of the Czech Republic The 59 Members have exercised their right and, under Section 84 of Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, has filed a motion for distrust to the Government. I ask that the plaintiff's representative, President Alena Schillerová, be the first to take the floor, and I ask you, colleagues and colleagues, to be quiet so that we can hear the plaintiff. Or move your conversations to the foyer... Once again, colleagues and colleagues, I ask for peace of mind! Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u2	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. The YES movement before the House today presents a motion for distrust to the government. Petr Fiala's government. The reasons are extremely urgent and far beyond the notorious flaws of the cabinet of Petr Fiala, such as slowness, indecision, inability to lead the country out of crisis, health chaos, chronic lack of important medicines, tolerance of corruption, or inflationary spirals by raising taxes. The year of your government has brought countless evidence that Petr Fiala's government is not only incapable of leading our country out of the crisis, but is making this crisis worse by its actions, and it is also using it to enforce its side interests, but even more dangerous. While Czech households and companies fall into red numbers because they have to deal with the highest price of electricity and gas between OECD countries, their real incomes have fallen by 10 percent year on year, people have been unprecedentedly poor and historically reduced their consumption, this economic armageddon is accompanied by the absolutely highest debt of future generations in our country's history. Indebtedness is completely incomprehensible because it occurs in the current tax ruins of our citizens through record VAT collections, the collection of which follows directly in proportion the outrageous expensiveness of everything that one looks at.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u3	Yes, there's still noise. I would like to ask my colleagues who deal with anything bilaterally or simply have fun with each other, especially now in the left side of the hall, to move to the foyer so I don't have to name it. But, of course, this is true for everyone, so that the President may continue to speak. Please keep it down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u4	Thank you. Not only is the government trying to hide the pitiful results from the public accounting tricks that threaten the legitimacy of the Czech Republic not only with international institutions, but also its reputation with creditors, so this challenging period is used by the government to try to limit freedom of speech. More specifically, to establish censorship, to dominate public Czech television and to place a distrustable figure associated with corruption affairs in the position of Minister of the Environment. [[10.10 hours]] And now I want to talk about at least 13 serious reasons why we are suggesting that this government be distrusted. It is typical that these 13 sins were committed by the Cabinet of Petr Fiala during the last 13 months of his activity. I will now read them one by one, and then I will look into them in more detail. First, historically the largest increase in debt and record spending of the state. Secondly, the optical improvement of the state budget deficit and not the exhaustion of CZK 54 billion from the European Union. Thirdly, the loss of income from the EET and the promotion of the grey economy. Fourthly, raising taxes and promoting gambling. Fifthly, the greatest poverty from OECD countries in the history of the Czech Republic. Sixth, most expensive electricity and gas in the EU through purchasing power. Seven, insufficient and slow help to companies. Eight o'clock, social peace breach. Nine, chaos in health care and inability to provide enough medicine. Ten, trying to censor information in public space. Eleventh time, trying to control Czech TV. In the 12th, unsolved and most importantly unsolved corruption cases of government parties. For the 13th, unused Presidency in the Council of the European Union. Now, first things first and in detail. First, historically the largest increase in debt and record spending of the state. Despite the election rhetoric of the five-calice parties, there is an unprecedented increase in debt. I am talking about the fresh figures of the Ministry of Finance, which was presented by the government itself at the beginning of January, and cannot question a decimal in them. In the election, you were enchanted with budgetary responsibility, but in fact, you increased your government debt by CZK 429 billion in 12 months of office. This is the biggest increase in debt in the history of the Czech Republic. Even during the medical crisis when the economy was closed, we did not have such a dramatic increase in debt. Each Čech owes CZK 41,000 extra thanks to the budgetaryly responsible ODS for 12 months to Minister Stanjury. You intend to continue at a similar pace next year. So, as you say in your strategy, the Ministry of Finance's strategy, at the end of 2023, you owe us 725 billion crowns. Of course, we are well aware that the state budget has structural problems that need to be addressed urgently. But it is necessary to clearly draw attention to the contradiction between the ODS rhetoric of 100 billion crowns of savings per year and balanced budgets by the end of the parliamentary term and real results and figures. The contradiction is so vast that I am not surprised that your main concern is the adjustment of the marketing crap you wrote to the government's programming statement and with which the SPOLU won the election. It is none other than the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura, who objectively indebts the Czech Republic at the fastest pace in its history. While Andrej Babiš and I had surplus budgets before the pandemic broke out, so far you're just talking about savings, and the state budget is also cheerfully swell. The first budget of the government of Petr Fiala for 2022 included expenses of CZK 1 893,2 billion. In the amended budget for 2022, expenditure already exceeds CZK 2 trillion. The budget for 2023 already contains CZK 2 223 billion. This is an increase in spending of CZK 330 billion. Where's the alleged investigation effort? There's no attempt to investigate. The reason for these catastrophic figures, for example, is systematically a completely flawed setting of the energy ceiling, which is why the state budget must bear the burden of spending that could and should have been incurred by energy companies. A separate chapter is a completely ineffective and incompetent finance minister who has not been able to initiate any savings, for example in the area of efficiency of state administration, operating savings, digitalisation or more efficient public spending. Secondly, the optical improvement of the state budget deficit and not the exhaustion of CZK 54 billion from the European Union. Because you can't even remotely manage your empty promises, you're helping yourself with accounting tricks. In order not to have a deficit of 500 billion in 2023, you forgot to count 20 billion in pension valorization, 30 billion in State Fund of Transport Infrastructure, 100 billion in compensation for electricity prices. The National Budget Board is already alerting you. This is extremely - I repeat the extremely - an alarming report that I will not accept, and I will open it and ask that we address it on the Committee on Budgets, and we will also consider submitting an initiative to the Supreme Audit Office. The state budget isn't a piece of paper, but it's the law of the year. There's no way that tens of billions aren't sitting there in January anymore. Such falsifying of fiscal statements could threaten the legitimacy of the Czech Republic not only with international institutions but also with the reputation of the Czech Republic with our creditors. It is a red line that no finance minister has yet crossed, and I will demand that these irregularities in the scope of more than 150 billion be thoroughly explained to the Chamber of Deputies. It is not possible to stand idly by as the budget process in the hands of a five-wheeler loses its original purpose and abandons and abandons the principle of fidelity and the truth of the budget. Let us not forget that the state budget is adopted in the form of a law. And the law must be observed. But since the beginning of the budget, five koalice knows that it will not be able to implement this budget, and that is completely unacceptable. I'm a lawyer, and for me, compliance with the law is completely indisputable. Unfortunately, we are not only talking about the budget for 2023, but also about the budget for 2022. Already in its submission, I recall, I said here that it is a marketing and piáric budget, not a budget that is realistic. And development has given us the truth. After all, the longest budget provisional was the most obvious evidence. Moreover, this budgetary provisional brought spending less than only 34 billion, and these savings - in quotation marks - were in the form of blunt cuts to wage growth, defence, health care, and investment. After all, President Zeman and your expert guru, former MP Kalousek, have given us the benefit of the doubt. Unfortunately, over time it did not improve, on the contrary, it was much worse. The amended budget for 2022, which we have repeatedly challenged you to, finally showed the difference between your marketing effort and the real state of affairs. [[10.20 hours]] In 2022, and I draw from the Treasury performance of the Ministry of Finance, the planned investments were not complied with by 21.6 percent, yet you showed a deficit of 360 billion, with annual income increases due to inflation by more than 137 billion crowns. No, and for war, please, you can't really make excuses because you admit it yourself, and now I quote the Minister of Finance in cash flow, you admit that its percentage of expenditure doesn't exceed 0,9 per cent. Now, let's do another one. Budget revenues from the European Union were not filled by CZK 54 billion. These 54 billion crowns from the EU last year, i.e. in 2022, could have gone into investments that would have been tax-valued. You have unnecessarily increased the deficit by 54 billion by incompetence and laxity. You simply did not have time to submit a request for payment of money from the EU, although the projects have already been paid by Czech taxpayers. You just have other concerns than taking care of these things. Last but not least, I would like to point out the result of your fiscal policy through a completely objective indicator, which is the so-called structural deficit, or - I am now instructing everyone who does not happen to know - a deficit that has been adjusted from the effects of the economic cycle. Unlike your pre-election rhetoric, you don't solve the structural deficit at all. On the contrary, you are even growing year on year from 2,9% of GDP in 2022 to 3,1% of GDP in 2023. Third point from the sins of Petr Fiala's government - loss of income from the EET and support for the grey economy. One of the few pre-election vows you fulfilled was a completely unreasonable and illogical abolition of electronic sales records. We introduced the EET so that we could collect taxes and reduce them. Thanks to the EET, we have collected 33 billion in three years, raised our salaries in hospitality, reduced our pay to hand, increased our contributions and better targeted tax controls. And most people understood that. You canceled the EET, and because unfortunately not every taxpayer is honest, even though I agree that the vast majority do, you will not collect taxes. And that's why, logically, you have to raise them. Simple as that. If you go west of our country, you'll see that getting a receipt is perfectly normal. The higher VAT you're proposing is actually a tax on the 90th ODS logic. It's an EET cancellation tax. The two-thirds majority of our company considered the introduction of the EET to be a positive measure. Even this view remained stable over time. A positive view of the EET has been maintained in the public despite the ongoing campaign of the current government five-calice directed against the EET. EET made it impossible for dishonest entrepreneurs to cross the price demanded by the majority of the honest business sector. The real effect of the EET was obvious. It was a substantial and significant reduction in the administrative burden for all parties involved. On the contrary, unfair competition and a grey economy are being restored. In the event of an extraordinary decline in retail sales, circulation of unofficial payments is once again a problem. The fourth of the sins of Petr Fiala's government - raising taxes and promoting gambling. We are watching a false pre-election promise live that you will consolidate public finances without raising taxes. July 2021 - I quote: "The coalition of SPOLU, ODS, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09 has undertaken not to propose tax increases after the election if it participates in the government. The only exception is the digital tax, the condition is a solution at international level, the head of the ODS Members admitted and the likely candidate of the SPOLU coalition to the Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura." End quote, July 2021. Reality? You've introduced two taxes. Tax on unexpected profits, which will be the sole income of the state budget. We have proposed that the state budget, within the framework of the budgetary determination of taxes, should share this revenue with the regions and municipalities, adopted as an amendment to the tax package, the five-calice did not agree on the basic parameters, the rate of the tax, or also the retrospective in its effectiveness, the fall in the stock exchange, and so on, we have all watched it live here, the levy on excessive revenues under the Energy Act, will apply to electricity produced from the end of 2022 to the end of 2023, will account for 90 percent of the difference between the selling price and the price determined by law, discussed in legislative emergency. Incoherence of estimates, estimate of MF 85 billion, windfall tax of 15 billion, charge of price ceilings, estimate of MPO 45 billion, windfall tax of 80 billion, charge of price ceilings. I want to point out that it passed for about a week. Potential collisions with Czech constitutional order, potential strangulation effect on these sectors. Well, I'm moving on. For more than a week, maybe ten days, there's information floating in the public space that you want to unite reduced VAT rates to 13, maybe 14 percent, which is what your advisors say will have an inflationary effect, just discuss it with them to speak alike. That means, you want to cancel the second reduced rate of 10%, and you're even saying, and that's totally incredible, and that's what your finance minister said last Sunday on the talk show, that you're actually simplifying taxes. We're gonna simplify your taxes so you don't have it so complicated, nice taxpayers. Don't get two rates. Yeah, we're gonna raise them for you? That's okay, but it'll be easier for you. Then I'm sure everyone will understand. And I'm sure, Mr. absent finance minister, that you really don't want that kind of simplification. Try asking people about it on purpose. Hello, Mr. Novák, next year you will not pay CZK 3,650 for the ticket like this year, but CZK 4,000. Yeah, and you're actually gonna pay for that 500 bucks for the water, but don't worry, everything's okay, we've cleared you of a huge burden in the form of a third VAT rate. Are you serious about this? [[Let's hear it for a few Members.]] Are you making fun of these people? Admit what you're gonna raise! VAT on drugs, water and gutter VAT, heat, food, child food and so on. I can go on. You're going to increase all this. Yeah, and I hear it here, I think the Prime Minister says you're gonna lower it to groceries. Watch out. We have a rate of 15 percent on food today, which means the first one down. I'm looking at our agricultural experts to see if they agree with me. If we put 14 or even 13 there, then believe me, they'll keep it chained. Believe me, no one will feel it. And the 15% is the highest rate for food that exists in the European Union. And if we cancel the 10% rate to wipe out people and companies, I would point out that our reduced rate will be the highest in the European Union. That's how you need to explain it to people, not hide it behind some sort of decoy from the administration. You've got to be kidding me. But the only thing you wanted to cut is gambling tax. We all remember that. And most importantly, we remember that the Finance Minister publicly supported this. Luckily, under our pressure, you took the proposal back. [[10.30 hours]] The fifth of the sins of the government of Petr Fiala - the greatest poverty between OECD countries and the history of the Czech Republic. This is the point we all feel. The decline in average real wages in the third quarter and fourth quarter by almost 10 percent year on year. The highest drop in real wages in the history of the independent Czech Republic, but also from all OECD countries. Moreover, real wages are also expected to fall in 2023, in 2025 it is already growing, but at the end of 2025 the average real wages will be - beware - at the level of 2018. And these are just average variables. Part of the population is much worse. Sixth of the sins of Petr Fiala's government - the most expensive electricity and gas in the EU through purchasing power. Despite the parity of purchasing power, we have the most expensive gas, but also electricity from all countries of the European Union and it has devastating effects not only on Czech households but also on Czech companies. Plus, we're electric exporters, that's fair to say. We also have a majority stake in ČEZ. And we ask repeatedly, why aren't we using it? The seventh of Petr Fiala's government's sins - insufficient and slow assistance to companies. The whole sector reports major problems, metallurgy, glass industry, bakery, domino effect in the economy. With the fall of companies, unemployment will rise, which has remained the lowest in the European Union thanks to our government's policy. Even though we had the whole economy shut down at the time of the covid, we helped keep this up with our programs. As a result of increased unemployment, Czech households may find themselves in financial difficulties, and this will also result in an increase in state spending and an increase in budget deficits. Again, we still have the lowest unemployment rate from EU countries. Once again, once again, it is the legacy of our government that has not let businesses fall in a medical crisis. And I believe... and should be, I hope, a five-wheeler for this one of the last positives of our economy grateful, because low unemployment affects social reconciliation, the economic wealth of households, but also the incomes of public budgets. The eighth of the sins of Petr Fiala's government - a breach of social reconciliation. According to STEM's December 2022 survey, more than 80 percent of households feel more expensive, 19 percent even have significant problems. Five-calice sends Czech citizens to ask for benefits in bulk. But that's not supposed to be the right solution. Dominating a five-wheeler as a sign of good advice of the type of multiple sweaters, less heating. Or the statement by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mrs Pekarová Adamová, that the government is not here to take care of citizens. We were helping. Despite all your criticism, the citizens remember it. We've been raising pensions, not just because you're doing it, because you're being ordered by the law, a 15-year-old law. Thank God we got him. Fortunately, our projects are still being adopted, which have been pushed through at a time when we had a majority in this Chamber of Deputies. Starting in 2023, the pension began to be paid for old-age pensions, a benefit of CZK 500 per child raised. And I hope that you will manage to negotiate within the five-wheel drive and to reduce the views of the Minister of Finance so that this successful project, which is so positively welcome, especially by mothers, but sometimes by fathers, will be subdued in any way. Minimum wage, next topic. The increase in the minimum wage of CZK 1,100 and the increase in the lowest wage level for the first and eighth groups do not reflect the rate of inflation and, above all, the real decline in wages and employees, which I repeat again, is the highest in the Czech Republic from OECD countries. Minimum wage, what is its purpose? The minimum wage is intended to protect against poverty and to motivate them to work at the same time. I mean, it's better if this guy goes to work, even if he works for a minimum wage than when he's on welfare. Just work has to pay off. I understand and we understand the difficult situation of employers, entrepreneurs who often cannot afford higher wage increases, but this is once again the problem that Petr Fiala's government is causing with its inactivity. The key is early corporate support, not a whole year, months of debate, promises, signals. And I want to remind you that something unprecedented has really happened here, that we have eight types of minimum wages in eight segments of the economy, we call them guaranteed wages, and we only increase at first and eighth levels. Incomprehensible. So the message is clear: janitors, cooks, medical staff - we just won't give you a penny. That's a clear message from this government. Minister Válek, as we see it, is actively discussing the planned health charge. A total of CZK 9.5 billion is to be collected from the payers in addition to the already paid health insurance. And even, and we will also ask, we have dealt with health unions last week and are considering - beware, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, as we have accepted here in such severe, almost birthing pains the valorisation of payments for state insured people, you remember, after this government, the antisocial government, has taken 14 billion, so it begins to think about slowing down this valorisation scheme. So it hasn't started paying yet, and we're already considering ripping the health department off again. Well, why not? That's how citizens pay extra, but they're doing fine. Minister Stanjura is openly talking about the possibility of abolishing state aid for building savings. At a time of unprecedented increase in interest on mortgage loans, we saw it on TV yesterday, it was on the bar on Czech Television, as mortgage interest increased and, on the contrary, as the interest of the interested parties decreased. They just can't afford it, those young families, they can't afford to take out a mortgage because they just can't finance the interest that's connected with it anymore. The ninth of the sins of Petr Fiala's government - chaos in health care and inability to provide enough medicine. At the beginning, I repeat again, you have threatened the entire health care system with cuts in health care and reduced payments for state insured people. Yes, I'm sure, when the minister or other members of the government speak, they'll argue that there's over 50 billion in accounts. But look at the management that ends with the deficit. That's important. And what else are you planning for this important, key sector that saved us in a time of unprecedented medical crisis? The government is not addressing the increase, and here we draw, as we meet with health representatives, the increase in operating costs associated with increasing energy prices and other inputs to hospitals. [[10.40 hours]] Unfortunately, it is quite obvious, as we hear from the health sector, that Minister Válek cannot cope with the current situation. The Czech Republic lacks several dozen important medicines. People have to go to Poland or Germany to get them. You remember when we were here last week trying to place this point and performing, I believe it was my colleague Jana Mračková Vildumetzová who described the story of her mother, who she met at the pharmacy, who held a controlless child in her arms and complained desperately that she was driving around by public transport because she didn't have a car and had no one to help her, she was going around one pharmacy from another and looking for medicine for her sick child. I was sitting here in the front row, looking at the minister, freezing me out of his uninterested, uninterested face. And that is an expression - that is an expression of an antisocial and completely, totally insensitive government. The Minister's way of putting it is to call pharmacies, and if we call a hundred pharmacies, some of them will eventually get the drugs. That's unacceptable! It's mostly about children, and who has children or grandchildren must feel that way. We have to feel for those who simply solve this problem, and the waiting times in the children's ER are eight hours, and have you seen the photos that flew through social media between Christmas? Fronts in front of pharmacies in Brno, Prague, huge, long queues. You're supposed to be dealing with this instead of the Czech Television Act. People don't care. You're supposed to be dealing with this! [[A round of applause in the benches of the YES movement.]] Tenth of the sins of Petr Fiala's government - an effort to censor information in public space. At the Ministry of the Interior - we read it between the holidays - there is an action plan for combating misinformation in coordination with the Office of the Government. A new crime is to be introduced: deliberate dissemination of misinformation. Independent media that will participate in the fight against misinformation are to be subsidized. We'll see who's picking them out, probably some independent government commission. And for that purpose, the government wants to pay for nonprofit organizations. So the state also intends to create a legal tool for shutting down the north, which will be labeled disinformation. The government - we have read all this - wants to divide 100 million crowns with its friendly media and 50 million other nonprofits, which will determine what is allowed and what is not. The Minister of the Interior speaks openly about wanting to limit the operation of websites and media that write things that the government doesn't like. I am from a generation, and a lot of you, from a generation that remembers how it was restricted in the previous regime freedom of speech. How could you not tell the media what she wanted, how we couldn't tell each other what we wanted? How those who did it were persecuted. We all remember that. And we also remember that the most precious thing the Velvet Revolution brought was freedom of speech. Let's go over the appetite for her restraint. Let yourself go over the appetite to silence those with whom you disagree, who are the only democrats in this country all the time! [[Let's hear it from the YES benches.]] Eleventh of the sins of Petr Fiala's government - an effort to dominate Czech television. A completely unnecessary effort to dominate Czech Television, when it wants to control the Czech Television Council by increasing the number of councillors of Czech Television by being elected by the Senate. This newly composed Czech Television Council will then vote for the new CEO of Czech Television. And I ask why, in the period of the highest decline in real wages from all EU countries, five-wheelers deal with relatively well-functioning Czech television. Moreover, it is quite clear why the five-wheeler is taking this step. We know why. Because he has complete control of the Senate. But do you realize that only Czech TV will be beaten by this step? That in the end you will achieve only that Czech television loses confidence in the public? Why? Do the five-calice Members feel that Czech television is a tendential one? That it informs in favour of the YES movement? Do you feel that way? Then why are you doing this? The 12th of the sins of Petr Fiala's government - an unsolved corruption case of government parties. I'm going to start with the STAN movement, which has been able to repeat every ODS case in the 1990s in the last year. The highlight of all STAN's case is the Dosimeter case, which we have all watched live here, which revealed the link between the leading representatives of STAN, including members of the Bureau, with the mafia structure of Krejčířův's man Michal Redl. The group around Redl and the councilman behind STAN Hlubuček influenced contracts in Prague and discussed public property in broad daylight. It was sucked mainly to the Transport Company. After all these STAN scandals, this continues with the KDU-ČSL proposal for the appointment of Petr Hladík as Minister. You yourself claimed that it was necessary to explain and investigate everything first, and since then we know nothing new, just the time has passed and the case has sprung medially. He's no longer filling the headlines. In short, Prime Minister Petr Fiala is just worried about his government. He's just worried about his hundred and eight. That's all. But I mean, that's not how a strong Prime Minister behaves. And the 13th of the sins of Petr Fiala's government - an unused Presidency in the EU Council. However, this has been reflected in the sign of waiting for a European solution in reducing the standard of living. The Czech Presidency has wasted the opportunity to help our economy. By the accelerated end of the combustion engines, you went against our automotive industry and against our citizens. Who gave you the mandate? Who gave you the mandate to cost our cars just in such a short time? Where are these people supposed to take it? Who gave you the mandate to vote and support that the emission allowances against which the Prime Minister so strongly excited before the elections, do we remember that from public debates, so that you extend them to Czech households? No one gave you this mandate. It's just that you didn't fight it, you didn't support it. [[Let's hear it from the YES benches.]] Madam, honourable Members, I have outlined the basic reasons, the 13 greatest sins, why the YES movement will vote in favour of distrusting the government of Petr Fiala. A government that doesn't help. A government that doesn't solve real problems that are antisocial, which is incompetent and that in one year has managed to turn the Czech Republic from a prosperous economic tiger into a poorer state, which falls in one economic indicator after another. In a country whose industry is wasting away and citizens are worried about tomorrow. In a country where basic security is no longer valid, but the only certainty is chaos, corruption, the decline in public services, the decline in standard of living, high taxes and record debt. But such a country does not have to be and must not be the Czech Republic. Citizens remember that the government of Andrej Babiš's prime minister proved the exact opposite. It has provided citizens with an increase in standard of living, brought lower taxes, economic prosperity, a decline in government debt at the time of the entry of the Covid. And what's important is positive expectations for the future. She brought them hope. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u5	Now I ask Prime Minister Petr Fiala if he is interested in the performance? It's logged in, so I assume. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, some of you have decided to call for another vote at this time, a second vote on the government's distrust. This past was also before the elections, shortly before the elections, and in addition in the first half of the Presidency of the Czech Republic in the Council of the European Union. You called him up even though you said you wouldn't propose a distrust speech to the government during the Presidency. Yet you did, and now you're doing it again shortly before the election. I don't believe your goal is anything other than some media show in the middle of the presidential election, but I won't, I won't judge your actions. I think the citizens will make their own judgment. Finally, with its speech by President Schillerová, she has shown the helplessness and despair that, after 13 months of our government, we can see the huge difference between our results compared to the chaos and confusion and the government in favour of personal interests and the conflict of interest that was here before our government came. [[THE LAUGHTER OF YES MEMBERS]] And it is visible in virtually all areas, some I will mention, whether it is the handling of the covid, energy security, investment in infrastructure and other and other things. In 13 months, our government has been able to make a significant difference in the situation despite everything we've faced. Yes, it's been 13 months today, I think exactly, since our government was appointed. We've been through more than usual in ten years. In the past year, he undoubtedly changed Europe, changed it forever, and put our entire country before a decision so serious that it would become a life test for every government. I am convinced that we have done well so far, and why I am convinced of this, I will argue this in my speech. Let me remind you of what our government has achieved to date and why, then, honourable Members, it deserves your trust. If I were to say so shortly at the outset, your confidence is worthy because the Czech Republic, under our leadership, is successfully undergoing the biggest crisis that most of us have experienced, and that we are still able to fulfill the long-term visions that we presented to you at the beginning of our government. In my speech I will therefore concentrate on the most important challenges and problems that he has faced in the past year and which we have managed to cope with together with the citizens of the Czech Republic. For each of these topics, I will briefly remind you of what we have done to ensure that the Czech Republic and its citizens are as sure as possible so that we can make the best possible investment in our future together. The first big issue that our government dealt with exactly a year ago was the continued pandemic of coronavirus. This was not a marginal or dying problem, but rather the biggest wave of diseases that the Czech countries have been through since the beginning of the pandemic. I'm just gonna remind those numbers so maybe somebody doesn't forget it. We had up to 430,000 active cases per day, while the previous government had 169,000 cases per day during the previous pandemic waves at the maximum; 460,000 (?) cases per day to 169,000 cases per day. This wave has been the most extensive stress test for our health care and in many respects for the whole society. And yet we were able to deal with this complicated situation. We relied on regular testing in companies, we managed to ensure effective vaccination, we introduced generous, meaningfully set compensation for entrepreneurs. But above all, and this is important, we have restored, significantly restored people's trust - people's confidence in vaccination, people's trust in the health system, people's trust in responsible state governance in a time of crisis. This trust was, as we all remember, strongly shaken because of the incompetence of the previous government. It was her management that caused long-term chaos and, unfortunately, tens of thousands of unnecessary deaths. Our government has put an end to this chaos, put in place measures that have produced results. The health system, state institutions, citizens and companies understood the purpose of our measures and why we were doing them. We have kept a cool head and, as a result, we have overcome the worst phase of the crisis together. As a result, we have gone through the biggest covid crisis without chaotic bans, without pointless restrictions, without dysfunctional lockdowns, which would weaken our economy even more or pollute our citizens. We didn't close the districts, we didn't cut off any towns and villages from the rest of the world, just like in the previous government, for example, Uničov, who I recently visited, or Litovel and other and other villages, just remember. We didn't do any lockdowns, County closings, school closings, nothing like that. And yet we were able to cope with this wave of covid, to go through it with an incomparably smaller number of victims and damage than the previous government did with much smaller waves. A successful wave of pandemics has replaced another huge wave, the need to respond to Russia's war attack on Ukraine, which is directly affecting our country in many ways. Our government was clear from the start that the only option was to stand for Ukraine, offer it help and increase the chance of Ukraine defending itself. Ukraine is a country that is close to us in many ways. Its assault was a clear act of international aggression, and it was therefore our duty, as well as our moral duty, to support it. At the same time, we are clearly strengthening our own security, the long-term security of the Czech Republic and Europe. Russia, with its attacks, is trying to change the balance on the European continent, and this threatens us directly and is in our personal interest to stand up to these efforts. And our government did it from the beginning and knew it from the beginning. Our involvement in this aid has more levels. First of all, it is, of course, military assistance and supplies of military equipment. Our government has succeeded in achieving absolutely exceptional cooperation between the state, the Czech defence industry and our allies in the North Atlantic Alliance and in the European Union. An incredible number of companies, associations, municipalities and citizens have been involved in the collections for the purchase of weapons and other materials, and this also needs to be recalled with gratitude. The result was supplies of weapons, logistics equipment, military, medical and humanitarian materials for billions of crowns. Since the beginning of the conflict, the Czech Republic has been among the states that supply Ukraine with the largest amount of military assistance given the amount of their gross domestic product, without endangering our defence or weakening our own capacities, perhaps on the contrary. Overall, this was a substantial and reasonable aid that contributed to the reversal of the war and helped push Russia back. And because we acted quickly, decisively, with conviction, our support was really effective. [[11.00 hours]] For some weapons categories, we were the first to supply Ukraine with the necessary technology. And that is also important, because our success inspired other states and triggered the domino effect, which, in all modesty, I add to the unambiguous achievements of our government. We can be proud of that. And we must continue to do so as long as Ukraine needs our help. And what is important about this aid and what must also be emphasized, recalled and underlined, thanks to the fact that most of our aid was carried out on a commercial basis, that means that other countries ordered the technique that they subsequently handed over to Ukraine, thanks to this commercial basis, through this approach, we massively supported our domestic industry with these steps. Moreover, much of the military assistance will be paid by the European Union or our allies in the North Atlantic Alliance. Our partners in the North Atlantic Alliance, in NATO, appreciated our rapid and effective response, and that is why we received technology and equipment from them for our own defense. This is how these things relate, and only thanks to the good steps and the timely steps of our government can I say this here. We have acquired technology and equipment for my own defence, I can mention especially the German Leopard tanks, whose deliveries to the Czech Republic have already started, or, for example, American helicopters. I know that there are people among you in this Chamber of Deputies who are criticizing our aid to the country under appeal. They demand that we try to ensure peace, in quotation marks, by other means. However, I am sure that the concessions we would make today towards Russia would return to us as a boomerang in the future, and the consequences would be much worse. There are many examples of this from history, not only the old history, but also the very recent one. After all, today's attack on Ukraine is to a large extent an expression of Russian imperialism, which the West allowed to grow unnecessarily, for example, by failing to respond crediblely, strongly, to respond uniformly to the illegitimate occupation of the Crimean peninsula in 2014. And I am very glad that, after the attack on Ukraine last February, we did not make the same mistake, and I am proud that our government, our country, has taken the right position from the start. The Czech Republic naturally supports the achievement of peace. We will do everything we can to help find a long-term stable solution when the time comes, but it must lead to negotiations that initiate the Kiev government, with which the Ukrainian side will be fully comfortable. This is primarily about Ukrainian independence, Ukrainian lives, Ukrainian soil, and no third country has the right to try to impose a truce on Ukraine that it will not agree to. So if anyone today wants us to force Ukraine to accept the peace of arms that it does not want, if anyone is trying to tell people that, because of the promotion of Ukraine's fair defence or because of the sanctions against Russia, we are destroying the chance of bringing our country to war, he is lying in such a case and, above all, wants Ukraine to impose a new Munich agreement. And such a person should be ashamed to remember what Mnichov brought not only to our country, but also to those signatories to the Munich Agreement. However, if Ukraine decides at some point to open peace negotiations, it obviously has our full support and can count on our continued assistance. In connection with how the Czech Republic, under the leadership of our government, manages the effects of the war in Ukraine, I would also like to remind you that this war crisis has not had a direct negative impact on Czech citizens - direct, indirect, of course, yes. And that is something that was certainly not obvious in this situation. What I am saying is very well seen in how the Czech society dealt with a wave of war refugees who came to us during last year and who were seeking asylum and security with us. Since the beginning of the war, there have been some 460 000 war refugees from Ukraine, mostly women and children registered in the Czech Republic. It is not the final number of those who would be here at any moment because part of the refugees have returned in the meantime, but it is still the most intense wave of migration, the refugee wave since World War II, the wave with which we now have direct experience. Our government has provided refugees with all the help we have had since the first day - and this is also important, from the first day - so that it does not impose a burden on Czech citizens and companies. I think that our efforts are very well confirmed by the fact that we have avoided not only a massive humanitarian crisis but also everyday social problems. Let us just remember that as many as 17 000 refugees came to the Czech Republic every day at one time, that there was a need to deal with all kinds of problems operationally, but we can still say that the Czech Republic managed this challenge under the leadership of our government and managed it perhaps best in Europe. We manage to integrate refugees into our society, the coexistence of Ukrajinec with Čech is completely smooth and the crisis has no negative impact on Czech citizens. For this I am grateful to Czech citizens and I would like to thank them again for the huge wave of solidarity and support from this place. The results are therefore very good, although the total cost of this assistance, and it is also good to recall, did not exceed, are less than CZK 20 billion. And half of this amount went to compensation for Czech citizens and companies. This includes expenditure for health insurance companies, accommodation contributions for participating companies and solidarity households, and so on. These are all much better numbers and a much better proportion of results and costs than we expected at the beginning, based on some expert estimates. What is very positive, and it is also the result of a good approach, good policy and cooperation between government, self-government and the business sector, companies, what is very positive, is that 100,000, more than 100,000 Ukrajinec have already found work here. These people pay standard taxes and insurance, while their arrival on the Czech market has not reduced or aggravated the development of unemployment, companies with which we regularly talk, welcome and appreciate their involvement. It is, of course, no secret that the Czech Republic is slowly coming across its limits in terms of the number of people that we can accommodate with us without difficulty. This is also why we are now trying to take advantage of the relative calming down of the situation in most Ukrainian territories and to improve our assistance on the ground. And we're doing this so that most people don't have a reason to run away from Ukraine. In close cooperation with our partners in the North Atlantic Alliance and the European Union, we are supplying Ukraine with humanitarian and logistical equipment and we are trying to help it stabilize the energy situation so that it can survive this winter as best as possible so that it can function as a functioning, functional state in the long term. Here I would like to mention, for example, the recent agreement on the European Council, where we agreed on the so-called macro-financial assistance for Ukraine. This financial package provides Kyjev with long-term funding security, and that is precisely what is important for stability in Ukraine's territory and for us to create prevention for another possible refugee wave. It is quite clear that Ukraine can only find it very difficult to borrow money in financial markets in this situation, and European aid guarantees that it can continue to fulfil the basic functions of the state that it must provide to its citizens. This amount is EUR 18 billion for 2023 and it is also an important result of the various negotiations conducted under the leadership of the Czech Presidency in the Council of the European Union. Very active - and this is also important from the perspective, it is important for our companies, for our industry - we are very active in the negotiations for post-war reconstruction, which will ensure that Ukraine then gets on its feet after the war. This massive reconstruction - and it is already showing and the negotiations are under way and the projects are already underway - will, among other things, become a huge opportunity for our businesses and our entrepreneurs. [[11.10 hours]] Despite how many turns we have managed to pick in that very critical and crisis year 2022, the war logically has a number of critical impacts on the Czech state and the Czech society, which will make life difficult for a long time and which we must respond to. The war and the energy crisis connected with it mean for us high energy prices, or price instability of energy, material prices and various goods. The crisis also means a huge intervention in supply chains, multiplying uncertainty in markets, and deepening some of the problems that have already started to a lesser extent at the time of the cod crisis. Of course, this leads to difficult tasks and great challenges for our government. And these are probably the most obvious, most visible, in the field of energy. The war fully showed how vulnerable the Czech Republic was. Until recently, we were almost completely - out of 97 percent - dependent on Russian gas. In a significant way, we were, and fatally dependent, on Russian oil. We were completely dependent on Russian nuclear fuel. And so I could go on. That is why we have become one of the most endangered countries in Europe in terms of energy security. It was a completely unnecessary risk, that is to be said. This was an unnecessary risk, because many countries with comparable conditions, such as the Czech Republic, did not wait for war, and long ago they were responsible for providing sufficiently varied sources of energy. Our extremely weak energy security is at the mercy of previous governments that have done nothing to prepare us for the future. Because of our addiction, we were in real danger of being held hostage by Vladimir Putin in his energy war against the West. Fortunately, we have not been intimidated, responded in time, found or unlocked roads to safe energy, and so far we are taking steps to make the Czech Republic a truly safe energy country. Immediately after the crisis broke out, we started filling gas tanks, which we managed to fill to almost 100 percent before winter. Thanks to the introduction of the rule use it or lose it, we have ensured that none of our capacities are wasted. There's enough gas in the tanks now. Last week they were filled with 86 percent. And for the first time in history, there's a supply of gas and material reserve management. It's a certain insurance policy for protected customers in case there's a crisis development. We are trying to diversify natural gas sources as quickly as possible in today's difficult situation. We are intensively discussing new agreements with gas exporters. And so I could go on. We purchased a significant share of the capacity of the Dutch Liquefied Gas Terminal - 3 billion ccs a year. In the coming years they will cover a third of the Czech Republic's consumption. It was, by the way, the first ever liquefied gas terminal in Europe to work since the beginning of the war, and it is one of the important steps for us to take towards energy independence from Russia. The first terminal - and we were able to negotiate capacity for the Czech Republic in this very terminal. It allows us all to buy gas now, before the completion of the new pipelines that are traditionally needed for the transport of gas. But even in this area, in the area of gas pipelines and interconnections and energy infrastructure, we are waiting for nothing. Once again we started preparing the construction of the Stork II pipeline between the Czech Republic and Poland, which was one of the things that the previous government incomprehensiblely let slip away. This pipeline will contribute significantly to the diversification of resources, not only for the Czech Republic. As far as oil is concerned, we are preparing a TAL+ pipeline project. And we have already reached an agreement to expand the capacity of the existing TAL pipeline, but we are preparing the TAL+, which will provide us with sufficient capacity for the purchase of oil that does not come from Russia in the future. [[unintelligible]] Within two years, the project will significantly increase the transport capacity of the current pipeline from Trieste to Ingolstadt, which could mean that our refineries will be supplied 100% from non-Russian sources in the foreseeable future. At the same time, with the launch of these key projects, we have negotiated a temporary exemption within the European Union for the supply of Russian oil. We have negotiated a number of exceptions and advantages for the Czech Republic, I will get back to it a little bit. Unfortunately, in the previous period the Czech citizens in the European Union failed to negotiate much, actually almost nothing at all. But we negotiated a temporary exemption for Russian oil supplies. We are, of course, determined to replace Russia's resources and insist on sanctions against Russia. But since the Czech Republic has previously underestimated its energy dependence, it will take us some time to completely get rid of our dependence on Russian raw materials, so, for example, we can still use the Družba pipeline for two years. We had to negotiate all this. And it is a tax on the fact that energy security has been criminally neglected by past governments. We have been extremely active in the negotiations in the European Union. We have also taken advantage of the benefits provided by our Presidency and have succeeded in a shift in the energy platform agreement, which improves cooperation between the Member States of the European Union in the sharing of gas supplies or in joint gas purchases, which is important in terms of long-term stability, but also, and we must not underestimate that, it will have an impact on the reduction of gas prices. We have also concluded bilateral agreements on solidarity in the event of a gas emergency. Here, I think the most important thing is the deal we made with Germany. We are putting great hope in nuclear energy, without which the Czech Republic simply cannot really do without it. We launched a tender for the completion of a nuclear power plant in Dukovany, without Russia, of course, a tender that has been iced for several years. Within the framework of European taxonomy, and this is another success, we have pushed for a core on which the Czech Republic is significantly dependent and will depend so that the core will be considered as an emission-free resource for the future, i.e. also a financing resource. And that brings me to what I think is extremely important and what shows that our government is really thinking about the future on energy issues. In addition to the things I was talking about, we have substantially simplified the construction of power plants that will produce energy from renewable sources by amending the Energy Act. We also improve the future of Czech energy by a number of long-term strategic projects and in the context of what happened here in the past, really brave projects. For example, we can mention the planned transformation of ČEZ, which aims to return control of some energy sources to the state. We are also able to do projects in cooperation with other partners who really aim and predict what will be important in the future. Here I will remind you of the South Bohemian Nuclear Park, a pilot research project that will accelerate the deployment of small modular reactors in the Czech Republic, and they will probably become one of the foundations of Czech energy together with renewable resources. We are preparing a Dukovan hotline, which, for example, will supply the city of Brno with clean heat. And so I could go on. Overall, we have directed our country towards complete independence from Russian raw materials, also to a faster transformation towards the core and renewable resources, which is very important for our energy security, sufficient energy, enough energy at affordable prices in the future. [[11.20 hours]] I would like to ask a rhetorical question here, but do everyone really ask it and try to answer it: When was the last time the Czech government actually dared to cross the horizon of one parliamentary term and take similar important steps to ensure energy and prosperity in decades? When was the last time a Czech government dared something like this? Thanks to the energy projects that I have briefly named here, I am convinced that our government is doing a lot for the good future of the Czech Republic. I would also like to remind you that these measures and projects are not simply the result of our response to the crisis. You can find many of these projects in our programming statement, which we signed before the war and which we talked about in the long term precisely because we have a strategy, we have an idea and that we knew from the outset that without these projects, the Czech Republic will not be able to do without this change in the long term. The evolution of events gave us the truth, forced us to speed up some of our steps. I am not pleased that the development of events has given us the truth, because it is tragic events, but I think it would be fair for us to add this sense of reality and this foresight to the good. Because we are not only looking to the nearest elections, but our government, our government coalition, remembers the future of the Czech Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, action towards energy independence would be pointless if, at the same time, we could not reduce the pressure that the energy crisis has on our citizens, especially the weakest and most vulnerable. That is why we have been thinking from the beginning that we must not let anyone fall, and we are putting help to households, help to companies, help to vulnerable people above budget promises and the principles of responsible fiscal policy. We're not hiding it, we're saying it openly. Helping households, firms, vulnerable in this difficult situation is important, and it must stand above our budgetary promises. These are measures that impose a burden on the state, and there is no need to hide it or to make it any less difficult. It is a burden, but we have never doubted that these measures are simply necessary. I would therefore like to recapitulate the results in this area. For last year, we introduced a so-called austerity tariff. It protected citizens, and effectively protected them, as it turns out, from the worst increase in energy reserves. Thanks to him, citizens saved CZK 4,000 on average last year. For 2023, we have chosen a solution by means of a ceiling on energy prices. A solution that is much, much more extensive. For households, small and medium-sized companies and public institutions, since the beginning of this year we have reduced the price of electricity at the level of CZK 6 per kilowatt hour including VAT, for gas at the level of CZK 3 per kilowatt hour including VAT. Subsequently, we prepared help and ceiling for large companies. People and companies see on their invoices that we have also forgiven them the renewable energy charges by the end of 2023, saving them CZK 599 for every megawatt hour. We are trying to help at different levels, and also constantly, in addition to measures aimed directly at energy prices, so in addition, we are constantly improving the social safety network so that people who simply get into trouble because of the war and its effects, because of the situation they are not responsible for, do not fall under this social network. For people who were in a marginal situation, they ended up with the supplier of last resort, I remind you, we also had to deal with the impact of the Bohemia Energy crash and the impact on customers, as well as those who ended up with the supplier of last instance, we reduced the validity of this scheme to three months so that they could conclude a new, more advantageous energy contract faster. By launching the Green Savings Light program, we help to save energy and motivate people to manage effectively, even those citizens who could not afford such investments in the current situation, but thanks to modifications to the program, thanks to the Green Savings Light programme, the program is much wider, or is usable for a much larger group of citizens. We have also extended the housing allowance. We have increased the normative housing costs since January 2022 and for the second time significantly since October 2022, so that much more people will reach the contribution today. The administration has also simplified, the claim for a contribution has been simplified, which helps many to bear housing costs, and the average amount has increased. Now the average amount is around CZK 4,700 a month. And that's effective state aid. In addition, citizens can use additional contributions - a living allowance, extra immediate assistance - and in all these categories of social assistance, we proceed with the utmost purpose, with reason, without populist accents, simply to help those who really need it, and at the same time to contribute as little as possible to inflation, which devalues all the money that citizens have, and hence the contributions themselves. Prices of electricity on world markets are now falling for a number of reasons, which will gradually translate into further price reductions for end customers. Certainly, our past Presidency in the Council of the European Union has also had an impact on calming the situation in Europe, on the fact that gas and electricity prices are falling. And that's another result of our government, a result I'd like to stop by with. We have managed to push, negotiate and move forward at European level, or else it would not be possible to do so. I count that among the great achievements of our government. The situation that Russia has thrown us into is that we cannot solve completely ourselves, and who says so does not tell people the truth. However, if we ensure that the whole Union agrees on fundamental issues, it has spoken with one voice to Russia, which has succeeded in the Czech Presidency, then our influence is incomparably greater and easier to achieve what our country needs for life. I am very happy about this, and I am proud that our Presidency has been successful in this regard. Much more successful than anybody, perhaps anyone, predicted in the beginning. We have been able to bear responsibility for the entire European 27 in these difficult times. We have been able to get the best out of our Presidency and we have reaped recognition from practically all sides. Thanks to this, the Czech Republic has gained experience, gained contacts and mainly, and I certainly do not need to stress this, we have really improved our not quite good reputation so far. A year ago, we were considered a state in Europe that can only draw subsidies and criticize all proposals and nothing can push through and no one takes it very seriously. Our government has managed to build credit, respect in the Czech Republic in Europe within a short time, and we can use that now and also use it for further negotiations. The general aim of our Presidency was for the European Union to not be at an impasse because of internal disputes, so that it could concentrate on the most important thing. To its safety, resilience and competitiveness in this volatile critical time influenced by war. And we have succeeded in meeting this goal, as the results show in individual areas and, above all, in those areas that we have set ourselves as a priority. [[11.30 hours]] The first priority of the Presidency was, of course, the war with Russia, Ukraine, its postwar recovery and management of the refugee crisis, or the effects of the war unleashed by Russia, aggression in Ukraine and all the things related to it. During our Presidency, we have been able to maintain a united position with regard to the aggressor. We have approved three penalty packages against Russia and Belarus. We have improved the enforcement of sanctions, reduced the issue of visas to the Rus. We have secured cooperation with the International Criminal Court in the investigation of war crimes. We continued to support Ukraine, provide it with broad assistance, long-term security of financial assistance, and I have already mentioned EUR 18 billion for this year, as well as the prospect of financial recovery. We help people on the ground with financial and humanitarian aid instruments. That's important. We help them on the spot so they don't have to run to other countries. However, if, by coincidence and other Russian aggressive actions, there is another migration wave, the European FAST-CARE programme will ensure that its multilateral impacts are as small as possible and as smoothly as possible. But what we do mostly is that by using the help that we coordinate with each other in the European Union and with other countries, we create a prevention for people not to have to run away from Ukraine. We are strengthening the security of our citizens and the security of Europe as a whole. Another priority was energy security, where we provided enough reserves for the current heating season for the whole European Union, negotiated joint gas purchases, covered its prices and agreed on solidarity mechanisms between states in the event of a shortage of gas. Thanks to our negotiations, the European Union is releasing an additional EUR 20 billion to the REPowerEU programme, which will reduce Europe's dependence on Russian fossil fuels, and the Czech Republic will only get about CZK 17 billion out of this package. The limitation of our dependence on Russian gas and oil has a direct effect on the security of the Czech Republic. We have approved the coordination of the European Union states in reducing the needs of gas and electricity, speeding up and simplifying the authorisation of power stations, renewable power plants, so that key energy structures will now be built faster thanks to the results of our Presidency and no one will be able to block them for no reason, as we have seen in the past. Of course, in the field of energy, we have also focused on ensuring sufficient energy for our consumers, reducing the effects of their price fluctuations and helping people in the crisis in general. And we did it with the same determination and the same competence as we did at national level. And even here, the results are clear and conclusive. The price of energy is ceilinged, Member States have tools in their hands to help their citizens, such as excessive profits from energy producers and other sectors are redirected to support households and small and medium-sized enterprises, just as we did in the Czech Republic. Given how critically Russia is disrupting the security situation in Europe, the Czech Presidency has also focused on increasing our security and defence capabilities. This concerns, for example, cyberspace, digital technologies that our society is more and more dependent on. Unfortunately, Russia understands this and other dangerous actors understand it, and that is why it is doing a number of attacks in this area, and we have recently seen a significant increase in them. We have therefore advocated greater resilience of information technologies that affect our communication, but also affect the functioning of hospitals, banks, insurance companies and all supply chains in our economy. We have reached agreement on a common Union action against Union threats. In the area of conventional defence, we have reached an agreement to complement military stocks, cooperate with third countries in protecting external borders or exchange of information between national security forces. And these are absolutely essential, in the current situation, key instruments for our security. Russia's attack on Ukraine, as well as the dying pandemic of covid, significantly affects the interconnected global economy, and it is therefore necessary to strengthen its resilience. That was our goal, too. The Czech Presidency has responded to this situation by many successful agreements in areas such as deepening the internal market, protecting against unfair practices of third countries or digitising them. We have reached a uniform position of the Member States to discuss the draft act on chips. Let us remember the crisis with chips how important this is for the European Union and the Czech Republic in particular. The chip act will strengthen Europe's autonomy in the production of this important component. This is indeed a crucial matter not only in terms of our security, but it is also an important opportunity for the development of the Czech economy towards an economy with high added value, and this must be our interest in the future. The Council of the European Union under Czech leadership approved the general budget of the Union for the year 2023, thanks to which projects co-financed by the budget of the European Union can continue in the Czech Republic. In practice, this means that important infrastructure projects such as road construction or building insulation will not be at risk. We managed to negotiate agreement on a large part of the Fit for 55 package, in a form that does not impair the position and competitiveness of the Czech Republic and contains a number of guarantees. We have achieved a number of concessions, including from the very green European Parliament, and I dare say that we have negotiated a much better agreement than that which would arise - in terms of the interests of the Czech Republic - than it would have been under the following Swedish or Spanish Presidency. One of our Presidency's priorities was also the protection of democracy and the resilience of democratic institutions, which are currently threatened by extremism and Russian hybrid attacks. That is why we have intensively addressed issues of transparency, political advertising, funding of political parties, foundations and other things. But we have also begun to discuss the proposal for a European law on freedom of the media, which will increase transparency in media ownership and strengthen independent media projects. All these steps, when reasonably implemented and to be reasonably implemented, the Czech Presidency has tried to contribute, are important for maintaining fair democratic competition. What I would also like to mention is that the Czech Republic played an important role in the heated debate on the principles of the rule of law in Hungary. As a result, we have contributed to a mutually acceptable and beneficial compromise. We were able to unblock the Hungarian veto on some things, it was not only financial aid to Ukraine, it was also corporation taxation and other and other things, and at the same time we released for Hungary, reached an agreement to free up some of the cohesion funds. I think that this ability to reach a compromise on such a difficult issue also shows the capacity and results of the Czech Presidency. In addition to the successful agreements concluded between the Member States, which will enable European countries to take care of their security and respond adequately to the problems that surround us all, I would also like to remind the excellently managed organisational and technical aspects of our Presidency here and thank all those involved in this. This was clearly seen during three hundred, three hundred official events that took place within the Presidency, whether they were conferences, cultural events, round tables, work meetings, various meetings in Brussels, abroad and across the Czech Republic. We have also held 14 informal ministerial meetings, i.e. meetings agreed by the ministers of the Member States, or have prepared an agreement on measures that will significantly help the citizens of the European Union and therefore the citizens of the Czech Republic. [[11.40 hours]] The organisation of the Prague summit, which hosted 44 leaders from all over Europe, was undoubtedly of particular importance.This was the first event of the European political community. It was an event that attracted practically the whole world's attention to the Czech Republic. It was also an exceptional event in terms of the possibility to conduct negotiations that were not normally conducted, and people who did not meet regularly could meet here. The countries involved, thanks to the summit, in some cases, have found common ground on pressing issues which, however, also actually concern us, whether it be energy self-sufficiency, border control, combating illegal migration and more and more. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of our current situation, I would like to turn away from the current framework of my speech, in which I have focused on the results, the achievements of our government behind it, and I will touch on the subject of a highly up-to-date and still unfinished one. It is a matter of the lack of certain medicines. That's a lot of questions coming from you, but also from journalists. It is logical that drug failures cause legitimate concerns in parents of young children, in weakened patients, and in many others. We want to assure you, and I want to assure you that I understand these concerns, and our government is doing everything in its power to calm the situation as soon as possible. The availability of some medicines in our market is really not good. I guess we all see that. There's no point in covering it up. This is a global problem that is significantly worse in the Czech Republic and Europe than elsewhere. Excuse me - does not show significantly worse than elsewhere. We're better off compared to the rest of the world, but there are blackouts, and there are problems. The failures are partly due to the market structure, because the world is dependent on a relatively small number of producers in this matter. The supply chains are broken, they've been disrupted by covid. But that's just one factor. The main problem, however, is the current situation in the world, and this is a massive increase in respiratory diseases after the last wave of covid has subsided. The disease is about 40 percent more than before the covid, and this has caused a worldwide demand that no one expected, not even those who have been ordering drugs for a long time, nor the producers themselves. The planning of production takes months, so it is not easy in a short time to correct the imbalance. Moreover, the Czech Republic is going through a flu epidemic that is worse than usual and will last at least until the end of January. The government traditionally and standardly, it is also necessary to say, drugs do not provide, there does not work any mode of central shopping and redistribution. The responsibility is on products, distributors and pharmacies. But in spite of the fact that the government does not provide this standard or traditionally does not provide for it, we feel obliged to help, and that is why we have also taken concrete steps. The Ministry of Health deals intensively with producers and distributors, meetings are also held at European Union level. The Minister is personally involved in this. The situation is regularly met by a working group composed of representatives of the Ministry, the State Institute for Drug Control, the Czech Pharmacy Chamber and pharmaceutical distributors. Our goal is to get drugs out of standard mode, such as from other states. But at the same time, I want to assure you that the situation, although there is a shortage of drugs, is not as serious as we can sometimes hear in public space. In the area of antibiotics, there is no danger that patients do not receive the necessary treatment because the missing products can be replaced by equally effective alternatives and the delivery of missing medicines gradually comes to us. Last week, I said here from this place during the interpellations that an antibiotic supply would arrive in the Czech Republic this week. That's what happened. A supply of tens of thousands of packets of penicillin came in yesterday. We're expecting another delivery next week, and so will we in the coming weeks. This happened thanks to the active work of the Ministry of Health. The situation in the field of children's antipyretics is also significantly improved, even in recent weeks hundreds of thousands of packages have arrived in the Czech Republic. Tens of thousands more should arrive by the end of January. So it is not necessary to create supplies of medicines somewhere at home or elsewhere that you will not use and then may miss those who currently need them. We are in a position to stabilise the situation in the field of drugs, and I must say that this is certainly not the case for all European countries that are facing a shortage of medicines similar to the Czech Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat regularly, and I think everyone understands that our government has taken over the management of the Czech Republic in the most difficult situation our country has experienced in decades. We also had to rethink priorities, we had to devote most of our energy to solving new existential issues and the challenges that came. But despite the crisis and despite all this, we keep our promises and have succeeded in fulfilling a number of tasks from our programming statement. I'm just gonna randomly remind some of them. We have secured massive investments in transport infrastructure, where we work with a record budget of 150 billion crowns. We're sending significantly more money for defense. Finally, we are heading towards fulfilling our commitment to the North Atlantic Alliance and the task that we have in terms of our security - we have also approved a relevant law on government, which sets minimum expenditures of 2 percent of GDP in defence. We strongly support education, strategic scientific disciplines, research and innovation. We support employment and labour flexibility. We have simplified the state, both tax system and grant programs for small and medium-sized companies, we have abolished electronic records of sales. We have increased the transparency of public administration, strengthened the fight against corruption. We have submitted an amendment to the Public Procurement Act. We are making responsible use of the European Union's financial resources. We simplified the construction law and took clear steps to shorten the construction procedure. We're digitizing agendas where it makes the most sense, and we're moving those agendas into the 21st century. We're stopping by for an open, free internet. We have set fairer rules for agricultural subsidies, supported small, medium and ecological farmers. We have negotiated such compromises in the area of the European Green Deal, which will not endanger Czech companies. We rebooted the project to expand the nuclear power plant in Dukovany. We got a stake in the liquefied gas terminal. And we keep many more and more promises and plans. In all resorts, we have started changes that will lead to fulfillment of our promises, to fulfill our programming statement in the coming years. Yes, there are areas where we feel the need to update our programming declaration. Simply because the situation in the context of the war in Ukraine has simply changed. We must take greater responsibility for our defences, we must strengthen our security, faster than we originally planned. We are going to have intense discussions on how to ensure our energy sovereignty effectively and as quickly as possible. We must finally move our transport infrastructure into the 21st century. We must and we want to do everything that previous governments did not have the courage to do. To offer the Czech Republic pension reform and significantly modernise our education. In the future, we simply need to look at strengthening our country even further in order to create and implement a vision that goes beyond the horizon of one parliamentary term. The absence of such a vision, such an idea, such a strategy and insufficient will to act in the interests of the state in the past have made us vulnerable today. I and the members of my government don't want this to happen again. [[11.50 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, our government, in just 13 months of service to this country, has been able to remedy or at least alleviate the many problems that the Czech Republic has suffered. We have been able to deal with the challenges that no one could have imagined a year ago, so that the citizens of the Czech Republic feel the consequences of the crises and consequences of Russian aggression on Ukraine as little as possible. We help the weak. We will not let our citizens fall and we will offer help to those who have been driven out of their homes and often have been deprived of everything. We have taken the lead in supporting Ukraine's most extensive aid, a clear expression of our Western values and a sharp condemnation of the criminals who trample on them. And we have also led those countries that have promoted common rules to help citizens and companies in the field of energy prices, and in doing so, we have been able to maintain responsibility for the European Union. We have regularly found functional pan-European solutions that have gained universal recognition, and we have substantially corrected our reputation in Europe and have regained the respect of our allies overseas. All these extraordinary steps, all these measures had to be ensured in a situation where our resources were limited, our information was incomplete and when the position of the Czech Republic was unnecessarily weakened by short-sighted and selfish decisions from the past. Even so, we tried to prepare all our solutions responsibly, clearly and for the good of the Czech Republic and its citizens. We manage to respond to crises, we manage to dampen their speeches so that the citizens of the Czech Republic can reduce their comfort of life as little as possible, and at the same time we manage to implement reforms that better prepare us for the future, so that every other crisis can catch us more prepared and secure than it was this time. I do not deny the opposition her right to vote on distrust, but I submit, I have put before you a list of arguments which I believe every judge must take seriously. Our government is a good government. It's a government that helps people who help those who need it. It is a government that returns a good name to the Czech Republic. The name that belongs to her. And it is also a government that, despite all the problems, keeps its promises. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is why he deserves your trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you almost noon. Before I give another word with priority rights, I'll read the apology. Mr Jan Bureš apologizes from 10 to 17 o'clock for reasons of work, Mr Jiří Carbol apologizes until 18 o'clock for Crkvenjaš of work, Mr Staněk Klíma apologizes for reasons of health, Mr Tomáš Kohoutek apologizes for reasons of Zdeněk, Mr Ondřej Kolář apologizes from 13.45 to 15.15 for reasons of work, Mr Pavel Svoboda apologizes until 16 o'clock for reasons of work. I am registering several applications with priority rights before the debate is opened. Minister Vít Rakušan will be the first to speak and Minister Marian Jurečka will be prepared. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u8	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, fellow Members, honourable Members, we have had a very difficult year. The year 2022 was unprecedentedly difficult, there was no way to prepare for it, and those events that caught us as the Czech Republic were incomparable with what the entire European space actually experienced in the postwar history. And we did it. And now I'm not talking about the government of the Czech Republic. Now I'm talking about citizens of the Czech Republic. Now I'm talking about the whole Czech Republic, everyone involved. Let us highlight our country's achievements last year. All of us. In the hardest year we've ever seen in modern history. Let us not keep the pessimism and the bad mood that many in our society are spreading as part of the political struggle, taking a sense of success. Let's not let the success that the Czech Republic has behind us relativize it, let's not let anyone devalue it. We have shocked the whole of Europe by responding to the refugee crisis in Ukraine. The state in the middle of Europe, the Czech Republic, the long-term quartermaster and troublemaker, suddenly showed how responsible it can be. All of a sudden, we showed how sympathetic we can be. Suddenly our people in the Czech Republic, in a country that has always had a very distant attitude towards immigrants from anywhere, suddenly these people have opened their homes. We've basically accommodated half a million people here who came from Ukraine and fled the war. We did it. Our citizens did it, our mayors did it, our mayors did it, our captains did it, and the government of the Czech Republic, which created the system for it, which has a very good reputation throughout Europe and simply works. For many countries, we have served as an example of how to cope with this crisis. But we've done more than that. As part of the European Presidency, we have managed to unite Europe under the Czech Republic, unite Europe in access to Ukraine, access to aid that is effective, takes place on the ground, takes place in individual countries of the European Union, and we have even been able to transfer the focus of decision-making within European structures to the East. Central Europe, Eastern Europe, has shown that it is not the place of the quadrulants, but is where good and good decisions can be made that will help Europe as a whole. But this is only possible with high-quality leadership, not micromanagement, not chaos management, but a high-quality leadership that Petr Fiala demonstrated at the head of the government. And it may surprise you that the coalition partner praises his Prime Minister. It wasn't even customary here. You assumed as opposition that the five-calice would fall apart within six months, within three quarters of a year, within a year. She didn't fall apart. There will be 108 Members if they are not ill, who will express their confidence in the government of Petr Fiala, because the government has a high quality leadership. He has a man who doesn't replace leadership with arrogance, screaming, screaming, but he runs the government calmly, and we've all done it at the individual resorts at the time of our Presidency of the European Union. The Czech Republic has shown that it can be a leader. And real leadership just doesn't replace Instagram photos with one or the other politician. This is real work, it is real diplomacy when someone calls himself a diplomat, it is many hours of negotiations that lead to concrete results that the Czech Republic has greatly increased its reputation within the European Union. And we can be proud of that. This is a reason that citizens of the Czech Republic can be proud of. And I say again, let's not take our success. What the Czech Republic has done in the last year is something that we have basically failed in the last twenty-thirty years. We are a country that stands in the midst of the European Union's decision-making processes even when we no longer have a presidency. Our government is responsible for the people. We are trying to explain our steps, sometimes we are better off, sometimes we are worse off, but we are not arrogant to citizens, we are not accusing them of anything, and we are not even accusing our opposition of anything, that it calls a meeting of distrust to the government at a time when we are here to discuss many important matters. It's her right. It is her clear right, and our right as ministers of government and individual government Members is to defend our work. Defend her in public, because we certainly have nothing to be ashamed of. [[12.00 hours]] As far as the Ministry of the Interior is concerned, we need to be aware of the regime we operate in. We've been operating for years now, even under the former government, even under the current regime of the Central Crisis Staff. For that whole year there was one week when he did not sit: On February 14 we inaugurated the Central Crisis Staff, which was convened because of the covid crisis, on February 24 the war began and on February 25 we called the Central Crisis Staff again. I am merely showing you that from the point of view of the law we find ourselves in a crisis that needs to be dealt with for a very long time. And we're dealing with it systematically, and the first step we took at the Home Office was a revision of crisis management. At the time of the covid crisis, the Prime Minister here set up a Council of Government for Health Risks, which was in fact only responsible for him and supposing what is otherwise governed by the law, that is to say, a standard structure of crisis management. This has been brought into line, and I dare say, even in the omicron crisis, but it has also been shown to manage the Ukrainian crisis. It's not the minister's credit, it's the professionals who are doing crisis management in our state. That's what firefighters do, that's what cops do, that's what all the paramedics do. But our credit is that we honor that crisis management has its own system and that system cannot be replaced by micromanagement and chaos. Even here, there has been a significant change, and the results of the management of the entire crisis are in any case visible. At the Ministry of the Interior, we've restored the section for the public administration. We consider the Ministry of the Interior, in addition to the forces under it, to be a place that should serve self-government as a consultative place, self-governments that need to help and need a uniform and unambiguous position, and above all, that the Ministry of the Interior be able to help the regions as well. Because we must not forget the regions. We must not forget regions that are doing worse than other regions. Our country will overcome all types of other crises only when it is coherent and when we are able to support those regions that are less successful at this time for objective reasons. And, of course, those systemic steps of operation in the structure of the Ministry of the Interior are supposed to lead to that. We must be able to improve people's lives even in the outermost regions. Our government is not pragocentric. On the contrary, our government sees, thanks to the many municipal experience of members of the government, how they live in individual regions of the Czech Republic and that it is necessary to support the poorer regions for the future prosperity of the Czech Republic. Our government does not despise the countryside, on the contrary, it comes with many solutions that are designed against those large agroholdings that have long devastated our landscape and which do not actually treat the countryside as they deserve. Yes, all these steps have been taken by our government in that last year, and it will certainly continue to do so. The conditions for full living in regions are quality infrastructure, but they are not only roads and highways, but it is modern infrastructure, it is fast internet, it is of course quality education in regions. Therefore, such an accent on regional education. These are things that we know and know from our communities and we also promote from the government level so that in every corner of the Czech Republic it is possible to live well, so that individual regions in the Czech Republic are competitive. Of course, at the Ministry of the Interior, we also dealt logically with the components that belong to us. Police of the Czech Republic, the reform of long-term postponed specialised workplaces, which was finally established this year from 1 January, which deal with terrorism and cybercrime, that is, what according to all available crime statistics is starting to play an increasingly important role. Cybercrime is small tricks through all sorts of fraudulent e-shops, but also the enormous crime of all kinds of leaks when the state is losing large funds. Policemen, firefighters, we've increased our salaries to tariffs by 10 percent since January, and for beginners, it's even a percentage of 17, with internal changes in that table. For the first time, the starting salary of a police officer and a firefighter in the Czech Republic came to the value of starting with a threesome. We realize that, of course, this competitiveness here is very difficult in the labour market, but at least we have come up with a positive trend so that we can somehow make the police and firefighter position more attractive for young people and increase the recruitment rate in those years to come. That was a definite condition. For the first time in history, in that short modern-day history, the Fire Rescue Corps has achieved full fulfillment of its personnel status, full of the fullness of its spreadsheet plans set out in the personnel policy of the Fire Rescue Corps. We have managed to cope with the immigration crisis from countries like Syria, we have managed to deal with the influx of migrants from the Western Balkan route. We've taken a few steps to do this. One of them was very unpleasant and it was the introduction of checks on the Slovak-Czech border, but we stand by this step. It was the only way to reduce the hundreds of migrants who came to the Czech Republic sometime in September, or the Czech Republic, to the current situation where migrants were seized in units per day - not even lower tens, but in units per day. The measure was unpleasant, in any case it required many negotiations with the Slovak party, which responded by having common police patrols on the Slovak side of the border, there are no contradictions in the readmission return to the Czech Republic. We have protected the security of the population especially in the eastern part of our country, responded to the demand of the captains and mayors from this area and managed to manage the entire border protection successfully in cooperation with the Army of the Czech Republic and with Customs Administration. Of course, we are assessing this measure, but in any event we have a clear response that the citizens of the Czech Republic appreciate that the government has come up with a rapid and decisive response which has led to the security of our state border and has also led to the fact that the Czech-German border has not been closed, there have been no controls, although, of course, it has also threatened Germany for some time. This measure will be evaluated and we will certainly come up with a further description of the concrete measures to ensure the safety of this very border. Another success was our European negotiations on the Western Balkan migration path, where we achieved visa harmonisation between some countries of the Western Balkans and the countries of the European Union, leading to a clear effect that migrants are already declining on the European continent, because they cannot legally enter the countries of the Western Balkans. We have had a year in which we have managed the Ukrainian migration crisis, which we have managed in a very human, humane way. We have passed four laws within the framework of lex Ukraine, i.e. those legal standards that apply to Ukraine, so as to enable decent life for people and at the same time ensure the safety of the inhabitants of the Czech Republic. We are coming up with lex Ukraine 5, which will lay down rules of social assistance for the next period, rules for the accommodation of Ukrainian arrivals, and we have great assurance that these rules will be more stringent as regards the property test as regards the verification of individual applications and the like, while extending temporary protection for one year, which was also one of the objectives and results of the Czech Presidency in the Ministry of the Interior. From 1. 4. the system of arrival and organisation of all infrastructure will admit significant changes, but that will be the debate that awaits us. Even here, let's not let it be stolen, it was the story of the success of the Czech Republic. The story of success at regional level, at government level, the story of a great logistics event, and here, apart from the ones I mentioned, I have to thank the firefighters, I have to thank the police because they did a great job and it turns out that the Ministry of the Interior has a lot of great professionals. [[12.10 hours]] Another thing that we have devoted and which has been neglected for a long time, which the previous government has not responded to in essence at all, was the matter of the Czech Post. Several hundred people in middle management positions were released within the Czech Post. We were able to obtain so-called notification at European level, which means compensation for the service, which brought the mail 1.5 billion a year in its very problematic cash flow, which it has in recent years, because the response to the transformation of mail, which has been proposed by management over the last few years, has unfortunately been zero in recent years. Our government has the political will, and at the turn of January and February, it will go to the government with material that clearly describes and defines the transformation of the Czech Post. And here's a very important remark. Transformation does not mean privatisation. No one is going to privatize the Czech Post. And transformation doesn't mean less availability of postal services. But the post office itself must be more modern, it must be more flexible, it must have divided activities into those that are ordered by the state and the state expects to pay them, and then the activities that can generate profit, it is logistics, it is package services and many other additional services that have commercial potential to earn themselves. But that step needs to be taken. And that is the political responsibility that this government has, even though it realizes that this debate will be difficult. The last government, although the post office position is critical in all indicators, has done nothing for the past five years. Even the post office did not provide guaranteed funds for its operation and the post office had to borrow on a commercial market under very unfavourable conditions. This has to end, and our government is, of course, ready for it. All arguments to the Czech Post will not stand because the objective fact that the past government or the previous two governments have allowed the Czech Post to enter into a state in which it is currently, is simply an objective and completely undisputed fact. We have done extensive legislative work. In addition to the lex Ukraine, we have amended the law on free access to information. Again, the rest left to us by the last government. In August 2022, we were even threatened with a fine from the European Commission because it was not implemented about a year after the deadline expired. We have extended the obligation to provide information to public undertakings such as ČEZ. In any event, our proposed standard was a way of transparency. At the same time, we approve the law against the spread of terrorist content online. Many say it's some kind of shut down - there's no shut down of the website, there's no switching off, no censoring, only the Police of the Czech Republic at a time when it's some kind of terrorist attack, has the opportunity to respond. And I have to get back to what Madam President Schillerová said, because neither her colleagues nor her colleagues have prepared her properly. An action plan to combat misinformation is not prepared by the Ministry of Interior. [[syllables:]] The material doesn't come from the Home Office. The Ministry of the Interior is one of the other departments. We give our comments on this. The action plan is under the Office of the Government, Mr Klíma's agent, not the Ministry of the Interior. We're just a reminder point. And that only discussed law about shutting down websites, as it says here, and some censorship - so my first question is, please, nicely, who and how did this government censor anything from that year of our activity? What have we ever censored? What opinion did we forbid? What have we turned off, what have we closed and all that? The law that is being prepared - and by the way, it is not finished at all and passes through this legitimate political debate here, it belongs, in the Chamber of Deputies and in the Senate, and you will be able to comment on it in committees, we are discussing it with the academic sphere, we are discussing it with the non-profit sector, it is simply something that we are not ashamed of, with transparent organisations, so the law has only one purpose: if there is an online presence of information that directly threatens the security of the Czech Republic or some group of residents, maybe someone will report an attack on a certain parliamentary group or on any resident or group of residents in the Czech Republic within some prejudiced hatred, and so on, at that moment, the right of intervention on the basis of the recommendations of the security community is someone to whom that competence will be entrusted. And the Home Office is definitely not fighting over her. If we go through the Slovak road, we have something like the NBU, the National Security Bureau, just an office that will accommodate other security files at the time, and respond to a security threat. Nobody deletes any websites or shuts down where somebody's lying. That's nonsense, misinterpretation. I know that in public space lies and lies will always be, some politicians even lie in the campaign, some politicians lie at their first press conference they have. But there's no way anyone's gonna prosecute, delete, close. The law has one purpose - the threat to national security and the possibility of responding to it. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That's not even in this law. You're talking about something you don't know about, you're confusing the Action Plan against Disinformation that doesn't create the Ministry of the Interior, and then there's some bill that's supposed to shut down the site when national security is compromised. Never again. Not because of misinformation. Not to spread a lie. Nobody wants that kind of legal authority because we'd be crazy and crazy. We only want to strengthen the security of the Czech Republic in cyberspace, not to fight against the fact that some people have decided to lie. Another amendment to the law that we are presenting is the Act on the Administration of Elections. We propose a one-day vote, the creation of an election database, easier access to voting cards. The amendment to the Act on Association in Political Parties, for which, among other things, in conjunction with other legal standards, the Reconstruction of the State as a Ministry has contributed to transparency, is already in third reading. The amendment to the Illustration Act, so that those who collaborated with the very repressive force that the StB certainly was, simply could not be in ministerial functions, premier functions, deputy positions at ministries. We consider this to be right, and we think that the time when it should simply be universally forgiven to all those who have been reporting to their neighbors, colleagues who have provided intelligence about their loved ones or neighbors, so those people should simply not be in public office. And if the rendering law applies to officials, why shouldn't it apply to ministers and deputy ministers? At the same time, we are abolishing 10,000 obsolent legislation, which has swayed our legal order, and we are fulfilling our programming declaration, clarifying the rule of law. By the way, it's already in the House at first reading. We've canceled the obligation of data boxes for non-business individuals. This, I think, is a step that, at the moment we are going through various types of crises, has greatly helped a group of people at risk and has certainly been appreciated by the public as well. We are preparing a law on the entry and residence of foreigners, as well as a new law on weapons, the Act on ammunition, the Act on the service of security forces. Here, let me say one thing. No one in the bill does not touch on the debts, that is not at all addressed in this law and it is once again a popular rumor that many spread. At the same time, we are preparing a big amendment to the Service Act, a comprehensive solution to modernization of state administration and access to public administration for people who have some expert level, but they did not meet the conditions that the obsolete and unmodern Service Act gave as a duty in previous years. [[12.20 hours]] We're reviewing crisis legislation. Here we have a direct indication that this will take place at the latest at the turn of 2023 - 2024, in any case it will also be presented to the Members and Members. We want to be ready for modern crises. We want to be ready for epidemic threats, blackouts, ready for pandemic threats, ready for migration crises, and we want every mayor and every mayor in the Republic to have a short checklist of duties that they have to do in this crisis, who they can turn to, and how they can help their citizens quickly and effectively. This is a modern crisis legislation, which, of course, is undergoing a broad review procedure, but it is also a commitment from our government statement. We are also preparing a new law on municipalities, possible formation of communities and their legal personality, which leads us to the fact that we do not need to disturb and liquidate small municipalities within the Czech Republic. That's our tradition. Small municipalities belong to the Czech countryside and the Czech Republic, but if they can create communities with clear legal support, community cooperation, sharing of official capacities and so on, that is the goal we want to go to. At the same time, we have implemented a number of investment events, which I will not read here one by one, but I will definitely respond to the debate, because I assume that opposition experts here will certainly express themselves on the security issue, and the response certainly deserves it. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, let me say one thing. The Czech Republic has something to be proud of. The Czech Republic has had many successes and I would also like to thank the citizens of the Czech Republic for their ability to manage the crisis year. I realize that there are enormous demands on them that the situation within rising prices, inflation, the energy crisis is very difficult. I guarantee you that the Government of the Czech Republic has helped and will help all to overcome this crisis, which is why the Government of the Czech Republic is here, so it has come up with a few clearly targeted projects such as Deštník against expensive and various helping measures to draw on state aid. The Government of the Czech Republic realizes that Czech citizens are of course in the first place and therefore help them. But this government is a government of values, it is a government that, at the moment, when there is an aggressor who destroys the sovereignty of one other state, it will not appear that there is no need to help, that there is no need to help at that time, even at the expense of its own comfort, as our people have demonstrated, who have been able to accept refugees coming from Ukraine. They were mostly mothers with children. And I am proud that our government has values, that it is not a government of moral relativization, but a government that is able to implement the Czech Republic through a severe crisis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u9	Thank you, Minister. I'll read the apologies. First of all, Mr Lubomír Brož, from 10.30 to 12.30 and subsequently from 15.30, Mr Michaela Opltová apologizes for working reasons. For health reasons, Mr Milan Wenzl apologizes for the whole day. . [[Mrs Mračková signals]] I hear you, Madame, that you are reporting for the floor, but we are out of the debate. [[Mrs Mračková off the microphone: It doesn't matter, but I have something within...]] This means that at this point, it is not possible to make any comments, any factual remarks, merely to object to the President's procedure... [[Mrs Mračková off the microphone: I want it.]] because I have applications here with priority rights registered before the debate is opened. [[Mrs Mračková off the microphone: I would like to object.]] You wish to object to the President's procedure. Okay. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u10	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I, because at this moment Vít Rakušan, the Minister of the Interior, was speaking, so I tried, or, respectively, despite our President, I tried to push because I think that negotiations on distrust of the government are very important, and we would like to respond to the speeches of individual ministers. Unfortunately, it is clearly stated in the Rules of Procedure that, when it comes to mistrust of the Government, after the debate, a vote will be taken by name. And I do not understand, or I would like to call on you to open the debate. If you do not do so, I will, of course, allow myself to object to the President's procedure, because I simply consider it fair and democratic so that I can address the previous speaker... Or who's talking here so I can respond to him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u11	Okay. So I'll say the following procedure, and if you want to object to my progress, then do so. I am registering and registering several applications with priority rights before the debate is opened, that is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and these people will be given the floor as they have signed up. Then the debate will be opened, and there I also register several applications with priority rights, but subsequently, by opening the debate, it is possible to report after the speeches with a factual remark and to respond within the framework of the debate. This means that at this point I will proceed so that the word gets the way the applications are, first Marian Jurečka, then Minister Vlastimil Válek and others. These applications are registered, including adoption, in terms of time, and after we have gone over the applications with priority rights before the debate is opened, we will proceed as I said. If you object to my procedure, please speak on the microphone, and I will then vote on it. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u12	Mr Vice-President, I am, of course, sorry for your progress, because it is about you, you can open this debate at any time, it is in the hands of the person who is in charge of the meeting. And if I really read in the Rules of Procedure that, after the debate, a vote will be taken by name, I believe that all 200 Members are entitled to respond to those speakers who speak here and that the debate should be opened. I understand that it should be opened, for example, after the Prime Minister's speech or the appearance of the petitioner, who submitted a distrust speech to the government, which is our President of the club, but then I think that he should have the opportunity to respond to all 200 Members. So, at this point, I would like to object to the procedure, because even in the Rules of Procedure, it is clearly stated that after the debate, there is a meeting at the chair when it opens the debate, and I have asked you to open it at this time, because I would like to respond to the Minister of the Interior of Vít Rakušan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u13	Very well, Madame. I am registering your objection to my procedure, although I must state here that, as the former Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, I would expect more knowledge of the Rules of Procedure, because... [[Let's hear it from the right.]] Priority rights are not a tearing calendar, and I simply cannot give and open a debate as I see fit. There are just priority rights that are clearly defined by my application, and I have to respect that. In any case, there has been an objection to the President's procedure. I'm registering a request for your check-out, and I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your cards. I'll wait until the numbers are stable... That's right. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour and agrees with the opposition to the President's procedure, to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? It is a vote with order number 2, 118 Members and Members registered, for proposal 54, against 64. The opposition was not agreed and we will proceed as I announced. I will now ask for the speech of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Marian Jurečka, then he will be prepared with priority rights, with priority application, also the Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u14	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, colleagues, I wish you good afternoon. I must begin with a brief response to what was just said here by Mrs Mračková Mrs. I have been involved as a Member for the past nine years in many of the votes and negotiations to voice distrust to the Government, but it has always been followed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, where the logic of the Rules of Procedure dictates that there is a possibility of having preferential rights. At the moment when they are exhausted, then the negotiations themselves and the general debate, when it is possible to react and can be reacted in the form of technical ones. That is simply not possible in this case. And I, as a Member, have made clear in the past use of the Rules of Procedure that I simply submitted an application in time for a debate, at the time when I had the right of priority, so that I would be placed in that order of priority rights. So it was also possible for colleagues who had these priority rights from the point of view of the opposition. It's a shame, of course, that one of your colleagues here, who has the right of priority, at the time of his work, jumped into line for crown jewels, which I presume he had seen as Prime Minister in the past. This is not an option for most citizens of this country who today are fulfilling their standard work obligations, doctors, teachers, workers, all other professions of people who are normally at work and cannot, in their working hours, go to the crown jewels in fulfilling their standard work obligations. I think it's a mockery not only to this House here, and disrespect for the seriousness of this action, but it's also a mockery to all the people who normally went to work today, doing their duty properly. However, now the contents of the meeting today. Here, at the outset, was the Prime Minister of the ANO MEP, Mrs Schillerová, who gave a certain list of the criticisms that she had expressed, from her point of view and from the point of view, I suppose, in particular, the members of the ANO movement towards our government, against the five coalition government, the government of Petr Fiala. And I will allow myself to respond to these particular complaints for the departments for which I am responsible. To begin with, we are in a situation that is most complicated, most complex since the end of World War II. Our government started at a time when the previous government here unsuccessfully, chaoticly struggled with the covid when we came from the lockdown to the lockdown. And we made it clear at the time that we were going to do everything we could to make sure that the next lockdowns, the other school closures, didn't happen to further restrictions on schooling, so that we would do things that have a head and a heel that are thought out. When we joined the government and the government coalition, we left the Christmas season, the start of a new year without a lockdown. We said, there are steps to be followed. We have clear instructions on how to protect vulnerable populations. And that's what we followed. And this was true of the whole first quarter, when we were actually in a situation where the whole Covid-19 pandemic in the Czech Republic gradually disappeared. And I must say that, in fact, the first 14 days at the end of that year 2021, I, as Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, have also submitted concrete legislative proposals that the Government has discussed and immediately discussed this Chamber of Deputies at the beginning of January 2022. This was the first moment when we had already responded to a negative development situation with regard to vulnerable groups of citizens as regards the ability to pay for rising housing costs. During January, we amended the Act on State Social Support so that we could increase the so-called normalities so that we could respond flexibly over the course of the year. And that was a state known since September 2021. And the then ending government did nothing about it. She's redeployed government orders that couldn't practically help these people at all. So, during January, we managed to make this particular adjustment here, which gave tens of thousands of people a chance to cope with the upcoming crisis, high energy prices that came next. That was the first moment we made. During January, we also froze the salaries of constitutional officials, judges and prosecutors during three weeks for 2022, in order to be to some extent solidarity with the company that dealt with the consequences of the covid. Two years these salaries have been frozen. However, then came the period that meant the arrival of Putinův's troops in Ukraine, and logically, the result of the increase in the refugee crisis, which began here immediately. Within four days, war refugees began to arrive in the territory of the Czech Republic. Vítek Rakušan here described the steps taken by the Ministry of the Interior in cooperation with the regions, with municipalities, with NGOs, with volunteers. All of these include a great deal of respect and gratitude. And practically immediately, households and individuals joined. The Czech Republic and our society have shown that the values that are spoken of so often, and in times of peace and times of non-crisis, are not always the values that would be subjected to the particular test, so at this point our society knew whose side it was on, who needed to be helped, and immediately the aid started to run, whether organized or even at the lowest levels of households completely spontaneously. As the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, we responded by starting solidarity support for households immediately during April - the so-called social benefit within the solidarity household. Thus, we have clearly given Czech households, natural persons, financial support for those who accommodate war refugees to support their solidarity. This benefit was fully digitized for the first time in the existence of the social system of the Czech Republic. We did it in three weeks. Instantly, we also started the humanitarian supply so that people who came here without funds, without a home, with little children, people old, people sick, could get some basic existential certainty from us. We started a humanitarian dose that proved its purpose and showed that those people used it most in May, June, July. But then this support started to fall, because even the number of applications started to decrease with how these people managed to find work, they were able to participate in the Czech labour market. And I will remind you that since the beginning of this war in Ukraine, more than 171 000 war refugees from Ukraine have been involved in the Czech labour market. We are a country that has not only been able to provide security and solidarity, in the conversion of the people who came to us, we are a country in the first place from the point of view of war refugees converted into the population, but we also have the highest share of people who came from Ukraine and started working on our labour market. Now it's over 90,000 people, because part of those people left. But let's remember that last year alone in the public health insurance system, these people were working, working, so they took over CZK 4 billion. If we count on the total contributions, that amount will be somewhere somewhere today over CZK 8 billion. These people help the performance of the Czech economy, help companies, of course help themselves and their loved ones, but also contribute to public health insurance systems. And the balance sheet is positive. We didn't provide that much health care that would be exhausted to help them. I am saying this on purpose - not that I am happy about it, not that it is something we are supposed to put on some pedestal here, but because when I hear the reactions of some opposition politicians, as they say it helps at the expense of Czech citizens, I am just saying that Ukrainian working citizens are helping all citizens who work in the Czech Republic, all those who receive health assistance. They're solidarity, too. So we don't forget this. We also responded within the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to rising housing costs, to the effects of inflation, to increases in energy prices. This means, in addition to the measures that have been in place since the beginning of this year, when the government has imposed electricity prices, gas for households, for the public sector, small, medium and large companies, so we have also set up a system of assistance, a housing contribution that we have parameterized during last year. And it gives the basic guarantee that households will not pay more than 30 percent of that household's income on housing costs. Yes, up to normal. And the standard is set very high today, that is, about 85 percent of applicants for this form of assistance, which is tested, which is monitored in terms of documented costs and revenues, so 85 percent of these applicants really get support at an adequate amount of extra costs. The ceiling is there so that there is no immediate start-up above all rent prices. [[12.40 hours]] If we look at the statistical data, I think it's clear. In December 2022 227 000 contributions were paid to these households. In December 2021, it was 154,000. The increase is really significant here. And the total number of applications for 2022 was 332 000 applications. In 2021, it was 233,000 applications. That means the increase in supported households is roughly 100,000. I'm not saying this because we should be chasing numbers here and saying how many people have received a housing allowance, but I'm saying this as an illustration of the fact that we've modified the conditions of help, that we've made it available here, we've also been able to allow applications for this online application, and that the state is here from the fact that when a crisis situation like a flood comes, such as a tornado, such as a fire, such as the effects of a war in the form of unstable energy markets and a period when electricity and gas prices fly so high in the short term, that the state is here because it can help people overcome and cope with the situation. And I have to say, we've done quite a bit of work on this. Yes, I am also aware of a situation that is still not 100%. We out of 1.7 million of our clients at the employment offices who come monthly and ask for some form of social support, whether it be parent's, child's allowance, housing allowance, and others, so 98 percent of these applicants pay money in time and within legal deadlines. Yes, the 2 per cent are the ones that personally mean for me to make some changes and adjustments in those Labor Office processes so that we can get this 2 per cent that we have after a period of time into those legal deadlines and pay those people money in time. I am not pleased, but I also took over the employment offices in a situation where they had more than 450 vacant seats in the civil service. And this vacancy was here a few years before I joined. I took over the employment offices in a situation where there wasn't actually anything done in the digitalisation area. All we heard about in connection with digitization at the employment offices were scandals. Untethered selection procedures and collapsing IT systems. That's what we're trying to change with the tight team of people who came to the Department of Labour and Social Affairs today. We're taking steps in digitization. Let me just remind you: the solidarity dose was the first humanitarian dose fully in digital. Today, 90 percent of the requests for humanitarian benefits are digital. Then we have an encore for a child, a parent, and a living allowance. These are all the things we digitized in about five months. Why didn't it happen sooner? That should be answered by the people who led the Department of Labour and Social Affairs years before me. During last year, as a government, we have also taken steps to help vulnerable populations. Three times in the last 12 months, the life and existential minimum has increased. I will remind you: in April 2022 it was 10 percent, from July 2022 it was 8.8%, and now from January 2023 the increase was 5.2 %. We responded to rising inflation, where this increase in the life and existential minimum is not only reflected in the valorisation of some benefits of state social support or material emergency, but also extends the range of potential applicants who can then apply for such support and can draw on it. And we've taken steps that weren't usual in the past, when the state would behave cliently, and that's that, for example, in the case of child supplements, we've seen from the data we had, that there are households, that there are parents who would be entitled to this support, but they haven't filed the application. So we texted them that they had this opportunity to make that move. Because it's just not about giving, but it's about helping people, helping families, parents, helping children. And it turns out your parents responded to that. And then I'll remind you, the government also took the next step in the aid, and that was the extraordinary 5,000-dollar support that came at the turn of the end of the holidays and the beginning of the school year, when the clear majority, about 95 percent of the parents, declared that this assistance was important to them with the start of the school year. That it was the money they could use to get their kids to school, to get their kids to kindergarten, to just make sure they could buy their things in their teeth or their rings. So we've been trying to really monitor which vulnerable groups need help and to what extent, and respond adequately to that. In autumn, aid came in the field of the package, which aimed at people with disabilities. It was a package that not only increased the contribution to mobility, but he modified it when we now remember people who are dependent on energy-intensive devices, such as oxygen generators and the like, so that this contribution increased to that amount for the basic mobility, but it is also increased for those people who need this support and have those energy-intensive devices. It has been discussed for years, it has been realized now in the autumn of this year, and from 1 January of this year there are some things that apply to higher support for people who need to adjust the house at home because someone from that household has become immobile in order to buy a platform, adjust the lifting equipment to the stairs. [[last year]] We have also made adjustments and an increase in the contribution to the special aid so that people with disabilities can get these special aids, because they have also shown price increases. So these are the steps that took place really last year. And it was mentioned here in the form of what President Schillerová said - helping the elderly. Yes, it took place here on the basis of legal valorization, and I'm the one who always said it was here. And this valorization has greatly helped ensure that our seniors maintain their standard of living, because they deserve it. But it is also fair to say that, as a government, we inherited a budget that did not count on it. We had to find these funds; unfortunately, these funds had to be allocated at the price of the debt increase. But it simply cannot be said to the government that it has a deficit last year, and also to unfairly tell citizens that it is linked to spending, which we had to do for legal reasons, or for reasons that have brought about by war, high energy prices, high inflation. The money was largely really aimed at supporting people, households. And that's the way it's supposed to be in these crisis situations. But what is already a matter that was not obvious is the question of education, which is now effective from 1 January 2023, and the seniors, especially the mothers who raised us, the productive generation, so for the first time in the history of this state receive this form of appreciation. Even for raising children to give up part of their careers for investing a huge part of their lives in them. And it's a subject that has been rejected here in the House for a long time. I remember repeatedly proposing it in 2018, I personally, Pavel Bělobrádek, Marek Výborný, Pavla Golasowská, and I remember many votes, when the YES movement and social democracy swept it off the table. Yes, thanks to the support of virtually all parties across the entire political spectrum at the end of the election period of 2021. On the suggestion of Roman Sklenák, let's be fair and fair. But it was the folklore who went over it for years and said it was important that the Czech pension system, if it was to be sustainable, should be preserved and incorporated in the principle of solidarity and responsibility, which appreciates the upbringing of children. We cannot live in a system that only appreciates the only merit, that it is what a person earns during a productive life period, but also how much he invests in a future generation, which is the basis for the functioning not only of the ongoing pension system but also of the health insurance system, for the functioning of the entire society. To make the labour market work and so forth. It just doesn't have a future without kids. Anyone, not just the Czech Republic. [[12.50 hours]] So when we look at this from the perspective of the measures that this government has taken and is doing, we are trying very well to balance between the needs for vulnerable groups, the responsibility for spending the state budget, and also what the opposition is saying here, which is coming in their proposals and would actually give away the state budget completely. I must say that the opposition should clarify what it wants. If you walk and say, hand out here in the measures that Andrej Babiš proposed last year and presented them with more than one trillion crowns - one trillion crowns - that was the proposal for the many measures that Andrej Babiš had taken, then they began to cross it out, and colleagues began to find out that it was not quite real and rational - and between what the deficit should be and what consolidation of public finances should be. We're trying to track both. It is not a simple debate, it is not a popular debate either, but we are really trying to make these steps balanced, to be responsible for future and future deficits, which may be here at this time of crisis, unprecedented times of crisis, with regret, but with the need to be implemented. I will now get to the steps we are planning in 2023 from the situation of last year and the beginning of this year. In such a vote, I think it is important that MEPs, whether from the government or from the opposition camp, also see a view. So I have to say that it is very important for me to also make key changes in social and family policy. I'm just gonna say this in quick reflections. It's important to me that we have a culture of life, not a culture of death. This means allowing care and assistance in the home environment to the maximum extent possible. So that people can have their loved ones at home, so that we can adapt to the social system settings. So that there's enough capacity for this support. And that is what we are working on from the perspective of legislative changes and from the point of view of funding. I think how many people die in hospitals today is an undignified society of the 21st century. On the other hand, I understand a large number of families who haven't actually had the right conditions to have their dad, mom, grandpa, grandma at home and to accompany him from this world in the home family circle. And that's what we're working on, that's what's important to me. This is important for this government coalition. That, again, is the question of value policy in practice. When I look at, say, the issue of family care, the issue of the OSPODs, we have big debts from the past because virtually nothing has been done in this area. And here, in simple terms, it is important for me to take such steps within this government coalition so that as many children as possible can remain in families. To provide as many children as possible with foster family care and as few children as possible with institutional care. A clear logical step, but again, we are preparing legislative changes, preparing changes in terms of funding. And here I'll just remind you that during the first half of last year, we fixed the thing that happened here at the initiative of some of the members of the current opposition, when two categories of foster parents were created here, and that one had a situation where suddenly a significant part of their financial support was reduced, and I had hundreds of foster parents writing to me and saying, Mr. Minister, how did we get this? Why did Mr Juchelka's proposal put us in this situation? We're responsible here for these kids that we may have taken from the kangaroo, and, yes, it wasn't mediated through the county office, but why are we second-class foster parents? We also corrected this injustice during the first six months of 2022. These are important changes that we are preparing and which I think are important for the functioning of our society. In fact, they are also important for reducing costs, because today a child in institutional care costs us from approximately CZK 50 to CZK 120,000 a month. So it's not only about the environment we're able to give the child in terms of education, it's about how much we're not exactly ideal for education - and I'm not saying that they're not aunts who leave their hearts and do great work, but we can't say it about the whole system, so we have to realize how much it costs us even after the financial side. We have a pension reform ahead of us. I am counting on the fact that during February I will discuss the proposals in terms of parameters and impacts with all as government parties, as well as the opposition, so that during the first quarter we can then move towards an agreement and procedure on the preparation of a specific paragrafo version. In general, the public says it's a long-term subject, but we can't put it off any longer. It won't always be completely easy in all areas, it won't be completely popular, but we just have to get into this complex topic and move it to sustainability for us, for the future generation, because if we did nothing, the generation of Husákův's children would have extremely low pensions. I will just briefly mention the steps that have been taken on the Ministry of Environment in the time that I have left. Let me just remind you, with the accession of our government, we had an unfinished business here from last year's government, and that was a dispute with the Polish party and a deal to the Turów mine. And Minister Hubáčková and the Prime Minister and other members of the government, such as the Minister of Foreign Affairs, have been actively involved. There have been repeated negotiations, repeated communication with our counterparts on the Polish side and a deal has been found. An agreement that I think is the basis for people in the Frýdlant region to have enough water in the future, enough water supply to protect underground resources, so that lower water levels no longer fall, to address emissions both in the field of air pollution, but also the light ones, as well as the noise ones. All of this is in the agreement today and we are leveling those relationships so that we are really able to enforce this right for Czech citizens. That's what's happening. I am also passing on the benefit that there are also funds paid by the Polish party to the Liberec Region, which will invest these funds in the development of water infrastructure. Then further steps were taken to announce the new national park Křivoklátsko, which is one of the important priorities of this government in order to expand the areas of protected areas in the Czech Republic. There was also full activity under New Green Savings. And here I want to thank you fairly, I think that Richard Brabec has done a great deal of work in that both the Fund and New Green Savings work very well, efficiently, rationally, and Minister Hubáčková and her team have followed up on these steps and expanded the instruments. There was a conflict in Ukraine, an increase in energy prices, and immediately during April, support was targeted to support domestic heat pumps. During the fall, we started the New Green Savings Light, which helps people with low incomes, so that they could heat up simply, without unnecessary bureaucracy, change windows and doors. The adjusted support for boiler subsidies was under way, taking into account low-income households. These are all important things for our citizens in a time of energy crisis. It is a specific aid and it is a long-term aid. I am a supporter of not permanently contributing to housing and social support for people who have their homes or apartments, but to give these people the chance to take technical measures to warm up, change windows, install photovoltaics, heat pumps, ideally independent. They will ideally be those who will not need any state social support in the future. These are the rational steps that we, like Petr Fiala's government, are doing to the government of these five coalition parties, and we are releasing the funds and all the necessary capacities needed to do so. We have also responded with increased support for food banks, because their activities are important. Food banks were the ones that helped supply KACPU, as well as those who received emergency accommodation. The Ministry of Agriculture, the Environment and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs have made funds available for this. [[Ministry]] And it is a specific form of support not only for war refugees who came from Ukraine, but also a specific form of support for Czech vulnerable households, such as singles, singles and other vulnerable groups. Finally, I also want to underline that the Czech Republic, thanks to the work of this government, our Prime Minister, is regaining respect in Europe in the world. Our partners are listening to us again. Foreign policy isn't about how many people you have a phone number and how many people you took your picture with. A successful foreign policy is about how many people listen to you and how many people are willing to understand your priorities and accept them, and that is, I think, the difference in not understanding how foreign policy is understood by Andrej Babiš, who sees it as who he takes pictures with, who he has a mobile phone, and when we look at his results in the success of foreign policy, his and the current Prime Minister of the current government, they are two incomparable worlds. Finally, people in the world see the Czech government as a Czech government that really knows how to defend their own interests, can look for compromises and demonstrate competence in difficult times to manage Europe, manage individual councils, and I think that this is something that is important for Czech citizens too, when they also travel abroad, so they hear the appreciation of how the Czech Republic, the Czech society, was able to maintain itself in this difficult time, that is to show that we are not just talking about values, but we can also live really. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u15	Thank you, Minister. I'll read the apologies. Today, from 12.45 to 18.30 for work reasons, Mr Jan Berki apologizes and from 17 a.m. to 9 a.m. tomorrow morning, for work reasons, Mrs Milada Voborská apologises. Another with priority rights is the Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek, but since it is 13 o'clock, under the agreement of the club presidents, I am interrupting negotiations by 14.30 o'clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, I greet you after your lunch break and we will continue our negotiations. Before I give the floor to Minister Válek, I'll read the apologies. Horák Jiří apologizes from 14:30 to 15:30 - personal reasons, Lacina Jan from 13:00 to 18:00 - working reasons, Lochman Ondřej from 14:30 - working reasons, Oulehlová Renata from 14:30 - working reasons and Potůčková Lucie from 14:45 - working reasons. [[Ambassador Foldyna off the mic: Can there be a meeting when we're 57?]] If we don't vote, Mr. Ambassador, we can discuss it. [[Member of Foldyna off the microphone: even in two, perhaps? Minister Válek off the microphone from the government bench: Two at least.]] Mr. Ambassador, to keep this quiet, we will give the floor to Minister Válek, who has applied for the floor with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u17	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the government, I come before you almost exactly a year after our government has gained confidence. In the last 12 months, YES has tried to voice distrust for our government for the second time. In both cases, the strategy of the Andrej Babiš movement was the same; Let the flood come after us. Therefore, I cannot rid myself of the impression that the convocation of House meetings to voice distrust to the government is governed only by the calendar of the owner of the YES Andrej Babiš and his business-political interests. I guess I don't have to remind anyone that there's only two weeks left until the second round of the presidential election. Let me make a little comment. The Czech Republic in 2023 and in the years that await us, does not need chao, which seeks inspiration in Trump and Bolsonar, but needs a statesman in his head. After all, it was the US and Brazilian ex-president who fanatized their supporters with their hateful and divisive rhetoric so much that after the failed elections, they attacked the parliaments of their countries. The Čech don't want anything like that. I didn't really understand the words we heard from Andrej Babiš. First, he promised reconciliation and diplomacy to come up with a gallant manifestation of an evil and disheartened cynic. In a desperate attempt to win the election at all costs, he resorted to the worst lies, slanders, and half-truths to disgust all those who want to vote for his opponent. And to the extent that the Vice-President of his own movement is considering leaving the YES. [[Unconscionable noise in the left side of the meeting room.]] I wouldn't dare tell anyone who to vote for, but the ditches that Andrej Babiš is sinking in society today are at least as deep as those dug up by current President Zeman. I would venture to say that the Czech Republic is much better than Zemanův's ten-year-old. Therefore, in the following words, I will forget why he wants to overthrow the government today, and I will take that as an opportunity. An opportunity to inform you about what we have succeeded in the Ministry in the last year and outline the plans of the Ministry of Health for the following year. I will also bring to the right some of the mystifications that have been made here or in the media space and have not been - diplomatically speaking - exactly accurate. After all, a year from gaining confidence is an ideal opportunity to recapitulate and file accounts. Now to the activities of the Ministry of Health itself after 13 months since the start of this government. The topic that currently has the highest priority is to address the lack of certain medicinal products. This is a problem facing the whole of Europe, and Prime Minister Fiala outlined the scope of this problem in his speech. I have an update for you. Nearly half a million packages of antibiotics in different groups and lots arrive in the Czech Republic during January and February thanks to negotiations with manufacturers, distributors. Let me describe the situation. I'll start with the causes. There's been mention of causes, but I'll take the liberty of repeating it. In particular, there is some confusion among some Members about what has led to the current situation and whether the Ministry of Health could have done more with it than it currently does. The whole situation is influenced by a combination of several factors. The first is a significantly higher disease among citizens by common respiratory and flu diseases than in 2020, 2021, in 2019. This has been accompanied by production problems. For a number of medicines, some of their components or packaging material are missing. Of course, covid-19 also has an impact, especially in China, which has disrupted supply chains, especially from Southeast Asia, leading to a shortage throughout Europe. But the shortage is basically global. Of course, insufficient planning of producers did not help either. They usually plan their production in advance for six to 18 months, but apparently all the paramedics in this room know that. Since disease was significantly lower in the covido years by common respiratory diseases, manufacturers were unable to prepare themselves for the period when we take down the respirators, release measures and return to the previous situation, that is, when a strong wave of common diseases comes at the turn of the year, this time multiplied by the previous weaker years. The Ministry of Health has very limited legal scope to prevent such situations. That, by the way, is one of the legacy of previous governments or previous governments that has done nothing about it. I, on the other hand, started to prepare an amendment to the Act on Medicines - and it is necessary to thank the Chamber of Deputies, the Senate and, after all, the President of the Czech Republic for signing it very quickly and approving it very quickly - which enabled us to ensure extraordinary supplies of medicines and, above all, to determine their health insurance. These two steps that I can import on the basis of my amendment approved by the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate for extraordinary drug imports from 1 December last year and determine their remuneration are very powerful instruments which none of my predecessors had. And I used them right away. For the first time on January 1st for the tablets for the treatment of covid and the next time for antibiotics and other groups. Those preparations could not have previously been paid when prescribed for a prescription because the standard mechanisms did not allow it. We've changed that. I will go to the government tomorrow with another request for payment, for antibiotics that we have managed to provide for our patients from other countries of the European Union, and I will continue this every week, every Wednesday, every government. [[14.40 hours]] The Nurofen baby syrup has been and is unfortunately due to the unnecessary panic of people who have often developed on the basis of media hysteria in many respects. On the basis of this, it has led to an excess supply, which, on the contrary, has caused Nurofen to fail to reach some of the needy, even though we provided practically quarterly - quarterly - before Christmas! - consumption. Before Christmas Day, 340 000 packages arrived in the Czech Republic. That's the amount that, even though it was the biggest wave of influenza epidemics, was enough for a quarter of a year. For a quarter of a year! I add that in 2022 many more medicines arrived in the Czech Republic to treat respiratory diseases than in 2020 and 2021. We had small stocks, low consumption, so we were unable to detect increased demand at the end of 2022. But it's all going well and it's going to work out. Now, about what the Department of Health can do and do about it. In December a working group under the direction of Deputy Minister Jakub Dvořáček was established. It is composed of representatives of the Ministry of Health, the State Institute for Drug Control, the Czech Pharmacy Chamber and the large distributors of medicines. This group monitors the situation and communicates regularly with pharmacists, practitioners and pediatricians about missing medicines and their available alternatives. We also discuss the current situation and possibilities with manufacturers and distributors every day. Both Deputy Dvořáček and this group act, so do I personally. Before Christmas and between the holidays, I dealt with various distributors and producers virtually all over Europe. Many of these negotiations are successful and have led either to the provision of emergency supplies or at least to the speed up of the planned ones. We also published a call for drug distributors to ensure the supply of antibiotics to patients in the Czech Republic in those groups of antibiotics where the impending deficiency was identified during the month of February. The first offers are already being made and we expect more and we will go again using the law passed last year by the Chamber of Deputies, which will allow me to approve these imports and to set a remuneration by the government. I guarantee you that we will use all the possibilities to provide enough medicines for the Czech market, although it is necessary to stress that the Ministry of Health has minimal scope for intervention in the case of free-market medicines. We can only appeal to the responsible behaviour of citizens and not to the creation of supplies. Given the pan-European dimension of the problem, we are also dealing with representatives of the Swedish Presidency and the European Asylum and Response Office in relation to health emergencies, namely the body called HERA. One possible solution at European Union level, for example, is the joint purchase of medicines, which gives Member States better room to act. It is something that we have advocated during our Presidency and will continue to promote. I think this is the path that will allow market stability in Europe. This year I will also send another amendment to the House of Medicine Act, which will reduce the short-term outages of medicines in the Czech Republic. We have been preparing the amendment since May last year. Drug manufacturers will have a new obligation to have available to Czech citizens the amount of medicinal product corresponding to at least two months of average consumption. By this law, if the House accepts him, if the Senate accepts him and signs the President, we will solve this problem for future times as well. In this area, I also hear claims that the Ministry underestimated the situation, that perhaps we lack the medicines that we sent to Ukraine. Specifically, Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová said she warned us last summer. First of all, we didn't underestimate anything. At the beginning of November, we, the Ministry of Health and the public, were assured by the State Institute for Drug Control that there were no major blackouts. Immediately, when it became clear that it didn't fit, the Ministry of Health began to act. Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová, I was reprimanded that she had warned us in the summer about the lack of medicine that we should look it up. Well, I looked it up, and I have to say that a brief mention of the lack of Nurofen in a completely unrelated outage at the end of the summer, which was quickly resolved, is really not a warning. Especially when the Member did not even bother to contact me or anyone relevant at the Ministry or at the SÚKL, according to my information. I would like to remind you - and it doesn't matter what's going on here today, because this has nothing to do with it - that I appreciate all the opposition Members that I am happy for every initiative they make. I'm sure there isn't a single MP on the right or left, from the opposition or a coalition who could tell me to my face that I wasn't willing to deal with him, that I wasn't dealing with his suggestions, that I wasn't trying to help. I understand that from a number of you here will speak very harsh words, I know you must say them. I don't mind. It doesn't change the fact that I respect you as colleagues, that I respect you as friends. That's just how it's gonna be today. But it bothers me when anyone says there's an incentive they came to me with, and I didn't respond to it. That's not true. It's a lie, and you all know it! At the same time, I would like to clearly refute the claim that the supply of medicines to Ukraine, which is facing the invasion of Putinův's troops, has in any way made the availability of medicines worse for the citizens of the Czech Republic. That's just not true. I've published the structures of the drugs. It wasn't antivirals, it wasn't antibiotics. These were drugs associated with war surgery, drugs for bleeding arrest, medicines that allow surgery to be performed under acute conditions, medical devices. All of these drugs were delivered outside deliveries to the Czech Republic. If I found out that some citizens or some organizations started buying drugs in pharmacies, I immediately intervened, and I forbade this. It's just not true, and whoever says it is either wrong or, which is sad, knowingly lying. I understand the situation for citizens, especially children and their parents. The situation isn't just pleasant, it's horrible. I have four kids, I have a six-month-old grandson, and the idea that I can't get them a cure is something that wakes me up at night and scares me. It scares me as a parent, scares me as a grandfather, scares me as a doctor and, of course, as a health minister who is responsible for health care. But I can say here with all due respect to the Honored House and the citizens of the Czech Republic that we are doing everything we can to have enough medicine. We are one of the most successful in this regard in Europe. We have more than half a million deliveries in excess of what is normally contracted in antibiotics, we have brought 420,000 packages of Nurofen - 340 by 24 December, another 80,000 by this month. We will get more supplies of medicines to the Czech Republic in addition to what is ordered and contracted. Even I don't wish I had to see a crying child who doesn't have a cure. It's just a thing I couldn't carry over my heart. I repeat, therefore, that the provision of medicines for Czech citizens has an absolute priority for me as Minister of Health, me as a doctor, me as a father of four children, me as a grandfather. At the moment, we are intensively discussing the possibilities of further supply of medicines from countries outside the European Union. It must be medicine safe from countries where the approval process is as robust as in the European Union. Therefore, I very much appreciate the efforts of all those who cooperate with us, and I beg you and I call you to this cooperation also to ensure the supply of medicines for Czech citizens, for Czech patients. From the bottom of my heart, I thank all the pharmacists, doctors, who are often in the front line in the last few weeks, and are really doing their utmost to cope with the situation. They deserve a big thank you for that. Still, there is no risk of any patient getting the treatment he needs in the area of antibiotics today. Alternatives are available in the case of the missing primary prescribed product. We can manage the situation, even if it takes a long time, it will not be simple and it is not simple throughout Europe and unfortunately throughout the world. [[14.50 hours]] The next topic is covid-19. Today, Mr Babiš repeatedly announces how his priority was in health when he was Prime Minister. Well, as the health services looked, we all seem to remember to this day. Even if the present members of the YES probably wanted people to forget about it. I'm not going to mention tens of thousands of victims, but let's think about the lockdowns, confusing measures changing slowly from hour to hour. Let's remember opening hours in stores, chaotic situations when the Prime Minister was disturbing what the Minister of Health had announced a few days before, and then no one knew what was going on. And what was true was largely interrupted by the Supreme Administrative Court, because the Prime Minister promised airlocks that were not possible. Let's remember the ban on traveling between counties. Let's remember how we couldn't leave our own town. Do you remember that? Or do you really not remember? Inability to help pendlers. Longest closed schools in Europe. Was that also the step that helped us handle the situation? We were the pioneers? We had enough vaccine. The Prime Minister brought them on a plane. And what did that end with? Trying to order...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u18	I'm sorry, Minister. Colleagues, colleagues, please don't yell at the Minister and use such rude terms. Do me a favor, Mr. Ambassador. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u19	And what did that end with? Trying to order citizens of the Czech Republic under various penalty sentences compulsory vaccination. That's how it all peaked. By the end of March last year, we were all required to vaccinate, or a large part of us. And what few people know, but the Ministry of Health is full of such stories, there are various interventions that went targeted to the Ministry. Today it turns out that the situation has been handled differently. And that's how we acted. When I joined the Department of Health, I said I didn't want to shut down any more companies, and I'm gonna cancel the measures as soon as it's technically possible. I also canceled the senseless and unenforceable mandatory vaccination against covid. During the omicron wave, we introduced massive testing in companies in cooperation with the Chamber of Commerce and the Association of Industry and Trade. This, along with voluntary vaccination and testing in schools, has proven to have slowed down the omicron wave so that we have managed it without overwhelmed hospitals, lockdowns, school closures and further closure of society and economy. Together with this, we quickly put in place eIncompetent as an automated service, which helped employers when they had an infected employee. All this in cooperation with experts from the National Institute for the Management of the pandemic. Our government has relied on access to the epidemic, relies on it, and will also rely on the personal responsibility of citizens, which has paid off. New Year's silvestr, 2021, a few weeks after I was appointed Minister of Health, he became more free than he would have been in the past. And I've reaped a lot of criticism here. Let's remember that. We abolished all measures in several waves during February, March and April. The condition of the pandemic emergency was then terminated on May 3rd. During the autumn we then secured antivirals against covid-19, in October we launched an information vaccination campaign, which was also appreciated by media experts. It would've been enough if she was just a good one. But the most important thing about her is that she had results. It did not scare citizens as it did in previous governments, but at the right time came with positive motivation and led to the vaccination of hundreds of thousands of citizens, thanks to which the end of the year was calm in terms of covid-19 and hospitals were not overwhelmed, and during 2022 we managed to administer 3 million doses of vaccination against covid-19 without ordering anyone. Of course, we continue to take Covid-19 very seriously, carefully monitoring the situation in China. China released the lockdowns, changed measures from one day to the next, and because it's uninfected because it doesn't have a high-quality vaccine, there's been a huge wave of epidemics. We are also following the situation within the European Union, and for this reason we are responding to this situation. From Monday 16 January, for passengers from the People's Republic of China to the Czech Republic, we are introducing measures that require them to submit a PCR test or antigen test on departure from China if they have been in this country for more than 12 hours in the last 14 days. This is how we respond to the recommendation of the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control for the European Union States. There's no need to panic, but alertness is in order. The virus mutates, it changes, and we have to be ready. Now I would like to briefly mention oncology. I'm being attacked here that I've shut down the monument or totem, the Megalomaniac Cancer Center at the Hospital in Vinohrady. Not only do I know that this was absolute nonsense, but all the paramedic colleagues in this room. After all, experts agree that the abolition of this giant project in Vinohrady was the right decision not only from a medical point of view, but also from a construction point of view. I couldn't really build it. Besides, Vinohrady, it's a trauma clinic, it's a hospital where polytraumas have to be treated, it's a trauma center of the first category. What needs to be built there, and we're gonna build it, is a trauma center. A house for these patients and an urgent income. By shutting down this megalomaniac project, the senseless project was canceled, saving billions to go into the regions, because that's where the money needs to go. Individual regional oncological centres need to be supported. I think that it is precisely the quality of care for patients in the regions that must not threaten anything, especially not the selfish plans for building Prague's businesses. It fascinates me, however, that at a time when this absurd enterprise was invented by the Prime Minister of the previous government, none of his medical experts stopped him, but not even Mrs Mračková Vildumetzová. As former Governor of the Karlovy Vary Region, she knows very well how little oncological care is available in this. But the region under its leadership and the government have done nothing about it in all those long years when the YES resort had health services. In this context, it is also worth recalling the sentence that was spoken from the mouth of the Prime Minister of the previous government: the Karlovy Vary Region is the worst region historically in everything. I can see why a populist might say that. But I don't understand how a long-time chieftain can accept it. I was even more surprised when I, as Minister of Health on the Health Committee, listened to what the members of the ANO movement said about these plans, about the plans to be financed from the National Recovery Plan. I dare to quote one of them: "I, frankly, although I have been doing oncology my whole life, under it I can hardly imagine anything completely real. I have a very clear idea. I sent it to the former Prime Minister, but it doesn't match what's probably intended. So that's one thing. The oncology is really bothering me and the efficiency itself." That's a quote. Well, that's about it. The National Recovery Plan was prepared mainly in 2021, so the focus of individual areas and projects was based on the decision of the previous government. After taking up my post as Minister of Health, I managed to make some key changes in cooperation with colleagues at the Ministry of Health in a very short time so that we could use the money effectively. Originally completely oversized projects, which did not meet the needs of Czech health care, have been adapted to be feasible at all. All the milestones and objectives that are necessary to receive financial support from the European Union can therefore be met and all criticism has therefore been eliminated. In the first half of 2022, the strategy of the Ministry of Health - the National Cancer Plan by 2030 was also developed under my direction. It was created in cooperation with the Oncological Society. All its recommendations were incorporated and approved by the government in June 2022. One of the most important investments in oncology is the completion of the Motol Oncology Centre, which has its logic, because Motol is a bastion of adult and paediatric oncology that fits the needs of patients in size. However, not only investment projects will be supported, but also support for improving the quality of preventive screening programmes. This area will also be provided for development funding for the next five years. [[15.00 hours]] The mentioned National Recovery Plan is now focused not only on oncology and the construction of one hospital, but it supports the entire network of complex cancer centres, and this - and this is the second news I will be happy to share here - including the Karlovy Vary Region, which has been ignored by the government for a long time. I met with the governor, with the health board, with the head of the medical facility, signed a contract and agreement between the Faculty Hospital Plzeň and the Karlovy Vary Region, and I can say that from the National Recovery Plan will go to the Karlovy Vary Region several hundred million to finish the oncological center in this region and will finally not be the last region in the Czech Republic where PET/CT examination is not available for patients. This machine will also be in this region, and I think it is very good news for patients from this region. It is necessary to thank the Governor for this and for his constructive and very sensible action. We have discussed a number of points within the Czech Presidency. We have not only dealt with the issue of Europe, but, of course, we have focused on Ukraine and I will try to sum up our achievements briefly. Firstly, Czech men will have prostate cancer screening. The pilot project will be ready this year and we will start screening of prostate cancer. Secondly, more than half a million patients with rare diseases will have better access to specialised treatment and diagnosis of their disease. Half a million patients in the Czech Republic with rare diseases. It was agreed that the vaccines against the covid would always be the latest, most recent, and not the ones that were once ordered. Thanks to the new legislation, the quality and safety of substances of human origin, tissues and cells and blood and plasma will be increased in the Czech Republic and throughout the European Union. Finally, the availability of newborn screenings will improve. These are the very concrete results of our work, during which there were hundreds and thousands of hours of negotiations, three major foreign expert conferences, two meetings of the Council of Ministers of Health of the European Union, dozens of meetings at all levels and huge efforts of all the Ministry of Health staff, permanent representation of the Czech Republic to the European Union. We have agreed, we have negotiated, we have discussed the issue constructively and we have tried to agree and we have agreed with other colleagues of the European Union health ministers. The Czech Republic demonstrated the international leadership during almost 11 months of Russia's invasion of Ukraine. I am proud that the Czech government and citizens did not wait for what others would do, but on the contrary, we set an example for the civilized world. The government, citizens and the non-profit sector have been one of the leaders of Ukraine's aid and refugees from the very beginning. We have accepted several hundred thousand refugees, mothers, children who have lost their brothers, their fathers. We offered them top health care, offered them insurance, and they paid us back. Many of them already work in the Czech Republic today, many of them became part of our country. That is why we have taken a number of measures and a number of steps along with the World Health Organization and UNICEF, which have helped us financially in this direction, thus supporting the emergence of ambulances for children, adult ambulances, and from them the benefit of Czech citizens and Czech children. However, the medicines that we exported to Ukraine, i.e. 10 trucks of medicines and medical devices, have always been tested in advance and have never been the products needed for our patients. Again, who says otherwise, lies! Now to what is the main task of every minister of health. Our goal is to move health care back a little bit. The cornerstone of our government is the programming statement. In the health department, after a year we have fulfilled a large part of the promises that we have made to citizens. There's no point in naming everything, and it's probably pointless. In spite of the opposition, we have advocated the automatic valorisation of payments for state insured persons, a historic step that has not been enforced by any minister of health, even though many of my predecessors have sought to do so. This concludes the ad hoc budget increases and the health funding system is stable and can be discussed about the future. This valorisation will not be changed and in no way does the government intend to interfere in this automatic valorisation in any way. We have stabilized the postgraduate education system of health professionals. We finished what my predecessors started in cooperation with the Dean's Association, the Institute for Further Education, the Ministry of Health, the National Center for Nursing and Non-medical Health disciplines. We prepare new educational programs, language courses for foreign health professionals and cooperate with patient organizations. And what is really important, in cooperation with the Dean Association of Medical Faculties, the National Centre of Nursing and the Ministry of Health, we are preparing a completely new concept of postgraduate education in health care. Not a change in educational programs, not a change in certifications, but a significant simplification of the system, acceleration of accreditation, electronization of the system so as to make it an endless and recurring extension of the deadlines, when medical devices are waiting for accreditation, when health professionals are waiting for it to be, or will not be able to go to the tests, finally finished. Our negotiations have progressed greatly in the field of affordable healthcare. The Ministry of Health adjusted financial flows through residential sites to support studies mainly towards pediatricians, practical pediatric psychiatrists, paediatric neurologists and practical physicians for adults. This year's grant for residential places reflects the needs of Czech health care not only in the short term but also in the long term. It should be said that the Ministry of Health for the field of general medicine publishes 150 residential places, which is the most so far in the entire previous - for any previous period. There's never been so many places. In the field of pediatrics, it is 80 places for doctors who choose the field of practical physician for children and adolescents. All these places are reserved for doctors who choose the option for primary care. From this point of view, therefore, we will focus education on primary care in pediatrics, and we have increased the amount of the monthly subsidy to 55 000 per month, so that there is no real problem with occupying these places. These steps will increase not only immediately the number of residences for practitioners for adults, pediatricians, pediatric psychiatrists and paediatric neurologists, but also the number of doctors in these fields in the short term. As part of the effort to reduce unnecessary paperwork, we also cancelled the mandatory periodic work medical examinations for risky professions, as is absolutely standard throughout the world. This year we are also planning to amend the law, which will also cancel mandatory entrance examinations in the case of risky professions. This measure was appreciated not only by the Chamber of Commerce, but also by the Confederation of Industry and Transport and also by schools, which will be able to lose a lot of paperwork and expenditure, which will be able to make better use of. Last week, too, in cooperation with our Member Martina Ochodnická and other Members, it was possible to impose a ban on the sale of nicotine bags under the age of 18. By doing so, the House followed the decree of the Ministry of Health, which, among other things, modified the appearance of their packaging so that they did not resemble candy packaging and did not attract children with their appearance anymore. This brings me to what awaits us this year. Prevention is one of the main priorities. The Ministry of Health is focused on prevention and public health, and it is, after all, a health pillar of the government's programming declaration. Since 1 January 2023, the possibility of allocating health insurance companies to their prevention funds has increased significantly. Health insurance companies will thus be able to have more resources and can contribute to more preventive activities that improve the quality of their lives and promote their health, which ultimately leads to a reduction in the cost of health care provided. I certainly recommend to all citizens to inform their health insurance companies how it is set up. Turn to your insurance companies, it's the right way. We've increased insurance companies tripled the money to prevent, take advantage of all the preventive programs they offer you. We will also support diet in schools, local food production and overall better food in public facilities, which is extremely important and is related to public health. [[15.10 hours]] This year I will also present a reform of the Czech sanitary service so that the regional sanitation stations under the state health service will be made more effective. In the future, there will be clear competences for managing the whole republic's health crises. This also involves a more appropriate definition of the competence of the State Health Institute in order to make it a health institute of Western cut. The covid pandemic has shown that this is absolutely necessary. I will also continue my trips to Czech health, social and educational establishments. I've been going to the regions for a year and I've been talking directly to management, employees, hospital patients and other facilities. I want to personally find out where the shoe is pushing them and how the Ministry can help them. Since I joined the Ministry, I have gone to more than 50 facilities in all regions and in Prague, and I am about to go to more. Today, before the House meeting, I was at St. Elizabeth's Hospital on Slupi, and I had other medical facilities scheduled if there was no emergency meeting. There are, of course, a number of other areas in which the Ministry of Health is taking steps to improve. Palliative care, follow-up and long-term care, which were recently overlooked disciplines, are the ones we need to focus on. But we are also involved in the reform of psychiatric care. The National Mental Health Board is now under the Ministry of Health, under the guidance of a respected expert and vice-chairman of the Czech Psychiatric Society, profesor Kašpárek. To sum it up. The Department of Health works very well. Together with me it is managed by the competent deputy and solves expert problems with experts. Allow me to fully conclude by thanking all health professionals and other health workers, including the Ministry of Health staff. Without them, we would never have mastered the health challenges of the past year. Thank you for your attention and I wish you much patience. Looks like we're gonna be here for a while tonight.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u20	Thank you. First, yes, moment, Mr. Ambassador, I'll just read the apologies. [[This is Mr. Razor.]] Mr. Horák Jiří apologizes, no, he takes his apology back. Mr Kohajda apologises until 10.03 for personal reasons. Mr. Ambassador, okay. [[Ambassador Brázdil cancels his application.]] Okay, let's continue. Another enrollment is Minister Ivan Bartoš, who signed up with priority rights, and then will be followed by Minister Lipavský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u21	Madam President, Minister, Ministers, Members, honourable Members, fellow Members, we are gathered today and probably tomorrow, because the opposition has called for a vote on distrust of the government, which, of course, has the right to do, and no one is questioning it at the moment, and we should defend it, because it is the House that controls the government, how crises are handled, that governs the country, how it fulfills its programming declarations. But when we look at the timing, the vote always hits the election. It was the first time in September when the municipal and Senate elections were held and the Czech Republic chaired the European Union. The vote was unsuccessful. And now it is in January when the presidential elections are being held, and Mr Andrej Babiš, but also colleagues and colleagues, of course, are suffocating that this has nothing to do with it, that this is not a campaign, although Andrej Babiš is the only presidential candidate attached to the political party, and it is this party that convenes the meeting before the second round of the presidential elections. Coincidence? I don't think so. When something looks, swims and quacks like a duck, it is a duck, and this meeting is therefore part of Andrej Babiš's campaign in the second round of elections, and it is a meeting that is for taxpayers' money and it is at the expense of our work, which we could have done today to discuss committees in a number of problems that really bother the citizens of this country. So, before the opposition gets back to the floor and perhaps recommends that we deal with the situation in the form of Hungary - where, among other things, when you look at fresh information, it is almost 25 percent inflation, food has increased by half - so I would like to summarize briefly what we have been working on and working on both at the Ministry of Regional Development and in the area of digitalisation, because one of the pseudoarguments of why the distrust negotiations should be for the government at the moment, although I have not denied this right to the opposition in any way, was that the government does not solve current problems, does not deliver its programming statements, does not work for the people of this country, which is, of course, a lie. I'd look at the digitization area first, because it's a topic that affects all of us. It's a topic that's above purpose. And I will not be here, as the opposition has a habit of criticizing everything the other party is doing, and I will be very happy to appreciate that in the area of digitalisation in the last parliamentary term, there were efforts to improve, which we were also actively involved in at the time as the Pirates as a opposition party. We solved questions about basic registers, Czech POINTs, data boxes, eRecipes, together we worked on the citizens' right to digital service, the introduction of digital technical maps and others. However, when this government was to take over the areas of IT digitalisation and eGovernment, they were in a considerably fragmented and unsatisfactory state from the point of view of our digital strategy tasks. So although there is a strategy of the Digital Czech Republic and projects were planned here to deliver services to citizens and shared data, many of these strategies were really only on paper at the moment. So our first task was to map the real state of affairs and choose the areas where the work will have the most important and fastest impact on people's lives. If I wanted to sum up some of the most important areas that I would like to focus on, these are services intended directly for citizens to deal with their agendas, these are instruments that support a transparent state, and these are matters relating to eGovernment, i.e. state administration and digitalisation. I think it is important to say, and it is not some news that the central point of all efforts to digitize, to digitalize is a citizen of the Czech Republic, and the aim should be to facilitate communication between the citizen and the state, to remove unnecessary and inefficient inter-steps through transparent instruments and to increase the trust of citizens that the state is helpful to him. When I look at what awaits us this year, as well as the preparatory work that preceded it, the aim should be, or the citizen should be able to use mobile apps on his mobile phone. Its solution is ready and will be delivered during this year. The practical tools, and I think that this is absolutely essential in the European context, will include a citizen's license or a driving licence in electronic form and a so-called digital wallet. The priority is full digitization of the most used services across the resorts and the implementation of the shared fund. Before I began to pursue politics at some point 14 years ago in the profession, the mantra was already flying in the air that it wasn't supposed to be citizens orbiting the authorities, but it was supposed to be data. I must say that in the first analysis of how the legal obligation of a citizen's right to digital service is fulfilled, i.e. the moment when all ministries share their data and the state merely consists of the individual services, I must say that the state was not satisfactory. However, there is already a lot going on in terms of strengthening the shared data fund, and in the following year we want to significantly accelerate the effectiveness of data sharing between departments, whether it is a combination of data from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and various batch systems, as well as financial information that institutions currently have under the Ministry of Finance. Last but not least, we are dedicated to speeding up the digitization of the services that the public is calling for most. It's not just, let's say, big agenda systems, let's say, digitization of the construction process, Portal of the carrier, but it's mostly services in the area of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs at the moment. This simplifies the services and the use of the data already available is improving and in the next year and in this area we intend to deliver other services to the Portal of a citizen or to individual agenda systems and portals of individual ministries. [[15.20 hours]] I think that one of the essential things that burns the Czech Republic is a transparent state, which is based on transparent financing and public access by the state. In fact, we have already institutionalized one of the key instruments, it is in the open-data amendment of Act 106 - the right to information where it is clearly stored that all information that the state can, and it is the data sets, will share in open data format, in public administration this format will be standard and the state will fulfill that it is transparent in its functioning, transparent in processes and transparent in data.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u22	I'm sorry, Minister, to interrupt. Colleagues, colleagues, please remain calm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u23	We are now picking out other data sets, which can then be used so that in fulfilling the obligation to provide the data in open source format in the following year we make significant progress and fulfill the legal obligation on time. The good news also includes transparent expenditure and the introduction of metrics. When I was performing here at the beginning of last year, and at this point we are missing an addition - thank you - and at this point we are missing an addition for only some resorts. [[After a glass of water]] We should know for what tasks the state spends in the performance of individual agendas and how these services are used. That digitalization, if properly managed, is the real way to save, to slim state, and to remove bureaucracy. There are simply services and processes that at the moment require the work of many officials. We can figure out what these services cost, and then we won't watch it happen historically - here we spend money on digital solutions, but we get value for that money. This is a simplification of processes and savings in the finals, because that is how savings are made on the side of the slim state through the investigation of civil servants' work. And when I look at critical communication through data boxes, even if the situation is not quite optimal and we would like to extend the possibility of keeping these messages for a longer period of time and set up the model better, so through data boxes in communication with entrepreneurs The Czech Republic, the state, will save hundreds of millions in the next year for correspondence, which has been provided in written form so far. I think that it is probably worth mentioning now that the third important pillar, and that is eGovernment, a truly digital government, which, and I think, is the greatest ailment, if you also approach the service of the state, and there is a significant shift there, is to unite and clarify the service of the state, so that the client, as well as the official who serves them, can navigate them. Here is an important element not only of setting metrics, but finally of fulfilling obligations, using standards that are defined in the design of the system, the gradual migration of those important institutions under the domain of gov.cz, so that a person, a citizen or an entrepreneur, knows that he communicates on official platforms with the state administration in an environment that will be similar, which will not be every dog in a different village. The gov.cz initiative has now been consecrated by the government by its resolution in those areas and we will continue to do so. What I think is essential, and here I see a long-term deficit, and unfortunately it does not just show statistics that come from abroad in comparison, and this is the digitalisation and readiness of the Czech Republic for the change that the 21st century has brought. This theme could sound like digitization and education. While we may have tools that allow digitalization, the other thing is whether those who operate with them can control them, and citizens believe them and can move in that digital environment. And it's a pretty shocking finding, and we're going to build on that this year, according to the DESI index, where we're not only lagging behind in the digitalisation, but I believe that we will be able to reverse this trend this year, but only two thirds of citizens in the Czech Republic have basic digital education and we have major deficits in the area of special ICT expertise, and we even have the lowest percentage of women represented in ICT, their expertise and working representation. And even schools, and let's face it, suffer from a lack of teachers with appropriate qualifications, and the education system does not adapt quickly enough to those digital needs. The European Union and all states are flying through the year 2023, which bears the name Year of Competence or Year of Skills. It is not only a false password, of course, but also a lot of funding that will be released in programmes, where it will be an important source of European finance, will aim to acquire digital skills among the entire population not only within the education of the school but also through the workplace, through retraining in the lifelong learning system. This is a priority for us in the following year, because we will not reap the fruit of this process until a few years later. Our aim is that, indeed, even within the digital decade, the Czech Republic should be prepared for a change in the nature of the market, the nature of the competences needed to ensure sustainable employment. And together with colleagues from other resorts and my team at the Cabinet we work on a framework, a framework for digital education, where we want to take advantage of the good position of the Czech Republic in the area of human capital, which is evaluated very high, and simply to achieve this also in the areas of digital skills, not only within some index, so that we can play well, but really involve the state, academic organizations both non-profit and private, and offer citizens of the Czech Republic specific tools to expand their digital competences. I think it is about the programmes, but it is also about the popularisation of digitalisation and the non-use of topics relating to digitization, to scare people, because the data that we have at the moment and are also available on the websites of individual ministries show that a very small percentage of people in the Czech Republic feel at all the need to educate themselves during their working life or active life in the competences that are already and will be necessary for the next period. In order to digitize the state, of course, we also need officials with detailed knowledge of their agenda, and at the same time able to think about it transformally. So the education of officials at individual departments, communication, training, software operators is quite essential, because this is the website of control, good input, knowledge of services, for example, provided by the Czech POINT at the moment, because here we are constantly, still bumping into the fact that even in the current state, those authorities cannot use the tools that are intended to do so. Just to the importance of the subject here: Like the Government has the Government Legislative Council, there is, of course, a RVIS - the Information Society Council, which has swelled relatively over the years and in the given areas has relatively lost its capacity. We have implemented a restructuring of the Information Society Council and the digital education issues are dealt with by two committees. It is the whole of one committee, where the platform for interdisciplinary digital education and other stakeholders is combined, and it is also a committee that deals with the digital economy, because the most part of people's lives are employed, and it is also a platform, your work, an employer, where it is really necessary to join forces and those digital competences and the so-called upskill, that is to increase competences, to carry out. Only from the point of view of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, for example, to increase competence in digitization and digital technologies from basic knowledge of work from technologies to questions -
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u24	I'm sorry, Minister, to interrupt. Colleagues, colleagues - [[The O.R. suddenly went quiet.]] Well, this way, if it could last a while. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u25	I think I'm gonna yell it out. [[You may proceed.]] So only in the area of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs will they go from European funds - about 6 billion released. The MIT also has considerable amounts at the moment. And that year 2023 should be significantly - and we are going to push for the position of Czech students, citizens, but also seniors who are subject to fraud on the Internet to improve. Not only nonprofit organizations but libraries and other facilities that provide information services can help us. [[15.30 hours]] I think it is essential to work on the digital awareness, where I think that this has not been addressed historically. In the coming days, we will launch new portals that address the digital strategy of the Czech Republic and the part where we will familiarize citizens with existing services and how to use them and market these services so that citizens will not be afraid to use the services on the Portal of Citizens, Bank Identity and Data Boxes. I think there's a historically large deficit. We'll straighten it out this year. I would like to talk briefly about the transformation of digitalization, because it was a big topic here in the House. Those priorities or projects are a real supply of services. But it's just one of the parts. When we have tried historically - and then I will quote a little from 2018 from the task of the previous government, indeed in embedded resortism and with a very small level of management it is very difficult to promote or supply principles of shared service in the Czech Republic and actually manage digitalization effectively in some way. We, with a relatively small apparatus that I hold at the Office of the Government, with advisors from civil society, the Academy and the commercial sphere, have devoted a year to preparing the digital transformation. It is quite essential - and I am doing this intensively - to actually create conditions and environments for effective uniform coordination and management of digitalisation with clear control of priorities, as well as financial flows. And I, when faced with criticism here, why we are doing this, even though the costs that are quantified for the first year by the Digital and Information Agencies, are, in addition to the state budget, about CZK 150 million, I would like to quote the task of the previous government of 2018 and it was: "Concentrate the IT agenda, including defining the basic standards applicable to state administration, central cost management and architecture and project delivery." This task remains unfulfilled. We carried out all the preparatory work last year - we do it. 80 people from ministries, the Office of the Government, NAKIT, the private sector are currently working intensively on this project, and we believe that the digital transformation project will be removed from the country in the following month and the DIA will start working. After all, the Chamber of Deputies approved a package of those legislative amendments to the laws to change competences and to establish the Digital and Information Agenda, which not only continues the task that the Government of Andrej Babiš established in 2018, but also relies on the programming statement of the Government of Petr Fiala, when we really want to have the central authority that has the necessary powers, the mandate and is equipped with sufficient methodological, budgetary, but also legislative and control powers to be able to promote effective, secure and sustainable digitalisation across the public administration, but also to provide the competences that have been gradually lost from the ministries themselves for those years when we digitize, because one of the biggest problems is that the Ministry - the ministry - the department - is not really able to define its needs, to impose requirements on private suppliers, and then those digitalisation projects are dragged into the launch of a tender or public procurement itself for years with uncertain results, mostly the combination of a bad result for several times overpriced solutions. [[The Agency shall:]] I think that, in addition to the fact that the Digital and Information Agency is a significant shift in digitization at the level of the Czech Republic in the framework of interinstitutional cooperation, it is also important to take into account the international position of the Czech Republic. And we have already established relations with professional teams across Europe, we have gained the necessary international experience, which we have already taken advantage of within our Presidency of the European Union, and also within the Czech Republic we address other important experts and personalities. We have an advisory body of the Czech Digital Team. For us, support from the private sector is extremely important, and a lot of things that start in European legislation are pointless only at national level, and especially in matters of digitalisation management, partnership with similar organisations or agencies in other countries is alive. And I believe that working with Denmark, Estonia, Finland this year will be far more than a press conference or a one-day seminar with the Estonians on why they are doing this digitalization and not us, and a lot of the things we have learned that year from our partners, and they will have some things from us, for example in matters of safety and the work of the SAKIB, will benefit and we will be able to actively use them in solving our projects here. We've come in the right direction. I think it illustrates this, and it has been mentioned here since my previous speakers, the leadership of the Czech Presidency in the Digital Agenda, both by European partners and by institutions in the European Union. In July, we negotiated an agreement with the European Parliament on the form of digital transformation from 2030, the so-called Digital Decade, which again determines where we want to go as the Czech Republic, where we want to move as Europe, where it burns us, whether it is a lack of competence in digitization or questions of very poor coordination of international digitalisation activities, such as sharing data for systems, access of individual partners in the European debate on platforms, use of data for foreigners, who decide to start a company in the Czech Republic or negotiate things that are prudent and to deal with the state. That's what the digital decade has been talking about. It sets targets. And, of course, when objectives are set, European funds are released in this direction, and the digital part is in a number of legislation and in a number of programmes that we are already dealing with. After all, the National Recovery Plan is not a green trance, but it is a digital and environmental trance. From some of the achievements that I think must be mentioned - and I wanted to thank the co-operating people at the permanent representation, our diplomats who may not be so much visible in the public space as ministers, but they have done a huge amount of work and in the Digital Agenda they are actually the first existing rules where we have actually found a consensus among all the 27 countries on setting the rules for artificial intelligence across the EU, so also, and I think that it is essential to enable the creation of that electronic identity as a citizen's option and e-Wallet rules where we can operate across the European Union if we want to, with one universal identification, and the data that we want to share and be applicable in other EU countries, the citizen will simply wear and use them - the highest education achieved or, for example, when someone travels with a pet, so vaccination with a dog or cat and other, driving license and so on. And I believe that this year we will also deliver the national version, which will be based on the European rules, so that in 2025, with little costs, we can switch it over, be prepared, and our citizens can benefit from all the benefits of European identity, as we used to use European roaming. And there are a lot of people here, including me, who remember what it was like before the calls and data in Europe were standardized and we didn't have to worry or say call me back, I might be at a meeting in Spain right now. I think what is still important in the Digital Agenda area is that individual ministers and individual EU states have worked together on security issues, whether it was the provision of hosting services to the Ukrainian state that helped the country to operate when Ukraine was under cyber-attack, so are the issues concerning Internet security, where we are working intensively as a full partner, and also thanks to our SAKIB, both within the EU and NATO. So much for digitizing. [[15.40 hours]] I would just sum up the priorities for this year: increasing the shared data of individual resorts, that is to say extending the shared data fund, which is then composed of those services for citizens. That means citizens don't have to do the same thing all the time. These services will be simpler, and the obligation to prove something should decline significantly as we choose, and we now have nine adepts for those services that citizens use most often, these we should convert to digital form so that duplication of information is no longer necessary. It is then a unified domain of gov.cz, the first steps, and it is at the turn of 2023, 2024 electronic wallet and in it ideally ID or proof that I am entitled to drive a motor vehicle. I'd jump on the Ministry of Regional Development agenda right now. I think that perhaps the most important law that came up, and we were here during the last parliamentary term arguing about what the recodification of building law should look like, where we, as at the time of the opposition, see fundamental problems, we brought to the House of the Amendment to the Construction Act, which was approved unanimously by the Government. We have clearly said in the last parliamentary term that we do not think that the clean government system is the right solution, that the construction offices or the construction administration should remain in the management of cities and municipalities, and we have declared before the elections that we will amend the law in this very direction. In addition to the fact that the transformation would be costly - I will not be here fencing with different numbers, to how many people calculated that the transfer from transferred authority to purely state construction administration would be costly - there was also a problem in human capital, the unwillingness of people to move from cities and construction offices to clean government, and there were other objectively measured problems, writing separation and so on. We have prepared a substantive amendment to the construction law, postponed the effectiveness of the part and, in cooperation with the Ministry of Interior and with other resorts and also representatives of cities and municipalities in any formation, whether it is with MO ČR, or SMS ČR, or with the Association of Regions, we have subsequently introduced a model where the construction office remains in place, at the same time remains a separate special office for decision-making about the selected buildings, the so-called SOSÚ. This substantive amendment, and I am glad that in this area, my predecessor Klára Dostálová and I can pour pure wine - a lot of things that we negotiated on the House platform or were in the original proposal, made sense, are certainly right to lead and simplify the building process, whether it was just one building procedure, not the two stage process, whether it was the gradual collection of the authorities concerned and their comments on the process, so the form of one decision in the finals remains preserved. The period of authorisation, the appeal principle of appeal, and the fictions when the period will run, and if the decision is not given, it shall be deemed to be agreed. That's what we kept from recodification in our novel. Our task was to prepare an amendment to the construction law, which results from the programming declaration. And that's what we've done. This proposal went through first reading in the House, and my personal goal, as well as the entire government, is to find a common solution that will make the building process faster, transparent, digital, understandable. We will preserve his anchoring in the territory and welcome all the proposals that go towards achieving this goal. And I would once again like to thank Klára Dostálová and other colleagues for the constructive negotiations. In the end, I think that we will find a broad consensus on this proposal, or that it will land with a higher consensus on the government coalition with the opposition, and that in March, which is already in two months, we will be able to discuss this law in its second and third reading and to send it to the Senate in a consensual manner. When I talked about the construction law, we also responded to the energy crisis through the construction law. Let's not talk about what caused it now. Let's say that in the finals its hardest impacts were due to the Russian war in Ukraine, but the Czech Republic has long been clinging to large energy suppliers, even if we were talking about individual sources, solar power plants on roofs, so the approach was rather overwhelming that it was not an individual or institutional solution. As part of the amendment to the Construction Act, we therefore supported the energy building that uses renewable energy sources, so that the regulation of the current construction law, which is also transferred to the amendment, makes it very much easier to install which uses renewable energy resources to existing buildings. This was the dilemma of how to place solar panels on roofs, such as some family or private buildings, as well as in a built-in area, where it is a solution for some institutions, where there were certain obstructions in the interpretation of how we deal with the change in the appearance of the building and others, but we also address placing these, say, new electricity productions from renewable sources into the territory. It is an important step towards cheaper and affordable energy for households and businesses. After all, we can also record the boom especially in the individual solution section in the number of applications for network connection and in the number of installations. This amendment has already been approved by both the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, and its effectiveness now depends on the President's signature, which I assume could be at the end of this month or the beginning of the next, I firmly hope so. And it will follow up on that, which I think is also important not only from the point of view of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, which is a translator, but especially from the perspective of self-governments or associations of citizens who want to address their energy needs in a mass manner, and that will be the rules for so-called community energy, which is a piece into a puzzle or a jigsaw puzzle that we lacked here and should significantly support the changes that we have already introduced in the amendment to the construction law, the old one, and we are moving it into the new one. I think - and here again, it's not a job that Bartoš would probably deliver himself this year or without the people at the Ministry, but we've already stepped on it in this area under previous governments. I must say that I am very pleased that the Czech Republic has been going through the various peripeties of European funds for 18 years, and we know that we have really made it among the premieres in the use of European funds. Last year, the new programming period 2021-2027 started in the drawing of EU funds and from the middle of 2022 to the end, we have already announced 153 calls with a total allocation of 286 billion crowns. And these are the challenges that support education, health care, safe low-emission transport, climate protection and other areas needed, and many other challenges we are going to and will be putting out just during this year. In addition, during 2022, the Czech Republic completed the negotiation of the entire strategic framework for drawing support from EU funds belonging to cohesion policy in 2021-2027, and became even the second EU state, which also had approved all the follow-up programmes. I think it's very important. Even within our Presidency, I have been asked by the Commissioners or by the states that, say, are in the top ten, whether we can appeal to other states as the Presidency, if the ball is on their side, whether they also conclude a partnership agreement, whether the projects that are the way - investment projects - from the crisis, which will help us solve not only the problems of the day, the need to deal with transport, the modernisation of educational institutions, as well as the things that concern the current crisis, so that the money is drawn up and released as quickly as possible in the context of the challenges and find the necessary ones, which are, of course, municipalities and regions in the area of solutions, but in the finals they are services for people. We are working similarly intensively on fundamental changes to national titles that have long deserved our attention. Perhaps fundamental changes include emphasis on the strategic and conceptual application of regional policy, where we are trying to use innovative financial instruments and other financial instruments in subsidy programmes. I'm gonna switch from that bureaucratic ptydepe now. It's very simple. [[15.50 hours]] Those national titles can never replace, in their volume, European resources, which form a significant part of investment in regions and territories. Therefore, they should be targeted very precisely, not looking at it by looking at the division into three levels of regions - Prague, those medium-developed and then three regions suffering - but we should aim exactly at the individual areas and really try to balance the differences between them. So this isn't about the fact that when money is released somewhere that isn't a lot, it automatically creates a claim for everyone, because they don't sharpen it, but we should aim those resources very accurately. And since, in the future, as the Czech Republic and, for example, in the European area will no longer be a net beneficiary and the ratio will change, we should be able to start involving, say, other financial instruments, whether they are domestic, national, development bank institutions, they may actually be templates and instruments used by the European Investment Bank, really increase the amount of money that can be used under similar rules as investment money in the development of cities and municipalities and, in particular, in helping those two regions. And I've seen Mr. Governor here, the Moravian-Silesian Region is going, and I'm very happy about it, but the situation of the Karlovy Vary Region within those projects, including the Ústí Region, is actually a long-term miserable one. And I would also like, in the following year, whether it is a direct grant policy within the framework of national titles or programmes that are aimed at these regions from European titles, so I would really like those projects to go more towards smaller and medium-sized investigators and to spread them into the territory, including the assistance of individual cities and municipalities, which have the biggest problem in these areas with the preparation of projects until they are able to ask for some funding or financial assistance. I think, and I would just like to mention it, because it was the work of a lot of people at the Ministry of Regional Development, we managed to achieve a breakthrough during our Presidency when discussing changes to the rules for European subsidies. As prices grew as a result of inflation, the war in Ukraine, and the projects that were developed during that period, they basically ceased to have economic coverage, because things had increased, it was not possible to complete them at a given time either because of financial reasons or because of the lack of a commodity, building materials or people. We have begun before our Presidency... we were the ones who initiated the debate for the Ministry of Regional Development and subsequently it came to the approval of the European Parliament, the enforcement of the package, which eventually carried the name FAST-CARE, where we actually saved thousands of quality projects in regions throughout the European Union, because those countries were calling for it very much. In the Czech Republic, directly threatened projects were worth approximately 32 billion crowns. Maybe I'd just mention briefly right now, at this point, they're actually running. This delay was objectively due to the relatively devastating intervention of the tornado, where at the time it was necessary to reconstruct a large number of buildings within the municipalities affected by the tornado, both private and municipal, where either material or human capacity of construction companies was somehow lacking at the time, but we are also finishing the process of helping municipalities affected by the tornado. We responded to the situation of a fire in Hřensko and we launched - and so there was no money left after the last government and it was delivered there - helping municipalities affected by the floods, when we are trying to respond, say, to the domestic situations related to natural disasters. In the spring of last year, when there was a request from the territory in the context of crisis management in Ukraine, which set about 400,000 people in motion, especially mothers, children, older people who came to the Czech Republic, and finally, I think that is a good business card for the Czech Republic, private sector, regions, municipalities, individual resorts, so we managed to provide these people temporary accommodation. Gradually there is some kind of transfer already to the standard regime, so we have prepared a programme to increase capacity, public accommodation capacities, which were intended to address primarily the situation related to people fleeing from Ukraine, where supported flats or acquired capacity, of course, in the finals after the war one day, and I believe that they will end, will serve municipalities, ergo keynote citizens of the Czech Republic, we have launched this program. In the end, the title was drawn from only one quarter, and yet it generated new housing for some 2,000 people. After the debate with cities and municipalities, we want this programme also within the framework of the strategy, because the war is still not over, to adapt so that it is more attractive for the municipalities, that we can really increase the municipal capacity, which at this time will be used to manage the accommodation of people who are fleeing Putinův's war, but, of course, they will remain in the property of the municipalities and then serve to strengthen the housing fund. At the same time, we would like to open up a debate on the actual implementation of projects supported from the EU, and, if necessary in the light of the crisis, submit to the Government a proposal to revise the strategic framework, taking into account the upcoming revision of the National Recovery and Support Plan within the framework of the REPower EU, or, for example, the possibility of using the loan from the Recovery and Resistance Instrument, translated into the speech of perception, as we are talking about it, to the National Recovery Plan. I have a rather important agenda, which will probably not be quite nice to my opposition colleagues, but I think it was an important agenda that we had to deal with right after the reign of Petr Fiala, which eventually ended successfully - successfully for the Czech Republic. In July last year, the European Commission decided that the audit procedure had a conflict of interest involving former Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, the European Commission had closed. And this step ended more than three years of proceedings, during which the Czech party in the past government stubbornly refused to accept the key conclusions of the European Commission. Thanks to the fact that we've been able to make things right, from my point of view, too, and forgive me for bringing this personal into this, it really ended up as an unprecedented disgrace to international character. Because being labeled a state that doesn't handle European money properly, and having it built on the Prime Minister's person, was a very uncomfortable situation. The conclusions of the European Commission really led to this interpretation, which we pointed out four years ago, that the real use of only trust funds, even if the previous or last Prime Minister Babiš had it supported by some legal analysis, but not by analyses which I think should weigh the opinion of individual resorts, so we tried to reflect the finding. We appealed to the last government. And, of course, the European Commission has placed on our table conditions that the Czech Republic must fulfil in order not to jeopardise the use of European subsidies. That conflict of interest cost us a lot of work. We could have devoted this energy to other topics. Only the volumes that concerned Agrofert's own holding were around CZK 2 billion a year, including... or if we add public contracts to that. Now the Czech Party, thanks to the steps we have taken as a government, to the laws that we have pushed to the end, so the Czech Republic follows the rules to conflict of interest. We've made all the recommendations. And from the final letter, it is clear that the European Commission appreciates this shift towards a fair and clean grant environment. Otherwise, the conflict of interest law prohibits companies controlled by a member of the government from obtaining subsidies and public contracts. This is a bit sad part of the story, because, for example, under the IROP subsidy programme, some companies of the group in 2017 and 2020 dealt with partial contracts, it is about 43 million from European funds. And even after the conclusions that we received from financial controlling, we have no choice but, on the basis of the audit and all available opinions, not to pay these CZK 43 million from European funds and, in fact, along with the regions or those who received any subsidy, but they had a sub-contract from the companies concerned by the conflict of interest, to sort of sort of solve it and it will probably end with the recovery of these amounts, because at this point in time the municipalities or the investigators are more likely to be such hostages. [[16.00 hours]] Otherwise, even in the campaign of non-campaign, factual assistance is being discussed in the context of regional development. In the long run, I think that the approach that was under previous governments cannot be judged to be entirely successful, because the money that is intended to balance the differences between regions, even if I understand a sense of fairness, is simply intended to serve those regions to balance the differences or declines, whether it is the availability of education, investment in hospital amenities. And if the royal decree of the previous government actually matched all the other national funds or national budgets with the funds, that actually continued the deepening. Of course, this inequality will not disappear regionally. The Ministry of Regional Development and the volume of funds it manages cannot resolve this within the framework of the implementation of the regional development strategy in the short term of six months, year. You'll build a house in a year if you're lucky. But change, whether it concerns the availability of education, quality of education, infrastructure equipment, really requires coordination between departments. And I am glad that we have prepared, and it should happen this year too, when the coordination, which the Ministry of Regional Development has previously had, was, say, a formal type on the principle of communication between the Minister or the Minister and the Deputys or with the ministries above the sub-parts. We would really like to institutionalize this and, like European affairs, we would like to deal with the EU, so things that have an impact on the development of the regions at some point in time in a positive, some negative way, so it is important that this is dealt with in an interdepartmental way. Because even in the regional development strategy, which points to the problems of quality of life in the various areas of the Czech Republic, the authorities of the pillars and objectives, they are other departments in charge of this, and they are, for example, a combination of the finance of the various departments and their European programmes to achieve this. I, of course, try as Minister for Regional Development, although the possibilities have now been severely limited by the European Presidency, to visit those regions and, thanks to the fact that our hands are now loose through the successful Presidency, in the following year I would like to focus on the very structurally affected regions, in which we are speaking openly about some structural disability, the failure of some kind of employment classification, the absence of education, so really focus on the very structurally affected regions, economically and socially endangered territories. In this direction, we also regulate national grant titles to take such territories into account. At the same time, it is important, and I think, and I have read this as a reservation of some political commentators, it is very difficult to set up the correct balance of the presentation, because the use of European resources is not the merit of the Ministry, that they are well processed, formally correct, and they will find their users, certainly, for that the resorts have quite an experienced apparatus. But it is the European cohesion policy, a third of the European Union budget, which gives the opportunity to increase the quality of life in regions so that citizens, wherever they live in the European Union, and we have that possibility, simply experience similar qualities. And I think it's important to talk about those successful projects, historically, and I believe that we manage to turn it around, all the good things that happened at home, whether it was in itself or simply by being a good businessman in the region, who was honest and successful, or by European money, which enabled, for example, some reconstruction of a railway station or the position of a cleaner, so it was somehow the credit of that government or a particular minister of that department, and all the bad things that went wrong were the fault of the European Union. I think it is important to show how regional development and its sources of funding give reason to believe in the European project. And it is a pity that, within the European Presidency, we have not been able to show more, but those European finances are making a fundamental change in those regions. I'm getting close to the end. I think that still an important issue, and it has a little bit to do with the conflict of interest, is also a matter of public procurement under the rules. We're trying to correct some historical mistakes. In September, the first reading in the Chamber of Deputies was the amendment to the Public Procurement Act, which actually brings the legislation into line with the European directives and in several respects corrects a certain implementation debt of the previous government. We have also developed a methodology for contracting authorities to know how to apply international sanctions, which involve an element of who could or could not participate in international sanctions and which companies could or could not participate in public law. [[unintelligible]] We have been working together to enforce the Magnit Law at the Ministry of Regional Development and we are currently supporting central purchasing, as well as the reform of the Office for the Protection of Competition and the Electronisation of Public Procurement, as well as methodological support for contracting entities. All I'm saying here is that the view of public procurement or public procurement should be a little different. When we look at the European standard, in public procurement, you just have to be able to say what you want. It should be something new, something innovative, something that moves towards some lasting goal. Just not buying something we're used to with public money, but buying what we really want with it. Whether it's a community, whatever it is a ministry, whoever it is. Public procurement helps promote policy, which is also laid down in the Government's programming declaration, not just the Ministry of Regional Development. In the field of public procurement, we have yet another crucial task in the coming period, that is the processing and adoption of the national public procurement strategy of the Czech Republic. It clearly names the key priorities that I was talking about by the way. These in public procurement account for more than 12 percent of our GDP. So we will also prepare basic theories for small-scale procurement and focus on central purchases of the state. Last but not least, I would like to look at the promotion of tourism here. This sector was significantly affected not only by the period of covid, but also by the situation related to the war in Ukraine, because a large part of the clientele, which visited the Czech Republic, was a Russian clientele. It is not only a question of spa towns, where there was actually a strong residential presence. We would also like, in the following period and in fact, the long-awaited law on the management of tourism development following the model of countries such as Austria, Italy or Croatia. Indeed, we have an effective system of tourism financing for the development of regions, quality of life, and we also have a project that we will implement under the National Recovery Plan, and this is the eTurist system, which is not just a click for tourists, but we want to replace what is happening at this time and is quite annoying, it is a complex process where organizations, Czech police, statistical offices, the relevant community and the provider often communicate with paper communications about housing foreigners. And we would really like this process to be fully automatic, to meet there, to be entered only once, to allow municipalities, for example, to collect accommodation fees better, but of course, it would save all those subjects work. And I am glad that, although this was not the plan, we pushed the Commission rather intensively within our Presidency, so that we could no longer participate in other processes. [[16.10 hours]] But in conclusion, the Commission has already issued, actually submitted a proposal concerning shared accommodation, the so-called Airbnb, and we were able to monitor it from a state where it was a truly shared service, so it has evolved into a rather robust area of business in accommodation services, and we have not been able to fully respond to it as the Czech Republic or as a city, whether it concerns comparison of conditions for business from the point of view of tax obligations, but also, for example, in the context of neighbourly coexistence and residents' rights, when there is a disturbance of night tranquility. I think that legislation, which will adjust this in a proper way, is absolutely desirable. I just wanted to talk about the heat bill, because actually, the fact that we're having a meeting tonight to distrust, we're having a little bit of a meltdown on the program that Patrik Nacher and I are trying to deal with here. [[shows the written material in plenary]] It's also a big thing, except it's not as simple as it can be from the media headlines. As we've all finally started to address, and it's nothing to joke about, because the energy costs of households have increased significantly, and as before, let's say to people more or less, whether his apartment has a label A, B, C or D, E, E, and now you see gs on the real estate market, which aren't even trading anymore, so even if you live somewhere where you have central heating and actually solve heat readings not only yours, but also at the overall point, and their settlement, so the system, as set up, is relatively unfair, but towards, for example, those who decide to save, but their surroundings drowning as they say to the Lord God in the windows, or your location of the apartment simply doesn't allow it to draw the heat. We really want this to be fixed. It is determined by the concept - in the form of a decree that necessarily needs revision. We started this right away. We've done a rather fundamental analysis, just working only as meters and with the position of the apartment, just when we're dealing with the energy performance of buildings and typology, it's not that simple. We were supposed to have a conference and a round table today, where I wanted to get acquainted with the results and suggest some path that would fit the individual, for example, SVJ. I wanted to get it started before the holidays, but if you know the movie Owners, the agreements at SVJ level are not quite easy and the idea that with some change, which even at the moment would be sewn up maybe a little hot needle, meet SVJ and reset some of its rules seemed undesirable to me. So our ambition is to quickly resolve the question of heat billing and set a decree that is modern and reflects the individual areas. In conclusion, I've kept the item that I'm going to put down: the solution to the housing crisis. I think it's for - let it be security, energy, so it's one of the other important priorities, and I don't think we can look at it as if it's going to work out during the year. I think that the situation in the housing market is a long-term problem of the Czech Republic, which started perhaps after November, after privatisation with the housing fund, those private owners will deal with it as they want, but cities and municipalities, for reasons of either financial or reasons, that the cost of managing the housing fund could seem high, but perhaps - and even a lot of the case we had here historically with privatization of the housing fund, we just got to the moment when the city and municipalities, which actually deal with housing policy, do not have much tools to approach it. Basically, we have been cooking ourselves up for a rather fundamental housing crisis. It's not just the Czech Republic. There are countries that exceptionally have a good system, whether it is Denmark with the support of cooperative housing and a robust co-financing fund, perhaps that is the better case. But, in fact, every other country in the European Union or England has problems with housing availability. And the situation is getting significantly, significantly worse. A lot of historically inconsistent steps have gradually brought us into a situation that needs to be addressed. We have actually dealt with this quite comprehensively all last year, from the construction law I was talking about, through the Housing Support Act to the comprehensive solution to the housing crisis using new programmes and financial instruments, when the primary objective will be to enable municipalities to invest and move construction (?) apartments on the municipal and urban level, and that, and let's face it, will be the trend. And it is also a question of generational and towards the segment of rather rental or cooperative housing, i.e. not a priori as historically in the Czech Republic the property housing is preferred. We have already addressed the preparation of the law to promote housing in opposition, it is being realized. In fact, the first step I took in the area was to strengthen the experts who deal with the issue. We have set up a separation of the concept of accessible housing within the strategy and analysis department. We have set up cooperation with ministries, primarily with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, but also with the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of the Interior, and at the working ministerial level. And I would like to thank Marian Jurečka, who is co-gestor of this law, for a very constructive approach and cooperation. And I think that the Housing Support Act, not the Social Housing Act, which only works with a very small segment of about 100,000 people, but here it goes to a million and maybe more people who are getting into some problems at the moment that you really don't have to deal with social housing, but require a special approach by municipalities, the state. That will be a great success if we succeed. I believe that even colleagues from the opposition, when this law is discussed, will come to the House, will actually appreciate the parameters that... We've written the good ones out of these historical experiments. Now we're working on the RIA, on the impact analysis. We expect to end it in March of this year and then in mid-year we will submit a proposal to the government. The aim is really to help about millions of people who are in a situation of either undignified housing or are at risk of losing their housing, whether they are financial demands not only on the rents themselves or the housing or mortgages themselves, but also on energy. And let us remember that the situation, actually the housing crisis, has other multiplier effects: a worse approach to education, work, etc. Once again, and I have now had the opportunity to talk about it briefly at the meeting with President Zeman, it is one of the priorities and we should make it this year. Well, I believe it will be a success. At the same time, we have prepared two programmes that we would like to launch under the SFPI, the State Investment Support Fund, and we are currently preparing a programme to regenerate brownfields following the National Recovery Plan. He solves the other parts, but they complement each other. The two objectives mentioned above are conditional on the approval of funds still from the State budget; 2023 there is a requirement of CZK 2.1 billion for available housing and then CZK 1.2 billion for brownfields. And we have prepared a proposal for a new component for the National Housing Recovery Plan in order to strengthen the investments and in various forms of the available housing, and here we plan to use funding of CZK 8.5 billion. So I believe that when this update or amendment to the National Recovery Plan is being compiled now, investment in housing and in the future of the necessary financial instruments will find their place and we will be able to combine it, and it is not one pilot PPP project, but indeed in an effective synergy the subsidy money, the money itself, which has ammunition, private capital and sources of funding from, for example, European sources. At the same time, we are trying, and this may be something that is also related to those regions that are perceived as structurally disabled, often spoken by the magical word 'absorption capacity', it is not in the power of small municipalities to pay for the preparation of those projects, whether they are architectural competitions, design, analysis, changes in the zoning plan, such as the project itself, so we would like to, and I do not know why this happened, to return to the National Plan for the renewal of the component 4.1, that is the preparation of the project, the increase of the so-called absorption capacity, that we would actually aim at CZK 1.5 billion in order to prepare those investment projects, to give an instrument to those municipalities that do not have the personnel capacity, and then to build the investments that will come from both European funds and in the form of the instruments on which we work with the Ministry of finance, actually convert the territory and to have the beast, that we can take any source of finance, so we can build municipal apartments in their various forms, rather than just housing, but not just social housing available for a much wider groups of people. [[16.20 hours]] I guess I've summed up the most important thing here - I'm sorry I haven't been longer - the two areas that I'm in charge of in Petr Fiala's government. Maybe I'd just sum them up. The priorities are housing, faster building management, better quality of life in regions and better public procurement. Because that's the state's investment tool to promote a policy that's sustainable. In the area of digitization, these are really the basics for effective, dignified, digitalization, which saves money, times, nerves in the finals. The point is to have a slim state that can share data and actually deal with people's life situations without being bothered by paperwork, bureaucracy and, in fact, by constantly demonstrating the same, or by asking and forwarding from the state. I started today by costing us today's House meeting. I think it's similar to proof that time is just money. This applies both to the state and to the citizens and to the politicians. Digitization is a thing that saves time, saves money, everybody. That's what I want to focus on next year. After all, that is what we promised the citizens. I believe that even the examples that I have set out in those plans show that, in spite of the difficulties of the war in Ukraine, we are still filling the crisis at the turn of last year and the crisis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u26	Thank you, Minister. Have a good afternoon. Before we continue with the next priority rights, I'm gonna load up the apology. Mrs Potůčková Lucie takes back her apology, which she had reported from 14 to 1545 hours for work reasons. On the contrary, Mr Richter apologises from 15.30 to 5 pm for work reasons. As I was saying, we will continue, and with another priority right, Minister Lipavský will speak. Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it has been a year since our government has taken up its responsibilities, and I must say that we really have not been in an easy situation. At first, we faced a covido wave, which the previous government completely underestimated, then triggered a completely senseless war by Putin against Ukraine. We took over the government after the Prime Minister was prosecuted. Today, for the second time, the opposition is trying to inspire distrust of the government, which is why we meet and speak here. I would like to say that foreign policy is a matter which, by its very nature, exceeds a period of one particular government. Foreign policy, by its very nature, goes beyond the limits of how party politics is shaped. Foreign policy is something that must be understandable, trustworthy, and value-solid. Then it makes sense and it is a real foreign policy. When I joined the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on December 17, 2021, I set out five main priorities: the submission of a sanction law, also known as the Magnitský Law; review of relations with Russia and China and say what we can call pro-Western, havelian, policy - I am not ashamed to call it that, and I am proud of it; digitalisation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs; successful management of the Presidency in the Council of the European Union - the Presidency 2022; and economic diplomacy. Of course, at the time I joined the resort, I had no idea Putin was going on a barbaric campaign against Ukraine. This war, which we have witnessed since last February, has affected us all very much. At the same time, it has shown how our government is able to work together under pressure and in crisis. In February, before the outbreak of the war with the Slovak and Austrian counterparts, I visited Ukraine for the first time in the so-called Slavkovsky format. After the outbreak of the war, we adopted the first sanctions against Russia at the extreme Council of the European Union. Since then, others have been working and, of course, the Czech Republic has pushed its way there. Czech Republic supplies and supplies humanitarian and other necessary assistance to affected areas. I went to Ukraine for the second time in July. I must say, I was literally shaken by what I saw in Ukraine after five months. I walked through the streets of a devastated city, saw with my own eyes what war would do and what would cause Russian aggression, which was far from over. Thanks to the courage of Ukraine and our ongoing support and the unity of the West, Putin has failed to achieve his goals. The size of the occupied territory has decreased since spring, and I firmly believe that Ukraine will be able to defend its entire territory. Russia's war crimes in Ukraine are not in the 21st century. Putin a gangster, he's never had enough and he wants more. If we retreat to Putin as Babišův's friend Viktor Orbán might wish, we know exactly how this is going to turn out. We all know that Russia is responsible for the suffering of Ukraine and the problems facing Europe here. So retreating scaredly to Rusko is like giving a gangster a gun. He'll be knocking on the door again in a week and he'll want more. It follows that stopping Russia is in the interests of our own security and is an absolute necessity. That is why we are talking about the fact that the perpetrators of war crimes are to stand trial, and we do not want Putin to be able to unilaterally dictate the terms of peace. Of course, we cannot ignore Russia's position, but at the same time we must not let ourselves be appeased by the vision of some peace conferences or seeming appeased. We must not act like Chamberlain in 1938 at a table with someone who is unwilling to act. My next priority at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs after taking office was the submission of a sanction law. The government passed this law on 22 June and sent it to the House. Here I would like to remind myself that in times of war and crisis, it was the YES movement that brought this law to light in an accelerated regime and adopted it at first reading. However, I would like to thank you, on the other hand, that the law has passed with the support of your movement. This sanction law ensures better protection of human rights. I've been working on it as an MP in the last parliamentary term. So I am delighted that it has been fulfilled, that it is paying. We will find him in the Collection of Laws under number 1/2023 and now the Ministry is working hard to adopt the first sanctions for the Czech Republic. Speaking of human rights, I would like to remind you that last May, the Czech Republic replaced Russia in the UN Human Rights Council. The Czech Republic is dedicated to traditional topics such as freedom of the media, freedom of assembly or association or support of cooperation with NGOs. We play a more active role there, and we want to play an even more active role in defending human rights. That is why we have announced the candidacy for the presidency of the UN Human Rights Council, we have successfully won, and Ambassador Bálek is now its chairman, we are chairing this year. [[16.30 hours]] Of course, it has been said here several times that at the beginning of July we took over the imaginary relay stake from the Francouz and the Czech Presidency in the Council of the European Union was launched. I must say, it was the previous government that left the preparations in no good condition. First of all, we have dealt with the low number of staff assigned to the Presidency, a matter that our government has no longer had time to change, but we have kept what we promised when we ran, and the Presidency has been dignified. We have advocated, and very successfully, Czech interests. We have been able to respond to geopolitical change and we have faced a number of challenges and urgent tasks that we have managed very well as a Presidency. I would like to say that thanks to intensive work not only by individual ministers but also by all diplomats, real diplomats, we can see the Czech Republic in Europe. During the Presidency, we have clearly shown that the Czech Republic does not suffer from any of the complexes of a small country that the previous government has occasionally passed us on to, and we have certainly not done the image of some screaming troublemaker. We have explained very effectively to our Central and Eastern European perspective to Western European countries and have sometimes made it quite assertively clear to our partners what our position is and what our security interests are. We did all this during the Russian war against Ukraine. And I think we have shown that we have a solid place in a democratic Europe, that we can conduct constructive dialogue, that we keep promises and that we pay for a trusted partner. I would like to repeat some of the important achievements of the Czech Presidency. Accession talks with Albania and North Macedonia were launched, Bosnia and Herzegovina received candidate status for the European Union in December 2022. During the Czech Presidency in the Council of the European Union, the visa liberalisation for Kosovo was negotiated. Let me just remind you that Kosovo fulfilled the conditions for the visa regime in 2018. During the Presidency, the Czech Republic strongly supported the contested Ukraine. The macroeconomic financial assistance package of EUR 18 billion for Ukraine has also been achieved. Such a thing that has not been fully mediated, but during our Presidency, a meeting of the Association Council between the European Union and Israel was convened, which took place after more than ten years. Croatia will enter Schengen. And, for example, here in Prague at an informal meeting of foreign ministers at the end of August, a compromise was reached to suspend the visa facilitation agreement between the European Union and Russia, followed by the Prague Gymnich then the Baltic States and Finland adopted national measures which led to a reduction in the number of Russian tourists crossing the land border. It was not just about Russia and Ukraine, for example, with my counterparts I supported the imposition of sanctions against Iran, precisely aimed at Iranian officials and entities supplying drones to Ukraine, but also involved in the disgusting political executions of human rights demonstrators. I think that the topic of energy advice here in the House has been discussed for quite a long time and it is also a clear success of the Czech Presidency. To avoid just talking about the European Union and Ukraine, 2022 was also successful in terms of the development of transatlantic cooperation. The United States is a strategic partner for us. Personally, I was in the United States twice, in April and September. Of course, we also maintain contact with the United States on the basis of the North Atlantic Alliance. One of the priorities of the Czech Presidency was the deepening of cooperation between the European Union and NATO. A specific document has now been signed freshly in January already under the Swedish Presidency, but it has also been our Presidency, which has pushed very hard to bring this thing to an end. So I also dealt with my counterpart, Antony Blinken, briefly met a number of prominent politicians in New York, among them with Joe Biden. We do not forget the rest of the world, the neglected areas of the Indo-Pacific, which take on strategic importance. We have a strategy and this year we will focus on this area even more. The government has also approved a strategy for Africa. I was talking about digitalization. Of course, these issues will continue this year. At the resort I repair the legacy of past governments, where IT systems are not in very good condition. From a security point of view, it's a big priority. We have set up a new section on these issues. I would like to stress that we are not increasing the number of civil servants. It's a reorganisation. As a result, if all of this goes well, the new DROZD application will be for our citizens so that we can inform and warn them when they travel abroad. Another priority is economic diplomacy with emphasis on science, research and innovation, because our companies make excellent innovations and we need to promote the brand that is something from the Czech Republic, more selling in the world. That's what we're working on. Surely we also want to protect our intellectual property against theft, our patents, so that we do not make cheap plagiarism abroad, for example. We also do various conferences, business delegations and so on for this purpose. I've been talking a lot about what our government is doing, but I think it's also appropriate to talk a little bit about what our government isn't doing. It may be forgotten, but it's been a long year, and I was talking about foreign policy being about clarity, credibility and value fort, so I'd like to remind you how it was ruled before us. As, of course, this meeting is inevitably held before the second round of the presidential elections, it makes no sense to lie that this is not the reason why we are meeting here today, although, somehow, the head of the opposition is not present in the House and is not represented by President Schillerová. The idea of Andrej Babiš about foreign policy is very naive. Our government idea is definitely not naive. We don't think the world is full of friends and friends on your mobile phone. We are aware that foreign policy is hard work, where it is necessary to obtain systematically and trustworthyly and to create a credible partnership. Therefore, I was quite elevated from the chair to use the word diplomat in the election campaign because I think it's disrespect that it's a gross disregard for the work of real diplomats, not to mention the way he leaned into soldiers, of dragging us into war. I thought that was just plain rude. Our army is putting lives on the line for our safety. And not only the military, but all the security forces, the police, are taking the debts that the presidential candidate has been pledging in the television debate. On the contrary, the army protects us from the war. We know that the Army of the Czech Republic has long-term confidence in three quarters of the population of the Czech Republic, and I think citizens know best who protects the security of the Czech Republic. So I am sorry to try to undermine this good work by thousands of soldiers and soldiers and all members of the security forces. What is diplomacy? Diplomacy is the art of negotiating, it's a skillful procedure, it's not cheap marketing tricks that a person tries to transform into their own personal benefit. And I think what the last government did, after which we inherited foreign policy, was more of an agrod diplomacy. When Andrej Babiš visited his friend Viktor Orbán in 2021, soon thereafter Agrofert received a $100 million grant. I wonder what they were talking about. The result of the economic diplomacy of the previous government was already mentioned almost 100% dependence of the Czech Republic on Russian gas. [[16.40 hours]] I think it is important that the Czech Republic be represented by a person who is understandable, trustworthy and value-solid. I'll mention two more episodes like this. One episode, and here I would like to speak for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, for the government, was the visit of the presidential candidate at the Elysian Palace, which really cannot be described as anything other than a private marketing meeting, not an act of diplomacy. If this were an act of diplomacy, at such a significant moment, Czech foreign policy would undoubtedly be consulted, and this did not happen in any way. It's true that there was, or was information that the meeting was going to take place. However, in order for the interests of the Czech Republic to be supported - and for the foreign policy of the Czech Republic, the government is responsible from its principle and from the Constitution under the law - it would have to come to ask what is burning us, what we need to stress at the Elysian Palace. There was no such thing, there was no consultation, and logically it was a marketing meeting, a personal election PR. Of course, if the candidate had come and asked, he would have known that France, like the Czech Republic, supports the Zelenský ten-point peace plan. The Czech Republic is also looking for specific points that could be more supportive to choose one specific point. This ten-point peace plan, according to our information, is supported by the G7 as well as French foreign policy, including Macron, according to the public statements. So I don't know what kind of peace plan Andrej Babiš was talking about there. And I'm afraid from the few hints that were made from his media statements, that sounded like Mnichov for Ukraine. That totally freaks me out. When Andrej Babiš spoke of a peace plan, about wanting to make a summit, I remembered it wasn't the first time, he had come up with such a plan once. And it was under his rule that Jan Hamáček was Minister of Foreign Affairs. This is not known very much, as it has passed away, a document was published, an official document by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and it says: Prague's offer as a venue for the US - Russia summit. The Czech Republic offers Prague as a venue for the Biden - Putin Summit, so we would follow up on the 2009 Obama - Medveděv Summit. We ask the Washington representative office and the Moscow representative office to interpret this offer by diplomatic means to the appropriate places. - This is the official document of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which happened when Andrej Babiš was Prime Minister, and it happened 14. 4. What happened three days later? I'll refresh your memory. The famous press conference took place in the afternoon when Prime Minister Andrej Babiš announced that Russian agents were involved in the bombings in Vrbětice. Then we all know it, ultimatum, expulsion. Don't be mad at me, it's not foreign policy, it's total chaos. That's no way to do foreign policy. It's not understandable, it's not credible. It's completely pointless. And that's why I'm saying that Andrej Babiš is not a diplomat, but an undignified pro-Russian chaotic. [[Speech of disapproval of Members YES, screams ew!, pounding into benches.]] There's no point repeating all the anabasses, with Sputnik's purchase, with Dukovany, with Russian gas, that's been said a number of times. I am therefore glad - to end up on a positive note - that I am therefore glad, honourable Members, that our government has taken up our tasks with dignity. I think that after a year of the difficult situation, the war situation, it is clear that we are fulfilling our government's programming statement, as we ran with it, as we presented it in the House, as we gained confidence in it. And I believe we can take the vote today. I believe, and I am working on it every day and working with my colleagues, that we are returning foreign policy to the Western direction, that we are returning it to the dignity it deserves, as well as the value fortress. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u28	Thank you, Minister. With another priority right, Minister Černochová will perform. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u29	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Perhaps at the beginning of my speech I will sigh a little, because trust in the government and distrust of the government is always taken as a holiday to democracy in the Chamber of Deputies. In fact, we have this vote for the second time, we asked for trust for the first time, we voted twice, or there was a distrust on your proposal. It seems to me that it is undignified that the callers of this vote or of distrust of our government here are actually only present in such a negligible number. If you wanted to hear our evaluation of the programme statement or the year we work in our departments, why aren't you here? You had a wonderful opportunity to hear us here, take notes, when it comes to the debate, then discuss it with us. And you're not here. You call for mistrust, and then you don't come to work. Shame on you! [[Screams: Ugh! Let's hear it for the coalition.]] Although I presented my annual work at the Ministry of Defence as Secretary of Defense at the beginning of 2023, I had a press conference to do so today, I wanted to inform your colleagues on the Defence Committee, which was convened but had to retreat from this meeting. Material The year on defense, which looks like this, is available on the website of the Ministry of Defence, so any of you who want to know how I implement the program statement has a unique option. [[shows]] Ladies and gentlemen, when Petr Fiala introduced me to the Ministry of Defence on Sunday, or on Saturday 18 December 2022, I knew that I wanted to introduce the 10th Minister of Defence for Defence in the first days for the defence and defence of the Czech Republic. [[2021]] So let me break down the various chapters of this tenor and tell you how these chapters are implemented. As you know, without a budget, there is no army. And in 2022, we pushed through the Ministry of Defence's budget with expenses of 89.1 billion, which is 1.35% of GDP. We have in the programme statement that we want to have 2% of GDP by 2025. You also know because Prime Minister Fiala has already informed you that we are preparing an update of our programming statement these days precisely because of the war that is taking place in the immediate vicinity of our country and which we need to adapt to some chapters. [[16.50 hours]] Of course, one of those chapters that we need to adapt is defence, namely that we would like to achieve 2% of GDP by 2024. We have a good step towards this, because at this point, you already know that, in line with the statement, the current declaration of our government, we have CZK 111.8 billion in the approved budget. This is 1.51% of GDP for 2023. So we are really going to meet the target of 2% of GDP in defence in 2024, which is supported by both the Prime Minister and all the ministers of the Fialův Government. And I would like to thank them for that, just as I would like to thank all my colleagues in the Chamber of Deputies who support us in this increase in the Ministry of Defence budget. At the same time, I would like to assure you that these sentences about not being able to exhaust the budget because no minister has ever done it in the past, so I would like to introduce you to the Ministry of Defence department for 2022. Although last year, in 2022, we managed the Ministry of Defence with the highest budget in modern history, we managed to drain almost all the allocated money. We are clearly showing that the current defence can effectively draw on budget resources, that these defence investments are aimed at strengthening the security of all of us, as we have assumed. In 2022, the defense department managed a total amount of CZK 92.7 billion, which, as I said before, is historically the highest amount. In addition, at the beginning of the year, a war broke out in Ukraine, to which it was necessary to respond immediately in terms of defence acquisitions and strengthening our country's defences. You remember the budget increase, too. We have, of course, dealt with other consequences, because the conflict in Ukraine has stirred up the global market for military material, which has resulted in an extension of delivery times and unfortunately sometimes also an increase in prices, because of course this also causes war, that, as other countries that are afraid of some possible conflict, so they are trying to catch up with the modernisation of their armies, so, in fact, at the moment, there are arms races going on between countries. And I'm always talking about it as queues, who's used to line up for some military material, so he's got a chance to get it for cheaper money, and before anybody else. Despite all this, only 1.9 billion are transferred from the total amount of CZK 92.7 billion to the next year, which is 0.3 billion, 0.3 billion less than in 2021 when this resort was led by my predecessor. The percentage of these unused expenditures in the overall budget, which still accounted for almost 8% in 2016, is also falling. Unfortunately, the largest amount, more than CZK 700 million from unused expenditure, is my predecessor within the European Union, which unfortunately has not been spent, but which will continue this year, because of course we do not want to lose these subsidies. On the other hand, we're left hanging in that budget. For the other more than 300 million, these are problems on the part of suppliers that were related to the security situation, or also to the pandemic covid-19. CZK 283.7 million is savings. You can hear well, savings from the acquisition process and funds that have not been invoiced by the end of the year for objective reasons. Furthermore, it is 280 million non-acquisition current expenditure arising from foreign exchange payments at the time of the favourable exchange rate of the koruna against the dollar and the euro, which is de facto a savings of state resources. Another more than 200 million accounts for saving in the area of mandatorial spending. This is specifically due to the fact that a lower number of soldiers served on foreign missions in the finals than originally envisaged and what appropriations were budgeted. The management result for 2022 highlights the government's maximum efforts to implement its programming declaration, in which it undertook to accelerate the modernisation of the military, increase defence spending and their effective spending. So much for the first chapter of my tenor. I also add that we have also developed a law on State Defense Financing regarding financing and future funding, which will ensure stable planning and financing of multi-annual strategic military projects, which we also lack in the long term. And not only us as politicians, we lack them mainly the army, the soldiers, because they need to plan, too, with regard to what international groups we are in, so of course, as the security environment changes, some security strategies are changing. And we must now adapt to these threats. In addition, the State Defence Finance Act should therefore establish a State's obligation to issue at least 2% of GDP in defence and define other state budget expenditures that can be counted as defence expenditure. It's a shame we didn't do it long ago, because defense is not only a matter of the Ministry of Defence, but also of other state institutions, other departments. And so it's a shame that we haven't counted some of the items before. I'd like to mention a two here from my tenor, and that's realistic planning and easier acquisition. If my predecessor, former Minister Metnar, were to sit here, he would agree with me that this is actually a huge problem for our army. That is why we have tabled legislative proposals to simplify defence acquisitions and we are working on adjusting internal acquisition and planning processes at the Ministry of Defence. We also want to start, and my predecessor has already taken some steps in this, and now we have actually tried to move it back from the level of deputy or section directors, revision of acquisition planning and especially life cycle provision. This is something that has bothered all of my predecessors, and I firmly believe that in this parliamentary term we will be able to set up that if we purchase some significant acquisition, it will be secured, including the very life cycle. We have also accelerated the acquisition of new technology and weapons for the military by submitting an amendment to the Public Procurement Act with regard to the specifics of defence acquisitions. This will remove the main obstacles and shortcomings of the law. Here we stress that the processing of defence acquisition specifications will follow up on the processing of market surveys, while older market surveys are updated before they are submitted to the acquisition workplace. Here you may recall, especially colleagues from the Committee on Defence from the previous parliamentary term, that in fact during the last parliamentary term contracts were concluded according to actually market surveys, which were sometimes up to six or seven years old, and then we were terribly surprised why the increase in those prices was some fifty, sixty percent. This should not happen in the future. Therefore, we have given some time frame to keep market surveys up-to-date and not to refer to market surveys of six years old. [[17,00 hours]] Modernization of the army - I could talk about it here for maybe three whole days. But I'll try it in a nutshell. A threesome in my tenure. On the basis of the military recommendation and the government's decision, we are therefore negotiating with the US government on the purchase of fifth-generation supersonic aircraft. The negotiations will take place until September 2023. We will then present the results of this negotiation to the government, of course, to both committees, and we will discuss it. Because this is where I was talking about the queues. And this decision really needs to be made as soon as possible, because the purchase and acquisition of supersonic aircraft is considered by many surrounding countries around us. Some already, some of these countries are already in that queue, and we should therefore make this decision as soon as possible. At this point, it's really not about being clear, so we're just going into this contract. It's not the only way. That is why this negotiation is limited in time so that we can possibly have more room to negotiate and buy, for example, with some other entities. But, as I say, negotiations are taking place intensively at the moment, and in September we will all learn the results of this negotiation. Infantry combat vehicles. Who you are here for the longer term, the repeated next term, so you know that this tender was also downgraded here in the past, perhaps even in the past. Because actually, when we look into the history of the infantry acquisition of combat vehicles, they go back, the history of the tender goes somewhere until 2010, when actually the first mention of infantry combat vehicles appeared in the White Paper on Defense, which was presented by one of my predecessors, Mr. Alexandr Vondra. Well, it's 2023, and we still don't have infantry combat vehicles, even though we may have found light at the end of the tunnel and the negotiations with the Swedish side are going very well. By the way, on Friday I am excused from the possible meeting of the Chamber of Deputies because we have the so-called Ramstein Group, and on the edge of this meeting in Ramstein I will also have a very important meeting, a bilateral meeting with the Swedish Defence Minister, where we will mention this topic. So first, we had to deal with what was in the past around the infantry vehicles. So we had to cancel the unsuccessful and ineffective tender, which was still written by my predecessor, and with the agreement of the government, we are discussing the purchase of CV90 vehicles with the Swedish Government in order to get the necessary heavy equipment as quickly as possible and fulfill our own obligations, not only NATO's commitments, to create a heavy brigade, but it is a difficult brigade in all of our strategic documents, and without a heavy brigade we will not be able to do it. Indeed, even the war in Ukraine shows that conventional methods of fighting are still up to date. But in addition to these conventional methods of fighting, i.e. the heavy technology, of course, new elements are coming, whether they are unmanned vehicles or even actually various air strikes. The negotiations on the acquisition of infantry combat vehicles have been coordinated and we are still coordinating with Slovakia, which has gone the same way, thereby achieving more favourable conditions. And I would really like to be able to tell you here in the near future that the price won't be higher than the price was actually planned in some estimates, and we're doing everything we can for that. Although, of course, I also mentioned that military material after the outbreak of Russian... the outbreak of the war in Ukraine caused by Russian aggression, so the military material unfortunately gets more expensive every hour. By the way, we also agreed with the United States Government of America, and I am very happy for that. It was the subject of my dealings with Mr. Defense Minister Austin both in Washington D.C. and in Prague. We agreed that the army would receive an additional 8 free of charge for those 12 U.S. H-1 helicopters. Perhaps you might be interested, I found out yesterday, and I think you'll recall the half-billion-dollar fine given to Mr. Metnar for his acquisition by the Office for the Protection of Competition. Minister Metnar has filed a lawsuit. Now, finally, in this or next week, this lawsuit will be discussed, and it will be a question of whether it will be possible to get that half a billion back, and if it proves that the Department of Defense, under the leadership of my predecessors, has messed up or messed up the tender. Anyway, it's important to the army that he has helicopters. And I'm glad I managed, along with my team at the Department of Defense, to negotiate the other eight pieces, Vipers, Venoms. We are holding a platform which, of course, was negotiated with the American party by Prime Minister Babiš and Secretary of Defense Metnar. We actively address the issue of groundbreaking technologies and artificial intelligence at the Department of Defence. As part of the Ministry of Defence's capability planning section, for example, mushrooms will be created for the implementation of groundbreaking technologies into the military environment. We are also working very hard to accelerate the purchase of new and upgraded old wheel armored Pandur transporters for the fourth rapid deployment brigade, the so-called call. We modernize the seventh mechanized brigade with Leopard 2A4 tanks donated from Germany. Here, I would also like to thank the outgoing Minister of the Federal Republic of Germany, who actually negotiated with me and my colleagues, the Prime Minister at the Chancellor's level - this delivery, this gift of 15 Leopard tanks. In fact, our prime ministers agreed on this, and Mrs Lambrecht and I negotiated further terms. You must have noticed that in December just before Christmas holidays one Leopard 2A4 had already arrived in Práslavice. And I must say that I very much appreciate the fact that the Czech Republic has really managed to appreciate the support of Ukraine in this form. [[17.10 hours]] The Minister of Foreign Affairs mentioned here that those countries that may even go to other, more modern platforms now have the will to donate something to countries that still use Soviet technology as the Czech Republic, and now it is also an opportunity to get rid of this technique by doing their service in Ukraine, but we will improve our ability to have more modern machines. By the way Leopard tanks - and now I'm sorry that Vlastík Válek is not here, because it is his favorite tank, you must know that the Minister of Health likes to play tank games, so I internally call him Leoparde, so Vlastík Válek is absolutely excited that this tank will be in the equipment of our army. [[Smile in the hall]] And I have to say, he's assured me again here, not only soldiers and not only experts, but also people who like tank battles, that it's exactly the model that can be modernised until the seven, which is exactly what we want and need. We started the acquisition of a tactical unmanned vehicle, which can be armed with urgent purchases, we keep adding ammunition, cannons, wheel vehicles and other systems - as I was saying, I could talk about this here for three days. In a record-breaking short period of time, we signed a contract for 15-year lease of an exclusive UHF satellite band, allowing the military to communicate safely over a distance of up to 10,000 kilometers. This, by the way, is also something that we have missed and that my colleagues and I have been able to acquire in practically record time. You know, I'm actually presenting our achievements here in quotes not only to the government, but to the achievements of our entire resort. These aren't the achievements of the secretary or deputy. These are the achievements of the entire team at the resorts. And let me thank my colleagues at the Ministry of Defence in this way, too, because we are really trying to catch up on things that have been neglected for a long time since the war broke out in Ukraine last year, and not just my predecessors from the past years, but neglected for a long time. Here we really must all politicians who have been in politics for a long time, we have been representatives of different parties, in various ways these governments have alternated, actually sprinkled ashes on our heads, and say that the modernization of the military is neglected because of all the governments that have ruled here in recent years. This year, by the way, we will celebrate 30 years of the Army of the Czech Republic, because when the Federation was divided, the Army of the Czech Republic was formed. And we didn't really buy her much in those 30 years, and what we bought was the subject of various controversy, speculation, sometimes criminal proceedings, court cases. And I would very much like us to actually manage not only to buy what they deserve right now, but also to make the process more transparent, to make it clear that when soldiers say "we know what we want," so that it really is and will insist on it, they won't need to be forced to retreat from some of these things, because those strategic documents, whether it's the KVACR or other documents that are created by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and we're there to create the folder that concerns defense, so there's no easy way to change it, you're going to change it, and then suddenly it's going to appear in the next budget. Unfortunately, this is a very complex process and we are dealing with it in some way, and I think that quite well and that even the opposition cannot criticise us for not trying on our part to do the things that my predecessors have been running into in the long run, your ministers, especially in those last stages, where ministers have been there for more than eight years for the ANO movement, have been dealing with it. And I think they see for themselves that some things can be dealt with rather quickly. Research, development, innovation. Another point from my tenor. Here we deepen the cooperation of state enterprises with the Czech defence industry, universities, universities. In 2022, the Military Research Institute significantly increased investment in its own research and development infrastructure and started preparing two major infrastructure investments. It is an extension and modernisation of the laboratory building, a section of chemical, biological, radiation protection, as well as the construction of a multifunctional storage and production hall. On the margins, in 2022, the volume of VVÚ's cooperation with the Czech defence industry amounted to about 1.5 billion crowns. Very successfully, and I am glad for that, is also developing cooperation between the University of Defence, VVÚ and other entities. The Military Technical Institute adopted a total of five internal research and development projects at the beginning of 2022 to develop and support the latest weapons technologies in favor of the military. I can all mention the project control system for a high-speed unmanned target and it should be successfully completed these days. Furthermore, I would also like to present how we implement support for the defence industry in our programme statement. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a spell that all the defense ministers, which all governments say, say, is that it is necessary for us not only to send the heavily accumulated funds into military supplies that are supplied abroad. So we want the Czech defence industry to really benefit from it, so that the Czech Republic will benefit from it. Because when the Czech defence industry employs our citizens, it pays taxes here, it has factories here, these people live here, so of course it has the added value of another economic that the funds are multiplying. It is not only about taxes, but it is also about the fact that these companies actually provide some additional background for employment here. Honestly, I think we all wish that the unemployment rate might be a little different, because we have a shortage of employees. Therefore, I am also very pleased that we have managed to arrange for the employment of some Ukrainian engineers, technicians, people who can participate and participate in some development projects within the framework of our joint cluster. And this is already happening, so we are also glad that it is possible to use these people too to move forward in our own defence, namely in the defence of other states. [[17.20 hours]] Here I would like to mention what we have already managed to do in this support of the defense industry. We have succeeded in implementing the amendment of the Foreign Trade Act with military material, which will allow support for export of the Czech defence industry through G2G contracts, government-government. That positive impact on the defence industry will also have the State Defense Finance Act. I already talked about him there. I don't want to say it again. Potential suppliers will be better prepared for planned projects, because, as I said, the military is planning these things for a long time, it has them in its strategic documents, and it doesn't change from minute to minute. As I also mentioned, there is an agreement with Ukraine on the creation of joint Czech-Ukrainian enterprises, a so-called cluster for the production and supply of military equipment, which is again something that will help our Czech industry in a very crucial way, because it is not only about those people, but of course it is about some know-how and that we in our country create a greater degree of self-sufficiency in those issues that are actually now proving that perhaps in the past they should have been dealt with differently, that some businesses should not have been transferred from the state, that they should have remained owned by the state, because, in the form of some countries like Poland, which have quite a lot of arms state enterprises, so you can see how they are driving. They not only help Ukraine, but, of course, they also strengthen their own defenses because they have Rus on the border. We are finalizing the agreement with Ghana to support the supply of rifles CZ BREN 2 and other military material from the company Česká abrojovka, a. s. A similar agreement is being prepared with the Philippines, and there it is to support the export of L 410 NG aircraft for the Coast Guard. When I was in Vietnam for practically one and a half days before Christmas, we also negotiated the sale of aircraft produced by Czech companies in Vietnam, which is produced by AERO Vodochody. I think that this is the best thing we can do as ministers - promote companies, our companies, good companies that have good reputations abroad, so that abroad really once again, emphasis is placed on the fact that the Czech Republic is a country that has very capable people, it has very good know-how on various things that relate not only to production. But we don't just want to be assembly workers, but of course we want to invent new technologies and I think we're succeeding. And it is really about the fact that there are a number of people who have something to offer not only to us as a Ministry of Defence within the Czech Republic, but to companies that are competitive and we should support them, which we are trying to do. The amendment of the Act on Insurance and Financing of Export with State Aid has created a special category of aid for so-called export-oriented enterprises. These companies include the majority of the main national manufacturers of military equipment. We are also seeking to expand the financial possibilities of the Czech Export Bank to support the export of military material. I'm just gonna do it again, too, because I'm billating that year like you wanted me to. In April 2002, when I visited Washington D.C., my first visit to Washington, together with U.S. Defense Minister Austin, I concluded an intergovernmental agreement on mutual procurement of materials and services for defence purposes, which also makes it easier for companies of the Czech defence industry to penetrate the US market. So it's not true that there's only one direction and that we're only shopping abroad. On the contrary, we are trying to export abroad, so that it is not only about importing military material into our country, but that export has better conditions than it was in the past, and we have succeeded in changing that legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, the next point in my tenure is recruiting for the 21st century. That's actually what I am, and now I'm kind of blaming myself, maybe it should have started ten times, because people are the most important thing that we need to do with everything we have on those other points. And if we don't have good people, if we can't meet our targets, which are also according to strategic documents by 2030, 30,000 soldiers, 10,000 active backup members, it's gonna be bad because we're gonna have the best modernized technique, but there's not gonna be anyone on that technique who's gonna fly it, who's gonna ride it, who's gonna serve it, and that's bad, too. That is why practically the first step I had to take at the Ministry of Defence was to re-enact recruitment, because for an incomprehensible reason - or perhaps an understandable reason - I was sitting here, so I know that my colleagues from YES here were blackmailing representatives of the Communist Party about raising the budget, and my predecessor had to cut somewhere. Unfortunately, he was looking for those resources in those people, so he stopped recruiting, and we had to renew those recruitments, because otherwise we would never have reached the 30,000 soldiers in 2030 and 10,000 members of the active backup in 2030. So, by reducing the recruitment targets in 2021, as I said, unfortunately, in this respect, my predecessor gave way to the pressure, so in March 2022, I had to increase the recruitment targets from 1,100 to 1,800 newly recruited professional soldiers. We are trying, and we are still working on it, to improve the material security of military recruitment centres allowing, among other things, online communication. And also the gradual revitalization of the environment of individual workplaces will be launched, because, frankly, today's young people work in a way that they want to work in an environment that is somehow modern, where when you walk into offices, you don't feel like you're in a Tank battalion. And unfortunately, it's not exactly everywhere. So if we want to recruit young people, not only soldiers, not only intelligence officers, not only military police officers, but also officials at our department, then we have to offer them an appropriate environment. And this is also a big topic, because unfortunately, even those buildings that may look plentiful from the outside have survived. Indeed, some of the buildings used by the military are sometimes over 150 years old, and they have not been invested properly. And you can still see the remains of socialist realism, where some frescoes were painted over some... Some oil paintings or other paintings were put there, and the environment is really unpleasant, and you just can't get a young person into such an environment. So that's the material security I was talking about. [[17.30 hours]] Over the summer, we want to launch a recruitment campaign that will actually be under the virtual center we're creating. At this point, a recruitment campaign is underway - for example, a new generation liaison. The virtual center is already in some outlines, maybe it's a little more complicated than we thought at the beginning. Here I'm hoping that when I file the 2023 accounts, I can say we have a functional recruitment center, because the IT issue really isn't easy at all. And unfortunately, our resort in some technologies and in some systems also lags behind and in the recruitment center everything has to be compatible with what we already have at the resort. Otherwise, recruiting in an online environment should include, and maybe I think it just might entertain the young generation, may include a training program, may include 3D simulations, video interviews just with those recruiters. Because if you're talking to those people who had the will to join the army in the beginning and then changed their minds, why change their minds, you know what they're gonna say? We haven't heard from anyone in three months, five months, six months. We wrote some kind of e-mail, and no one responded. And you're gonna lose these people because these people might not be able to get back to you if they're not persistent and fierce. But despite that, the virtual recruitment center will actually be able to communicate online, so these people will have someone against each other who will respond to what they need. And I promise myself that it will really help us meet the targets of 30,000 soldiers. Here you also know about it, we have it here sometime at the first reading at the next meeting perhaps, we have submitted an amendment to the law, which brings new benefits for soldiers in active reserve, because the active backup today is an integral part of our army. After all, the need for an active backup has shown itself, for example, now that active backups have actively cooperated in border surveillance due to the migration crisis that has come to us from the Balkan countries. Well, just so you know, we've managed to replace and deploy, fast-track, about 700 active backup members. That's not enough. And when I had the opportunity to talk to those soldiers, and there was a Mr. Flek with me when we had the opportunity to talk to those members of the active backup, the soldiers, they said, that's the first time that led us out like this. So I have to say that we were happy for that, and that this is actually something that we want to try on just the fitability of the members of the active backup. But since there are also few active backup members and we want more of them, we need to add benefits. For members of the active advance we give a recruitment and stabilization allowance, we give there the possibility of using military material and services outside the profession, paying the costs associated with deployment and so on. In fact, we have already given an order by the Secretary and Chief of Staff to allow soldiers in active reserve to take advantage of the R &amp; D sports grounds, which has not been done before. They may be small things for someone, but for those people who have a normal civilian profession and are practically engaged in training themselves to be an integral part of the Army of the Czech Republic, so that, if needed, they will be deployed and assisted, I take it that it is our duty to provide those people with a more dignified environment and conditions so that if they are already twice citizens, they can benefit from it. We have launched, and we also promise ourselves that someone may decide to be a professional soldier after graduating, so we have launched a scholarship program for high school students focusing on professions that the army lacks in the long term. So far, this is a pilot project, which we will expand after evaluation. We're also working on a scholarship program for college students. And even the topic of higher education, which is under our department, you know that we have the University of Defence, we have a school in Moravian Třebová, a secondary school and a higher vocational school, we have a secondary and higher vocational school in Sokolov. And here, of course, we also want to get students into these schools of ours, and we want those successful graduates to actually join the army or the armed forces. Prepping citizens to defend the state - that terrible shortcut POKOS, maybe you've gotten used to it, as I've said with humour several times, the army loves shortcuts and has them practically everywhere. I think every new minister for the first month doesn't know what his colleagues are talking about, because they're talking in the very shortcuts, so then you're going to get a notepad where they're described. So POKOS is preparing citizens to defend the state. It's a project that's already got ten, maybe 12 years in a row. And a little thanks to the covid, here I certainly don't blame my predecessor, he was obsessed, because just as our state stagnated in a lot of things, it wasn't normally taught in schools, nor could POKOS work. We have restarted the system of preparing citizens to defend the state. So just now in the last year of 2022, we have an 85 percent increase in the presentation of POKOS in schools. But yes, the number is misleading, because in recent years nothing could be presented, because the online teaching is not quite the best. We have launched a pilot project in the Moravian-Silesian Region, which could certainly be of interest to colleagues from this region, to the involvement of external personnel from soldiers in active reserve and former professional soldiers, including soldiers with the status of war veteran, to POKOS and we plan to extend this project to all regions. I must say that indeed the Moravian-Silesian Region is an absolutely exemplary region in this regard with regard to recruitment, including the involvement of schools and all institutions in these projects. Thank you so much for that. I think it's for some deeper sociological study, why that is. If it was just that it was a region where there were a lot of miners, miners who were closing down mines, then those people were going to have to serve the state within the army, I don't know. In any case, when I study recruitment targets in individual regions, the Moravian-Silesian region always has the greatest success in recruitment. Good job, I guess. Thank you. The army, in cooperation with the defence department in 2022, organized nearly a hundred defence competitions with the participation of around 6,000 pupils. It provided over 130 project days in schools with over 16 000 pupils. And she's trained, please, to pay attention to this number, because it's huge, she's trained over 1,200 teachers in the POKOS area. Our soldiers also try to visit summer children's camps during their free time and during their jobs. And I have to say, there were just three dozen of them in the ROOM. I think it's fine. I went to see one of them last summer. And I also thank you for this activity. [[17.40 hours]] We strengthen workplaces focusing on POKOS, preparing further measures for even closer cooperation of the resort with associations and interest associations. This is, in fact, also some of the subject of our debates in the framework of the upcoming legislation, and we certainly still have something to catch up on The separate chapter of my tenure is made up of veterans and traditions. You know, as a municipal politician, as mayor of Prague 2, I started the War Veterans Day project on November 11th, because I was always terribly sorry that only some places on this day and only for the invited ones were taking place in our Republic. I've always wanted these events to have a more spontaneous character. So that even the young generation, people who don't actually remember the trucks, do not remember the basic military service, when it was quite common to meet soldiers in the streets - I live my whole life in Prague, so in the streets of Prague - so they actually have a unique opportunity to meet those soldiers or, in general, members of the armed forces at these events. As mayor, I actually started doing War Veterans Day on Peace Square. Besides, where else should war veterans' day be celebrated than in Peace Square? And I have to say, this event has a higher and higher attendance rate every year. I would like to thank all the defense ministers who have always come to them or their Deputys, so even from the Ministry of Defence, it had long-term support. And here I would like to ask a great deal of you Members from different regions: Try to motivate your captains, your mayors, your mayors in this sense. Because Vítkov is definitely an amazing place, an amazing memorial place where we all love to go. On the other hand, not everyone can get to those pie acts. And if we're actually going to raise and build in that positive sense some respect for traditions, some respect for old age, some respect for people who have done something, I think it's a unique opportunity. Then maybe it wouldn't have happened that there was what was on the billboards. We are preparing the establishment of a new community centre for war veterans in Tábor and are planning to extend these centres to other regions. I am a little sorry that my colleague Metnar, who is from the Moravian-Silesian Region, is not sitting here right now and with whom we discussed the question of building the community centre in the Moravian-Silesian Region. He was actually negotiating an object, but... unfortunately, the financial difficulty of the building, the reconstruction of the building is enormous, so here I would like to assure you that I certainly have not forgotten the promise of the former minister to build a community center in the Moravian-Silesian region. This region certainly deserves it as one of the first, given what I said a little while ago, but we're going another way, we're trying to find some space there for a long-term lease. If any of the mayors, the chieftains, the MPs know anything about it, I'd be very happy to do so. My colleagues are now intensively looking for and acting through regional military headquarters to give us some opportunity to do so. In the future, we'd like her to be in every county, but now the easiest one seems to be the camp, and as soon as we can find a chance in the Moravian-Silesian region, we want to be there. We are working on a revision of the system of war veterans care and the creation of missing social programs especially for modern war veterans whose number is increasing. Just today was supposed to be a defense committee where I was supposed to present a new vision of the new war veteran division director, Colonel Speychal. He had prepared a very good presentation, including some time periods when we wanted to do what we wanted to do, and unfortunately, by not acting, the committee could not act because the House is acting, so it has to be postponed. Anyway, you're not gonna miss it. I take it this is a big issue, because it is necessary not only to take care of those second-year veterans who unfortunately leave us practically every week, but also those modern-day war veterans who, on the other hand, are increasing again. At least that's how I see it, even if I sign it. Here too, my idea would be that, for example, people who leave the army get a clear list of what they're entitled to, what they can, what they can ask for. Because unfortunately, I found out that it doesn't work that way, that they actually don't get the information when they're giving them that in quotes, they don't have information about it - you nod, so it's also your experience - that they don't actually get the information that they should ask to have the status of a war veteran, that they might even be part of an active backup and they might not have to repeat some medical tests and other things. These are just all things that we want to do and actually raise people's awareness. We want to do the app, because Ivan Bartoš has now left, but he would like to hear it in digitalization - because even things that are linked to some social phenomena, unfortunately related to the demanding service that soldiers have, such as post-traumatic syndrome, which he takes away from some missions or falling family relationships, so we want to be a service organization for these people to have, where to turn, clear information, and in fact we could give those people back the fact that they actually swore to be for us, for all of us, here, ready to put our own lives in place. And that after the years they served in the army of the Czech Republic, the state would not forget them and not throw them overboard. This is our main target with Colonel Speychal, who we want to implement. We have established - because somebody has to take care of these veterans, and you know that it is quite difficult to get people into social services, to get people into service at all, so that we are trying to motivate our employees in some way in this regard too, that is simply a bare necessity - so we have also set up a new kind of award for those who have long been engaged in the care of war veterans, and surely those people deserve it without fail. Those of you who have not yet had the opportunity to visit the Army Museum in Žižkov, which is under the Military Historical Institute, so please do so, take your families, children, grandchildren there. It's really amazing. The construction won the Construction of the Year in 2022 and the exhibition contains over 7,000 exhibits. He's also interactive. So in addition to the fact that teachers and their students love to go there, they actually find their own history lovers, not just the military ones, because it's really very clear there, and actually there, when you go through that museum, you realize how much we've been through, that really the fact that someone is trying to tell us that we're a small, insignificant country that we didn't have heroes isn't really true. That's where you'll see the heroes. Go take a look at them and bow to them. [[17.50 hours]] All year round, we have consistently cared for the commemoration of the important anniversary of the personalities of our military history, the maintenance of military traditions, symbols. You know, last year we commemorated the 80th anniversary of Operation Anthropoid. In fact, I would also like to thank my colleagues from the Ministry of Culture, because a special year-round project The 80-year assassination on the website of the Military Historical Institute has just been done with Mr. Lukeš and Mr. Minister of Culture Baxa. We've been doing a whole series of events, an exhibition We'll never give up at the National Museum, we've been doing the reconstruction and reopening of the National Monument, which we've been heading to that anniversary, and a whole series of memorial acts. We even had, not in Resslova street, because it wouldn't go very well there, but in nearby Zítkovy sady we also had a symbolic skydiving jump, then of course a memorial service in the church of svatý Cyril a Metoděj in Resslova street. And I think it is also necessary to repeat and remind the young generation of who the men of Operation Anthropoid were. And not only men, because many others helped these men, who, of course, were brave and took it away by losing their lives. They were people, men, women from all over our republic, and there I think we can't forget their legacy either. Not only the names we know now, but I've always tried to search for other personalities from this era, to make memorial records for them and to remember them in some dignified way. On the occasion of the 105th anniversary of the Battle of Zborov - you know where Zborov is. Zborov is in Ukraine and, in fact, the anniversary is at the end of June and my colleagues and I decided that we would go to Zborov in a very narrow group because it was the 105th anniversary and we wanted to express our respect for our legionnaires, the people who fell there and the people in Ukraine who are taking care of our memorial. I firmly believe that even the new director of the War Veterans Department will give even a little new direction to care for those memorial sites, for the graves of war, because we really do have a number of memorial sites and graves in Ukraine, and so we need to take care of them and hope that Putinův's fanatics will not destroy them unless they have destroyed some of them already. So we've been to Zborov, honored the memory of legionnaires, and we want to take more intensive care of graves abroad, which we have and which resemble the legacy of our heroes, soldiers. We expand and deepen the care of war graves, monuments not only in the Czech Republic but also abroad. Finally, after more than ten years, we have managed to negotiate that we have all the necessary stamps, papers for the Sokolov Memorial. Sokolov, I think on March 8th, now in the 23rd year will be celebrating the 80th anniversary, and here it is very good to say that I thank the representatives of the Ukrainian party, the Minister of Culture of Ukraine and the Minister of Defense of Ukraine for the fact that after our visit with the Prime Minister in Kiev, they practically immediately started helping with the handling of all the necessary permits and the memorial will be able to be built. We transported the remains of General František Moravec from the USA back home to his hometown of Čáslav. I'm sure the anniversary of Operation Anthropoid resonated much more, but we all say thank God, so says the family. The American family accompanied us on that last trip of the General of the United States and, of course, colleagues from the Defence Committee were invited to this commemorative act and I think it was very dignified and that even such things, even after so many years, are needed. And they are needed not only for the symbolism, but also so that we can actually say that we are civilized as a country in caring for the legacy of our ancestors and people who fought and died for our country. NATO, the European Union, foreign cooperation. A lot of things from our Presidency have already been said here by the Minister of Foreign Affairs Lipavský. So I'm going to focus marginally on the Alliance, which is another point in my tenure. Here we finalize a bilateral agreement on defence cooperation with the US, the so-called DCA, which will allow more intensive cooperation between the Czech and American armed forces. During our Czech Presidency in the European Union, it was possible to establish and launch a military foreign mission to support Ukraine. At the same time, we actively participated in negotiations to secure funds for military material for Ukraine through the European Peace Facility. By the way, citizens also know little, I will mention that our help to Ukraine is actually coming back to us richly, because through this European peace instrument, we will get back a whole series of funds for the military material that we have provided for Ukraine. What else we have done within the Czech Presidency from that cut in the field of defence. That is where we managed to negotiate a compromise between the Member States on the basis of which a programme of joint purchases will be established in order to compensate for the urgent military needs incurred in helping Ukraine. Again the shortcut - the shortcut is not just loved by our soldiers, but probably by soldiers from all over the world, because the shortcut is Edirpa, the name of the deal. The Czech Republic has moved negotiations in a direction that should also provide room for purchase from third countries under this instrument. So it won't be again that two big countries here are going to deal with their contracts, but that they actually can involve the countries more in this project, which we called for, and it was actually in our presentation. When we were becoming presidents, we actually said at all these meetings that this is the goal we want to achieve. We have also successfully continued the implementation of the so-called European Union Strategy Compass, which was approved in March 2022. After a very demanding - and here I would really like to thank my colleagues from the Ministry of Defence resort, especially Tomáš Kopečný, Radka Konderlová and Aleš Vytečka - after demanding negotiations, the Council of the European Union finally approved us under our Presidency the final form of the so-called European Union Hybrid Toolbox. It is an umbrella instrument designed to help Member States face hostile hybrid activities. These may take the form of disinformation campaigns, cyber attacks, intelligence and influence operations, economic pressure or a combination of them. [[18.00 hours]] We're almost on our way to the finals. I'm actually in a ten-story field of foreign operations right now. I mentioned the Ukrainian one. You know that we actually approved the mandate both within the European Union but that we also approved the training of Ukrainian soldiers in the Czech Republic. The first tour was very successful. These people are really very motivated. Mr. Governor of the Olomouc Region was there to see us, for which I thank him. I think the cooperation between the authorities in this regard has been very helpful, that at the beginning, when there was just a crazy misinformation campaign going on, it all became clear and the situation really calmed down. I thank all the representatives of the municipalities and those Members from the respective regions for this, because there really was nothing going on there but what is happening in the military training area. Ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled an amendment to the Constitution of the Czech Republic, which will allow the government to send troops abroad for the purpose of protecting life and health, or in the event of a threat to property values or security of the Czech Republic, while maintaining Parliament's control role. You know there was a big debate here on Friday. I am really prepared within the committees, in the second reading, here to discuss the proposal in more detail with you, including the reasons which actually led to the submission of the proposal by Minister Stropnický, your minister, and actually other ministers of your government who have always supported this proposal. Now that they've turned their backs on him, I'm more explaining that there's some presidential election coming up here, the second round of the presidential election, and that, unfortunately, there's some things that you need to look back on to get some of the voters from the rival SPD. That's just the way it is. I'm a guy who always says things straight and calls things real names. So I'm just going to hope that after these presidential elections, no matter how they turn out, we're going to go back to discussing the draft of this standard, we're going to give it proper dignity because it's an institution, and we're going to discuss it. Thank you in advance for the relevance of this debate, and I'm ready to host the debate. In an extremely short time, we have also responded to the need to strengthen the eastern border of NATO and create a new international combat group in Slovakia, where we have also taken on the important role of the commanding country. This is what I realized today, by the way, when I gave the press release that we were able to negotiate for General Kolář, that he was actually becoming the head of the MFO, which is the mission to Sinai, where we also have our representatives for many years. So here again is another Čech who is able to assert himself in these foreign operations as a commander, and I consider this a huge success. I also consider it a huge success that, in the very difficult situation that is in the Sahel, we have managed to lead the European Union mission, the EUTM, that we have been able to work there through our special forces as part of the operation Takuba, which ended in June last year. The EUTM mission thus ended at the end of last year with the departure of our soldiers and the transfer of command to the Španěl. I'm just gonna sigh here and hope that the situation in the region will calm down again in some way. Because we are all focusing a lot on the eastern part of our borders now, but unfortunately, the world is not safer anywhere, and especially in the Sahel, we see that individual governments are falling, that the region is actually very unstable. If anyone is profiting from the region's instability, it's China and Russia, either through Wagnerův's group or, of course, because there's some conjecture with the Číňan. As I said, we had to put an end to the troops in that EUTM training mission in Mali, because this mission turned into something other than why we went there. We thought so, and I promised you that, when we approved the mandate here, that if we sent our troops into foreign operations, we would send them where it had an effect. We just didn't see the efficiency here at this point, because the mission under the European Union was a little different in 2022 than it was years ago when my predecessor suggested that we go on this mission. I also thank you for twice approving my mandate here. Once it was the big one, then it was the little one. In this great mandate on the operation of forces and resources of the resort in foreign operations by 2024 we therefore have the means to strengthen the eastern wing of NATO and facilitate the short stay of allied soldiers in the Czech Republic. I would like to stop by here for a moment, because I really had the opportunity to visit our soldiers repeatedly in the Slovak Forest and I am proud of them. I am proud that even in those conditions that were not entirely ideal, we have already negotiated with the Slovak party that there should be dignified unimocelles in order to ensure accommodation so that we really move in some - and now I don't want to say comfort. It's not about comfort, it's about soldiers, but it's about really having the conditions of a dignified twenty-first century. Thank you very much to the Slovak side for giving us priority, and now our soldiers are actually living in our new quarters. Surely this East Wing strengthening mission will also be the subject of negotiations within the North Atlantic Alliance. We actually have a big summit in Vilnius in the North Atlantic Alliance, where we hope that Sweden and Finland will already be part of the North Atlantic Alliance. But we'll see, because there's still a Hungarian and Turkish signature missing. By the way, I had the Turkish Minister of Defence visiting Prague today, he was at the resort. We held bilateral negotiations. Of course, we have also touched on this subject, which is very sensitive to them, because elections await them, both in the House and in Parliament. The so-called small mandate on the operation of forces and means of the Ministry of Defence in foreign operations was approved by the end of 2024 and the residence of members of the Ukrainian armed forces in the Czech Republic for training until the end of 2023. The main purpose of this mandate is therefore to increase the participation of the Czech Republic in the training of Ukrainian soldiers and our involvement in the newly established European Union training mission for Ukraine. Like I said, the first tour left, there were no problems. On the edge, in the small mandate, we also approved the continuation of Czech participation in NATO training mission in Iraq. Also, and this is new, we are strengthening the participation of the military police in the KFOR mission in Kosovo. Which one of you is watching a little bit of this region, I'm sure it's important that we have our representatives here, because, in fact, despite this area, a relatively large flow of migrants is the Balkan route. The aim of this military police mission would also be to monitor those routes, to prevent various smuggling of anything, weapons, drugs, but also, of course, human trafficking. [[18.10 hours]] In record time, we were able to extend the deployment of our fighters sent to defend the airspace of the Baltic States at the moment when they needed it most. Air Policy is always approved for some period, then there are actually those other countries that are in this Air Policy project, here some countries have just gotten into some trouble, that they had more soldiers in other operations, and once again we have shown that we are united as NATO and that we help each other, that we are working together, that we are aware that this situation is not simple in any of our countries and that we will also be able to meet these needs. We also met Slovakia's need for temporary assistance to protect airspace, and from September 2022 until the end of 2023, we are patrolling their airspace together with Poland. I mentioned the members of the active backup, so here I would mention that in addition to the borders of the new members of the active backup, they are becoming more and more involved in operational deployment abroad. Here I would mention Lithuania and I would mention Slovakia. Ladies and gentlemen, that was my ten. In fact, in that publication that you had the opportunity to read, and maybe if you read it, you wouldn't criticize our government, because I didn't actually file your accounts from the programming statement, because I actually wrote those accounts publicly, and I wanted to put them together publicly on the committee today, so you made it impossible for me to call this meeting, so at least I'm putting those accounts here, and I don't mind, so actually the eleventh point of my tenure is helping Ukraine, because when we put together the programming statement, we obviously didn't know what would happen from February 24th to 25th, and we're trying and we're trying to make some other things that we're doing at the resort. So we managed to help Ukraine not only materially, by supplying ammunition and weapons systems for more than 4.5 billion. And here I will mention again, and I ask that it be really heard by you that we will get a large part of this amount back as compensation from NATO and European Union funds within the so-called European Peace Facility. Of course, we have given shelter to hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian refugees, especially women, children, we have given additional humanitarian aid, which is what my predecessors have been talking about, and I do not want to burden you with this and repeat myself. Anyway, we are among the leading providers of military assistance to Ukraine. Our supplies of weapons and military equipment have a big part in the Russian army being forced to retreat in a number of places, thank God. In addition to helping the state - and now I return to the topic from the tenor, support of the Czech defence industry - they send weapons to Ukraine as well as Czech armory and citizens. By the way, this really is a curiosity that civil society is involved in a collection of hundreds of crowns, thousands of crowns, actually, in the purchase of weapons for Ukraine. I would like to thank and appreciate the representatives of the organizations that do this, and I appreciated them with the commendation that they actually came up with this idea and managed to tear down millions of people to send contributions there. And they're sending them on. By the way, there will now be an auction of some things and the proceeds from this auction will again go to military material in Ukraine. Our resort is involved in this so that it actually grants licenses and coordinates these things, because of course it is necessary for everything to be done legally, so that everything has appropriate licenses, after all, military material, cannot be dealt with in any way irresponsiblely. So here, just to keep track, for example, the Ukrainian embassy in Prague has already sent donors about CZK 2 billion. The Czech Republic is probably the first country in the world where citizens of the Czech Republic put themselves on a tank to send it against Putin. The tank's name is Tomáš, and it still runs in Ukraine, and I firmly believe that it will ride for a long time, because I also contributed to it. Export of Czech military material to Ukraine, this may be of interest to economists, former Minister of Finance, reaches over 47 billion crowns, which is, just for comparison, 14 billion crowns in 2021. Of course, we are trying to be quick and helpful in this regard, as a resort, in that licenses do not last for a quarter of a year, but insist in the order of weeks, which I think is also important for it to work quickly, and, of course, it will come back to us on taxes, on employed people, on the money that will be in the regions where the firms have their businesses, the factories. In our resort we provided accommodation for hundreds of refugees. I've been doing statistics for myself. At the beginning, it was some, I think, 1,000 places that we put into the system that was under the Ministry of the Interior. On average, we accommodated some 600, 700 when it was actually the worst time of the war, and now it's some stable 350, 400 people. They are especially mothers with children or old men. Here I think that we have also tried to employ these people within our department, so maybe many of these moms are already employed somewhere today, helping out in some cafeteria or simply doing things that they can do here in the Czech Republic for short-term asylum. Our assistance to Ukraine has significantly strengthened the reputation of the Czech Republic with partners in NATO and the European Union, and Ukraine is also very positive about it, which opens the way for us to involve our businesses in postwar reconstruction. This is what Prime Minister Fiala has been talking about, and certainly the Minister of Industry and Trade, Síkela, and possibly other colleagues, will be talking about it. Ladies and gentlemen, before I actually end up here with my balance sheet speech, which I originally prepared for today's defence committee, let me take the opportunity to be here today with you in this way and thus enjoy the celebration of democracy, which is undoubtedly a vote on distrust or even on the trust of the government. I'm just excited, I've been having a good time in the 12 years I've been in the Chamber of Deputies, the 10th, the eleventh. I'm always so excited about the moment when individual colleagues get up here and say, "for the proposal," "against the proposal." I also like the fact that we will actually get to know each other again, because a number of colleagues that I then meet in those corridors, and we've been here for a year, so we really don't all know each other personally, so I'm actually pleasantly surprised that this is my colleague or colleague from the Chamber of Deputies. So I'm enjoying it, I'm happy to be here with you, [[18.20 hours]] But let me take this opportunity to say one more thing here, and I don't want to make any comments about any presidential election at all right now. No. I just want to, and I think it's important that it should be said here, that the opinion of a very reputable constitutional lawyer should be heard here about the various speculations of who mobilizes, calls, calls, declares wars. What actually lives in public space and what really borders, or is beyond disinformation. So let me read here in front of all of you the opinion of the constitutional lawyer Kysela, who has made this quite clear, so that once it has been said here, and everyone knows how it is that no one should be skulking about it, no one here has frightened the citizens of the Czech Republic that someone here will simply mobilize someone after the election. It's nonsense. Why do people get scared? Let's not do this, please. Let's do this political fight right. We can argue about some things like 2% of GDP here, if in 2024, 2025, 2026, but please don't scare the citizens of the Czech Republic into some kind of war. Let's not scare them by mobilizing. Let's not scare them with things that can't happen, because even if we ever feel that the constitution could be more precise, that some things should be more explicitly written in it, so she's good, she really contains the things quite clearly. So let me read Mr. Kysela's statement. On the brink of the current debate about the president of peace and war coveted - it has it in quotes - first: The Czech Constitutional Order does not contain the institute of declaration of war at all, so the President of the Republic cannot drag us into it. None. Second: The Czech Constitution anchors the state of war in the event of our attack or the fulfilment of allied obligations. However, the war situation is decided by the two chambers of Parliament by an absolute majority of votes. It is therefore the absolute majority of 101 Members and 41 Senators. The President of the Republic has no role in this decision-making. No president. Third: The Czech Constitution also regulates the possibility of sending our armed forces abroad, or receiving foreign armed forces on our territory. However, the decision-making again falls to the two chambers of Parliament and, where appropriate, to the government in the situations listed. The President of the Republic has no part in this decision either. No president, no current, no future. Fourthly, while the President of the Republic decides on mobilisation, on the one hand, on the other hand, on a proposal and with the approval of the Government, on the one hand, on the one hand, on the other, on the other, in a state of war, Parliament has decided on it. Once again, the President has no authority, neither present nor future. So don't scare people. Fifth: Head of the Army of the Czech Republic is the Chief of General Staff, whom the President of the Republic appoints and refers to a proposal from the Government. The President of the Republic doesn't run an army, even if he's the commander-in-chief of the armed forces. Only the President of the Republic has greater influence, only the Castle Guard, but the Castle Guard is also run by the Chief of the Military Office of the President of the Republic. So once again, the power is clearly given. Sixth: The volume of funds for the operation and arming of the armed forces is determined by the State Budget Act, which is prepared by the Government and approved by the Chamber of Deputies. This is where we know he doesn't go to the Senate. The President of the Republic can veto it at most, and even this is quite unusual given the significant effects on government and state activities at all, but this can happen. But that's a standard veto that can outvote. Seven: The President of the Republic shall appoint and promote generals. It approves the basic military orders or lends battalions to military units. But this has no effect on whether the president is an existing or future peacemaker or a warrior. Summary, ladies and gentlemen, and please give me one more minute of attention. Our constitutional order and the rule of law as such do not confer any competence on the President of the Republic by which he could bring the Czech Republic to war, even if he wished it beautifully. I wish you a nice evening tonight.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u30	Thank you very much. [[Let's continue our applause.]] Thank you. I'll reload my apologies. Well, hello. I'll read your apologies. Jan Berki apologizes from 18:30 to 9:00 for work reasons, Aleš Dufek from 19:00 without giving reason, Pavel Kašník from 18:00 to 9:00 for health reasons and from Ministers Jan Lipavský from 17:30 for work reasons and Vlastimil Válek from 16:00 to 18:00 for work reasons. That would settle the apology. Another registered with priority rights is Minister Martin Kupka. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u31	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that, like other government colleagues, I, of course, also fully respect the right of the opposition to call for a vote on distrust of the government. At the same time, I'd like to say that this is obviously about something else, and you're not going to explain to anyone that it's different. This is just about supporting your boss' campaign. So be it, we will, of course, fight here to make sure that we make the most of our annual work. Of course we will, but the fact that in support of your boss here, you call a meeting to express your distrust to the government, and then he doesn't even come to work, so I would say with Major Terazky, it's more than absurd. That's sad. But let's go to the Department of Transportation. I'm wondering if I'm going to spend every mile of road, railroad and highway in that detail, or limit myself to stretches. However, I consider it important to start with something that President Schillerová called one of the government's failures in her thirteenth time - that we did not use the Czech Presidency. The opposite is true. And you know that, and that's why all you're trying to do is point to your weakness with this performance. The Czech Presidency in the field of transport brought not only the Czech Republic but also Europe an agreement on the TEN-T network. What does the TEN-T network mean? A clear definition of what funding will be going into throughout Europe in the coming years, in the construction of what infrastructure projects Europe will invest. And here not only the key road transport structures are being dealt with, but also the rail, where Europe is trying to repay debt, especially in border sections, on the territory of the whole European Union. But this is an essential opportunity for the Czech Republic. Thanks to the Czech Presidency, we have a chance, a clear promise to provide funding for the key construction of high-speed lines across the Czech Republic for the connection of Berlin, Prague, Brno and Vienna, but also for the construction of other important sections of high-speed lines connecting other Czech cities, as well as for the best possible involvement of the entire network of high-speed connections in the rest, as well as regional rail links. That's an important step. And we have contributed to the fact that, within Europe, we have also managed to agree to continue the development of the network towards Ukraine and Moldova as not only an expression of support and solidarity with the country that is plagued by Russia's aggression at the moment, but also to create conditions for the reconstruction of the country and, of course, the involvement of Czech and general European companies. [[18.30 hours]] But I will mention that the transport theme is not just road, rail transport, but it is also a space program. The Czech Presidency managed to bring an agreement on the megaconstellation of IRIS2 communication satellites to the finals at the end of the trialogue. What does that mean? It means quite a lot. This means a breakthrough in how Europe will be able to use satellite data links in the future. The key thing is that it can secure a secure connection, it can provide strategic information, as it is currently provided by US systems in places of war. This will, of course, also enable better data connections to places where optical fibers may not lead at the moment. It will mean a significant development of the Internet of things. This will mean a further shift in how Europe can develop its information systems and communicate across governments, across states and provide data links to people in various places of Europe and the European Union. That's a pretty big step. At the same time, when we talk about the space program, we have taken all the necessary steps to ensure that the EUSPA representation, the European Space Programme Agency, which is based in Prague, can develop its activities here, which brings not only important contacts to the Czech Republic, but, of course, it means further strengthening the prestige of Czech companies participating in the space programme, although not so much talk about it, but it is equally very important. Back to the subject of ordinary traffic, so we can return from space. I would also like to mention what everything has been done in the field of transport to help carriers, to help companies when it was said that the government is not helping people. So I will mention a few very concrete steps of important help. The most important thing - it was able to prevent Czech pumps from performing dramas similar to Hungary, to run out of oil, to run out of petrol and people who need to get out of the place And to place B, to fear if they succeed or fail. Today we can follow the trend in prices on pumps favorably and get close to the values that were at petrol stations a year ago, without dramatic shocks, which would, of course, damage the entire market. But I will mention another key aid, such as the abolition of road taxes for vehicles up to 12 tons. I will also mention the excise tax discount, which has been valid for three months for petrol and diesel and is currently valid for diesel and will be valid until the end of this year. Important assistance to all carriers facing competition from neighbouring countries. Significant aid for the economy, too, because of course it meant keeping this important sector really above water. What I also want to mention is that I should not just stay with road transport, so it is, of course, aid to all railway carriers, in the forgiveness of POZE for the whole year. We managed to make it to the finals, in a short time the funds will be paid, i.e. the return of all the payments paid for the POZE. Even managed to secure funds for the payment of POZE, i.e. renewable energy charges, for 2021. Although the previous government promised the carriers that they would think about it, it did not prepare any such money in its budget. So it was another important aid in that year, which was really very difficult for everyone. I come to other important points concerning those changes that have succeeded in promoting for the benefit of people within the European Presidency, and this is a relatively often mentioned ban on the sale of vehicles with internal combustion engines after 2035. It is an important result of the Czech Presidency that two important measures have been implemented there, two substantial exceptions. On the one hand, the ban will not apply to combustion engines burning new synthetic fuels without negative environmental effects. That's not gonna work for them. At the same time, I note that there is currently a very intensive development of synthetic fuels, not only for the aviation industry, but also, of course, synthetic diesel and synthetic gasoline. At the same time, there is a second important measure that the Commission will have to evaluate in 2026 whether it is the automotive industry, but also, of course, companies in different European countries, whether they are ready for the change that should take place after 2035. This is another important change that has been achieved within the Czech Presidency. Finally, Euro 7. The dreaded standard we were up against because we still think it's thoughtless, unhappy. The Czech Presidency has succeeded in promoting the postponement of efficiency for trucks and we will now develop other activities in order to significantly transform the shape of Euro 7. I will mention that the government has also adopted a clear resolution in this regard, rejecting the current form of Euro 7, because the current form could seriously endanger the automotive industry not only in the Czech Republic but also in other countries of the European Union. And it will be one of the important agendas for the coming months. Important thing - investment in transport infrastructure. We started with the budget of CZK 127 billion of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure and managed to reach 130 billion of CZK in the result. Thus, it was possible to increase by 4 billion the funds that are heading into transport infrastructure. The thing the Czech Republic urgently needs in order to strengthen the economy, it also needs it in order to pay off historical debt in insufficient, unfinished motorway and railway infrastructure. These are specific figures that, even at that difficult time, contributed to the economy's breathing. And not only did we invest more last year, but we also managed to prepare the budget of the State Fund for transport infrastructure of CZK 150 billion, i.e. another CZK 20 billion, for this year, with the extension of other investment activities of both the Railway Administration and the Directorate of Roads and Motorways, as well as the Directorate of Waterways. We are going to continue to develop investment activities in the most difficult time, to open other opportunities thanks to easier transport in the Czech Republic, but also, of course, through contracts that can be done both on road and rail infrastructure. Those are key messages. And let's also look at it with passenger optics, driver optics. What did that mean last year from those key projects? And I do not pretend that all these projects were being prepared in previous periods, that my predecessors were working on them and that my predecessors were working on them in many cases. And now, of course, in this current period, we are working to ensure that future generations of transport ministers also have the opportunity to develop road rail infrastructure. I'm not covering that up. However, I would like to stress that because the funds were secured, this meant, among other things, the completion of the modernisation of the key section on the fourth railway corridor. The result is that today people from Prague will reach Tabor in less than an hour. And already the timetable indicator for the first month of December 10 shows that in most cases it is true that you will ride from Prague to Tábor under one hour. The result? The result is important because it means a significant simplification of travel. But it turns out that it opens up exactly what we are talking about, what we're talking about in the case of high-speed lines, that is, shortening the commute time opens up new opportunities for people, new opportunities for their jobs, for their studies, for their various activities, but also for them to be able to search for an apartment that is more easily accessible to them. Many people in the context of the change of transport can then look for a way to get an apartment, for example due to the shortening of the driving time and further away from Prague. This is also one of the important messages in terms of modernising the railway network. But it wasn't just that. At the same time, an important section of the modernisation of the railway line between Poříčany and Velimí was completed on the key railway connection between Prague, Pardubice, Česká Třebová and Olomouc. It's also one of the most busy knots we've ever worked on, and it's still going to work. This year we will be able to complete another important section between Ústí nad Orlicí and Brandýs nad Orlicí. This should significantly ease the worries of the Czech railway. [[18.40 hours]] We experienced extraordinary delays on the entire railway network last year. What other solution was possible at that time? Stop construction and run traffic on those lockouts? Well, that would certainly mean much more serious problems. It was clear that we had to complete all these constructions and that we simply had to bear even greater network reliability in this regard. And we also apologized to the passengers for that, and at the same time promised that this year we would focus much more on the railway reliability. And it happened in the form of a modification of evaluation criteria for the functioning of the Railway Administration and for the functioning of the Czech Railways. The management of both companies will know directly on their payouts whether they are able to ensure greater reliability of the network, whether they better coordinate the lockout activity, whether they are able to monitor the reliability of the individual components of the entire transport infrastructure so that, in the end, we can travel on the Czech railway at the right time without unnecessary delays and more reliable. This will undoubtedly be the test of this year. But the key systemic steps were made last year. Speaking of the main corridor, I will also draw attention to the completion of the key modernization between Brno and Blansko, where trains have been running since December last year and where the so-called uncooled or non-cooled traffic is no longer available at the moment, but people can use trains there again. We also work on other sections to modernise the network. Also this year, key transport constructions, such as between Karlštejn and Beroun, will be launched, we will continue to rebuild individual railway stations. Another important report is that last year 233 railway crossings have been adapted, which are now safer and which should also prevent unnecessary road and rail collision accidents. If we move from the railway to the transport infrastructure - the most important report of the previous year in addition to the completion of another key section of D35 between Time and Ostrov, we have managed to start long postponed construction of the key section D1, the last section at Přerov, and from that point on we are able to prepare the construction so that after winter it can start really on full turn. But I will mention other key structures that we have moved on to again. We should start construction of border section D11 this year. A key structure that connects the Czech and Polish motorway system. The Polák will reach the border two years earlier, we cannot shorten it at best, but in that last year we managed to take steps to really get the construction started this year. Similarly, the construction of the next section D6 was started this year, in the short time in the following months we will start with the construction of two further sections on D6. Last year the construction continued very quickly on D4 and continued, although it was much more complicated there, construction of D3 in the southern part of České Budějovice and this year we should continue to prepare other sections so that we can ideally reach the motorway in 2025 to the Czech-Austrian border. This would be another important report for the simplification of transport. But it doesn't just stop on the highways, and I only mentioned a few sections at random, I could mention other sections D55, D49. I should mention the opening of the Frýdek-Místek bypass, which has been waiting for a long time and which now serves people at least half the profile and from the middle of next year, full operation in all four lanes should be working in this section. At the same time, however, we managed to start with the construction of key city bypasses, such as Jaroměř, and several bypasses were completed - Olbramovice, also a delay, bypassing Mělník or Církvice. These were all key structures. What awaits us this year is not only the preparation of the projects underway. We should also come this year to discuss the missing parts of the Prague Circuit and prepare for the continuation of the Central Bohemian part of the D3 motorway. These are all key challenges. The necessary condition for this is to ensure funding. I already mentioned it - the record budget of the SFDI. But I'm going to underline the important thing. At the same time, we have opened up the possibility of using other funds and other financial instruments. For the period that awaits us, a matter absolutely necessary. We're talking about we should start building high-speed lines. Without preparing at the same time the possibilities for financing this, we will not move further. We have launched negotiations with the European Investment Bank. But in addition to discussing this particular European money, we want to open ourselves up to other possibilities of issuing bonds, whether from the Ministry of Finance's position in favour of transport infrastructure, as well as at the level of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. And we are discussing other options, we are preparing other PPP projects, for example for important parts of the D35 motorway, but also on the railway for the Nemanice-Ševětín section or for parts of the new railway connection between the centre of Prague, Václav Havel Airport and Kladno. When I mentioned it, good news - a few days ago we started building another key part of the new railway connection to the airport, between the Prague Drums and the Exhibition Centre. At the same time, the construction of the section between Kladno and Kladno-Ostrovec will start at full speed in the spring of this year. I mentioned the road, the railroad, of course it is time to mention the water transport as well. We are looking at the opening of 12 marinas that can be used by people who will go to the Czech navigable rivers. And, of course, since last year we have been speeding up the preparation of the water stage Děčín, when it turns out that it is possible to compensate the very muddy floods and vegetation that grow on them. I will also mention air transport, which has also played an important role in the very beginning of the conflict in Ukraine, when it was the Czech Republic, which, together with Poland, initiated the closure of airspace over the European Union for Russian airline aircraft as a clear signal that we do not agree with Russia's aggression in Ukraine and that we do not intend to tolerate it in any way. In this respect, the Czech Republic was one of the first to come forward with the proposal. At the same time, I would like to mention that Air Traffic Control, together with managing air traffic towards Ukraine in connection with the assistance of the military, has also been able to ensure the restoration of flight routes after the cod crisis. And thanks to charter flights, air transport over the Czech Republic was significantly revived during this summer, which is, of course, one of the key positive reports. Of course, both railway and road infrastructure will play a key role in preparing the construction of gigafactory in Linz, without which the factory cannot be created. I will not mention here how important it is for transport, how important it is for the automotive industry, so that we can maintain the production of cars in the Czech Republic. However, I will mention that from the point of view of transport infrastructure it would necessarily mean speeding up the modernisation of the railway connection between Plzeň and the Czech-Bavor border, it would undoubtedly also mean speeding up projects between Pilsen and Prague. I am thinking, in particular, of the tachlovic tunnel, because there will be a need to provide a higher capacity for rail transport to move the cargo from the possible gigafactory. At the same time, it will mean building the necessary infrastructure in the territory itself. And here I also want to thank everyone who was involved in preparing those important assumptions to ensure the necessary infrastructure. [[18.50 hours]] Another important point in transport is digitization. The Transport Portal has been working since last year, which allows a number of other agendas to be purchased from the peace of home. In this respect, the Department of Transport is one of those leading digitization in the Czech Republic and the Czech Public Administration. If you look at the transport portal - and today you can use the data box access, the electronic ID card, or the ID bank, which already has more than 5 million people in the Czech Republic, and this also allows for example easier provision of a driving licence, which expires, or when you lose it or need to get it quickly. We're going to have some more key news for the next year. And when we talk about relief from unnecessary administration and bureaucracy, we have managed to enforce a law that simply means cutting a large technical pass as an extra waste paper, counting on further digitization and registration of vehicles themselves, so that in the future it is not necessary to weigh the way to the office itself. And the simplification takes place today, or it will take place after the first March, when if you have paid the lease contract, you will not have to take registration checks and go to the STK for nothing. And so did we extend the registration check to one year compared to the current month. These are all key signals that fulfill the government's promise to remove unnecessary paperwork, remove unnecessary stamps, and try to prepare people better conditions to manage their administrative duties with as little cost as possible, both in time and in financial terms. And I'm going to mention the last key chapter, and that's road safety. I certainly don't want it to be a Cinderella. You know that at the beginning of this year, the government approved the Road Traffic Act, which we will be able to discuss shortly, but it was preceded by a very difficult debate last year, when together with experts, together with driving schools, together with the Police of the Czech Republic, managed to prepare legislation that would significantly simplify the point system, which would make the whole way of road rules clearer and more understandable and at the same time bring crucial conditions for further development of greater road safety, which is the L17 measure, i.e. the possibility of driving vehicles from 17 years under the supervision of the Mentor, or also the driver's license for the test. And important statistics. Last year, thanks to a number of BESIP activities, the Ministry of Transport managed to reduce the number of accidents on Czech roads and the number of human victims. If we want to continue to follow this trend, this also means strengthening the concrete steps this year and, of course, with the proposed amendment to the Road Traffic Act, taking further steps forward here in the Chamber of Deputies. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] I promised that the performance of one year and one month in Czech transport would be as valid as possible, it would be a clear composition of the accounts. I believe he managed to make it in that half-hour. Yes, it was a relatively economical time, but that's the way it should be in transport, we're trying to shorten times, so I believe that 30 minutes was enough to introduce you to the most important changes. I believe that after all these steps, after all the system changes in the transport department, it will be possible to continue intensively developing transport infrastructure, that it will be possible to ensure transport safer, that it will be possible to continue digitizing the agenda. And I also consider it crucial that we can really make all these steps more understandable and friendly for the Czech public in transport throughout the resort. These changes are already visible and will become even more visible in the future. I would like to mention one important thing that will accompany transport in the coming year. I mentioned the preparation of several key transport structures. I mentioned the Prague Circuit, I also mentioned the continuation of the preparation of the Central Bohemian part of the D3 motorway, I mentioned the continuation of the D11 that we will start with the construction of D6. This is only possible because of the really intense work of investor organisations in the field of transport. This is possible thanks to legislation that wishes for much more development of transport infrastructure. But one thing is absolutely essential - and here I want to be clear about the criticism of the opposition. This government is prepared with the courage to enter those key projects and invest funds in them and to seek good solutions against the resistance of those who will be led by road construction or railroads behind the hummus. It turns out that without this courage, but at the same time the willingness to find the right solutions, we don't have a chance to move on. And the key news is that all these projects are going to continue, and we are going to continue them faster, that the development is also known in the regions, and that the Czech public's response to the government's efforts to invest and offer one of the recipes for resolving the crisis in this way means really investing honestly in the things that the Czech Republic needs and which will mean further key support for the Czech economy, so that it can be reflected and continued to grow. I mentioned safety in road transport as a key condition, on rail, which means significant investments in ETCS, in the European safety guard. So much very brief insight into what brought everything to the transport department for the Czech public. It is quite clear that the Czech Government is helping people in the Czech Republic, that the Czech Government is thinking about them and that it is able to implement key projects that will help the Czech economy as well, that we are not taking hasty steps, but that we are going to develop the resort in a very reasonable way. And at the end of my brief speech, I would like to present a procedural proposal based on the proposal of all five coalition clubs, to act after 21st hour, up to 24 hours today. Thank you for your attention and for supporting all reasonable activities in the Department of Transport.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u32	Thank you. Thank you for the speech and for the procedural proposal. I have already engaged and called in colleagues from the lobby to deal with this proposal made on behalf of five coalition clubs. And the numbers are coming down, so... [[Knock on the desk with a card.]] Checkout, yes, I do. I'm checking everyone out. Please log in with your I.D. cards. And now I am opening the vote on the procedural motion for a meeting after 19 21 to 24 hours. Who's in? Who's against it? In voting number 3, 139 Members voted for 136, against zero, which means that this has been accepted and we will vote until today... we will act, sorry, until midnight tonight under this vote. And now, on the basis of the agreement of the Presidents of all the Members' Clubs, as I have been told, it is agreed that a debate will be opened, where I just have to stress that I have to ask whether there is an objection from someone who has been entered with priority rights before the debate is opened. Given the deal, I don't expect it, but for sure. This is not the case, so this debate is open. Another enrollment is Minister Bek, who apologizes. And then I'll use this to read the apologies I've received. Mr Ivo Vondrák apologizes from 19 to 9 o'clock for personal reasons and from 19 o'clock Minister Mikuláš Bek for work reasons. That is now settled. Minister Pavel Blažek was also signed in, and I do not see him present in the hall. Yes, I see excuses for other ministers, so they're downloading. I ask Minister Nekula, bax - stahovat, Minister Balaš also, Minister Langšádlová. And Minister Šalomoun. And he's downloading, too, I suppose, Minister Stanjura. [[Voice off the microphone.]] Now President Okamura has also withdrawn his application, as has just been said. [[19.00 hours]] This also brings us to the Vice-Presidents. And now it is up to President Havlíček, Vice-President Havlíček, who is now... the application has been applied. I'm handing over the meeting's management, and I wish you a peaceful evening. Please, I give the Vice-President the floor. They may actually be up to the wording of what has been said in the framework of an open debate. Please. You can take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u33	Madam Vice-President, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, allow me, too, to speak in this House meeting and explain the reasons why I believe that this incompetent government should end and, if it does not end, that is, if there is a revote, that the members of the Government should at least respond, justify and present further steps. This has not been possible so far, and I am glad that the debate has actually started, and I look forward to the debate. Alternatively, I would like to vote that the members of the government coalition, that is to say 108 Members, if they are all here, to tell their voters quite clearly, by supporting this government, by agreeing with the way this government is doing and that this government is doing what it is doing, well. Because I don't think so, and I'm going to try to explain why I'm not that opinion. Firstly, because the Czech Republic is becoming one of the most expensive countries in the European Union in terms of purchasing power. It should be recalled that the highest price of electricity and gas in the European Union, through purchasing power, is the highest price in the Czech Republic. I speak in December 2022 for both commodities. We have the highest increase in the price of electricity throughout the European Union and it is 62 percent, and I note that other countries are growing by approximately 2 to 8 percent, I mean other countries around the Czech Republic, all our neighbours. This is according to Eurostat. [[The noise in the room doesn't stop.]] We have the highest decline in real wages in all OECD countries, and we have the fourth highest energy cost for total household costs for the whole year 2022. That's why...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u34	Vice-President, I'm so sorry to interrupt, but I'm asking for some peace of mind in the room. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u35	Thank you. This too is why such a number of households are getting into poverty in the Czech Republic. To be exact, I like the numbers, until a year and a half ago it was 10 percent, now it's over 20 percent, and it's expected to be at the end of this year up to 30 percent. Logically, everything is linked to unprecedented energy growth. Yes, they are growing in other countries of the European Union, but, as I have already pointed out here, in the Czech Republic only in the field of electricity it is several times more than in other countries, despite the fact that we produce electricity, that we produce it cheaply and that we have a surplus. Let me also at this point refute a number of false or incorrect data used here in my speech by Prime Minister Fiala. One. It was said here that we have full magazines, and it was suggested that this was not the case in the past. Exact numbers. Yes, I agree with you, Prime Minister, in 2022, in order to be fair, I say, at the beginning of the heating season, because that is only the relevant figure, then, of course, they empty according to the weather, was 95 percent of the gas in RWE containers, I take the most important storage tanks that are. Yes, 95 percent. In 2021 it was 85 per cent, or 10 per cent less, before the war and in 2020 it was 99 per cent. Thus, it is evident that the magazines, which, among other things, do not comply with the government at all, but are filled by individual traders, were between 85 and 99 percent in those years past. You have also said, Prime Minister - we have ensured the diversification of resources within the nuclear fuel. Yes, you're right. Last year, the nuclear fuel supplied from Russia, we are talking about Temelín, has finally been able to supply other fuels. However, it was a three-year process that we started, precisely because of energy safety, when three years tested whether another type of fuel could be supplied. Finally, after three years of testing, it was concluded that next to Russian fuel, fuel from the United States Westinghouse and Framatome from France would be delivered to Temelín. I'm just saying that this Framatome is de facto the Russian one, but that's not important, the point is that we started this process, you just dragged it out, which is a good thing, and we have to thank you for that. Come in. We've secured independence from Russian gas. So here's just one thing I'd like to add. You didn't get it, Prime Minister. The independence of Russian gas was ensured in particular by the countries of the European Union, which are by the sea and which began to build terminals that began to build LNG infrastructure. Why didn't they build it before 2021? We can argue about that a long time, discuss it, in any case one of the reasons was that it didn't work economically because LNG gas was very expensive. That is why this has not been built here, and that is why Germany has created a dependence on Russian gas. If I were absolutely accurate, our customers did not buy gas from Russia, they bought gas from Germany, but let us be objective, yes, in Germany it was mixed so that there was mostly Russian gas, because logically the pipes from Nord Stream 1 or Jamal were used in German pipes. So the creation of European independence on Russian gas means that we too will be more independent on Russian gas. I would also disprove the so-called Norwegian gas, which basically never flowed to us, because it was in those German pipes that it mixed with Russian gas. And I would point out one more thing: Unfortunately, since 2002, the state has not decided on where we are going to take gas, but thanks to the opposition agreement, commercial entities have decided on this because in 2002 everything about gas, from transport to distribution, gas trade and so on has been privatised here. Furthermore, Prime Minister, you have stated - we have ensured independence from Russian oil by increasing the capacity of the TAL. Yes, you're right, that started in 2014. And in the end, you said you'd secured the core construction. You have done one thing, and that is that the tender, which we have completely prepared in all directions, investment model, financial model, law and so on, two years worked on it, so you have sent - or CEZ - all documents for individual potential suppliers who naturally responded to it, and it is good that we already have the offers correctly. So I'm just showing you the half-truths that show how the energy got turned around. Basically, everything you said started with us, but I'm not saying that you finished some things wrong, wrong, we can talk about something being late. But I would like it to be more accurate next time, and perhaps the Minister of Industry will give you data that is relevant. So that's the price. Unfortunately, the situation with regard to energy prices and not only energy, and, of course, the resulting inflation is largely due to the fact that the deštník is not working against expensive. Excuse me, Prime Minister, but what you mentioned here is a phrase. We generally argue and argue - we don't let anyone fall. That sounds nice, but you know very well that it's unrealistic. Come in. Once again, a number of half-truths, when the deštník Against the Delicate, prepared by your government, which we do not take from you, include the valorisation of wages. Payroll valorization is automatic, and if it wasn't for our government, which ensured valorization at the level they are, it wouldn't be as much as it is. But that's, let's admit, half-truth. [[19.10 hours]] Unfortunately, in the spring, when you introduced the Umbrella versus the Delicate, when you showed the 100 billion, you kind of forgot to say that it wasn't what it was worth, but how much it might be worth, including 2023. That is why we have always been in the worst places in terms of support from all the countries of the European Union. So if we look at the facts and we don't look at the marketing umbrella, what do we see? Households with regard to aid could, in particular, benefit from housing, or social aid. I'm passing the 13 14 documents we warned about. But more importantly, do you know how many people have achieved this? 4 per cent of households. 4 %. I was saying here on purpose that 20 percent of households are on the poverty line, and it's coming up to 30 percent this year, so here I think the result is obvious. Energy-saving tariff, do we remember how it was being prepared here as a flagship of government support? What happened, we know. As soon as it was launched, it was terminated three months later. Good riddance that, among other things, because of the fact that it went to the ceiling, which we praise, because it was also after the great pressure of the opposition, and not only the opposition, but also the professional unions and so on, I mean businessmen. Unfortunately, the height of the ceiling was and is high. We drew attention to this, and now I think that this is starting to be confirmed with regard to what current prices are. What's worse, since I've already mentioned the companies here, virtually no support has been prepared for the companies at all. I don't understand, Prime Minister, what you're saying here, how you support companies and entrepreneurs, how you supported them in the so-called post-commodity era. You can't be serious? We redistributed CZK 370 billion of direct and indirect support to companies in two years. You didn't do anything in the first six months as part of post-covide support, although programs were still published, they changed several times, eventually something started with a six-year delay, but so be it and thank God for the fact that at least something was done in it. But you didn't do anything in the field of energy. To be precise, you came up with a schematic of guarantees that were expressed by the company unit's interest - logically, because at 7 percent no one will borrow on energy. Then you came up with the forgiveness of payments for renewable resources, which is a good step that we have proposed, among other things, since the beginning of this year, however, arrived late, and that is since October, and unfortunately already in the amount that is almost below the distinctiveness for companies, somewhere around 3% of their energy spending will do so. And it's only by putting it on the spot that you've finally unplugged the problem. And, yes, from 1. 1. 2023 it is possible that companies can also use the ceiling on the level that was set from our point of view very high. But that's another thing. But what I'm saying is that in 2022, because the ceiling has been since 2023, you've done nothing for companies in the energy crisis. Nothing at all. So if we look at it, what's the result? Growth in inflation, because inflation is also due, among other things, to cost factors for companies. That's the so-called cost inflation. And, of course, the great uncompetitiveness of domestic entities, which is starting to manifest itself by leaving the market. Not because, Prime Minister and absent Minister of Industry, companies were incompetent, not because they were doing something wrong, but because they received support in the surrounding countries. Well, that's our major complaint. The third reason why we believe that this government should end, and why we will not trust it, is that within my Presidency, and now I deliberately say in the field of energy-climate, I do not claim that in those other areas it was a complete failure, in something better, in something worse, I want to be objective, but in the climate, this government acted entirely against the interests of the Czech Republic, and worse, against the quotes of the political mandate that this government received from citizens. I have already read here at the last speech in the words and in the letter you have in the programme statement, what you promised at the time of the election, what you promised at the time before the Presidency of the Czech Republic took place within the countries of the European Union with regard to climate objectives and impacts on the economy. Absolutely against what you said, you raised your hand to end the combustion engines in 2035, which will mean that car prices will rise de facto from now on, logically, because something has to be paid for. In contrast to what you have said in the context of access to emission allowances, you have been at the head of the peloton to ensure that emission allowances are extended to households as well. Translated into Czech that households will pay higher emissions fees, those heating fossil fuels, and those using cars for internal combustion engines. In other words, 3 to 6 extra crowns per liter of gasoline. And let's see how much gas it's going to be, but for an average household of CZK 5,000 so far, preliminary calculations. At the same time, you have reduced the amount of emission allowances on the market, which will mean that their price will rise, which is the knife in the back of all businesses that, of course, work with emission allowances in some way. In fact, it means that these businesses will make their products more expensive. Logically, this will restore the pressure to increase energy prices. And once again, it's going to be an upside-down character. Not to mention that you have agreed to unemission buildings since 2027 and 2030 respectively, depending on whether they are public or residential, which will put pressure on the construction price, at around 10 per cent current prices. So again, what's the result? Pro-inflationary, expensive, threatening industry, but especially, and I am most sorry, you have not taken the chance to dampen some unrealistic green plans in Europe. I admit it's not easy. And I also admit that you were under a lot of pressure there. After all, Frans Timmermans, the main promoter of green ideology throughout Europe, Commissioner Frans Timmermans, commended you very much. I think this is a clear result of your work within the European Union. You did the opposite of what you should have done. Instead of slowing down the expansion to the green targets, you're speeding it up. Yes, you've accelerated decarbonisation. And I'm saying that it was in spite of that, or that it was against the mandate that you received from our citizens. The fourth reason that doesn't bother me alone, but it also bothers many of our citizens, we have visited more than 300 places in the last six months, and I must say that concern for a certain form of censorship is beginning to grow here. And you might tell me, but she's not gonna be the censorship after all, just like our government agent suggested. We completely disagree. The thing is, why are you setting it up? But the fact that it was shrapnel at the end of last year, when it came up with an action plan, or some kind of proposal even that contained a change in the law, which began to create differences between the individual media and the media, the conscious one and the unconscious one, while the conscious media, which so-called does not spread disinformation, will receive a special subsidy of CZK 100 million, and the media that so-called spreading disinformation without clearly telling how it is known, will go straight to trial because the law will change. And in order to put another cherry on the cake, nonprofits -- well heard, nonprofits -- that will keep a conscious note of it, they will get CZK 50 million a year. You can't be serious? I understand that after the panic broke out, the government pulled the handbrake, pinned it on a government agent who, among other things, worked in one of those nonprofits before, but I wouldn't push him so much, and started to create the impression that this isn't really a government and that it's just going to be discussed. Yes, that is why this should be discussed, among other things, in Parliament, because I consider this to be a very important matter. And no wonder that the Czech Republic, which has lived for decades in a period of totalism, is very sensitive to any report regarding censorship. Although it may not have been meant originally completely wrong, because I realize that fighting misinformation is not an easy thing to do. We also experienced it in the covid age. On the other hand, we never took the liberty of doing it this way in the covid age. And let us always remember one thing, please, that the degree of disinformation is always in direct proportion to how the government can or cannot communicate. Since the government has a number of instruments, it has enough financial resources to do so, it has enough personnel capacity to explain what misinformation is, what is not misinformation, to explain what is dangerous to it. But doing it in this form, I think it's the worst possible. That is why it is another reason for distrusting this government. [[19.20 hours]] The fifth reason is to expand the number of offices, and I claim political nominations to individual authorities. If I wanted to poke, I'd say that my work is being done by three ministers today, and they have six political deputies. I didn't have either. I'm sure you'd give it back to me and say yes, so you shouldn't have been a double minister. So be it. But the fact that nine people do one job just isn't normal. But I'm drawing another point here, and that's that right after you've taken power in this country, you've added three ministerial offices, you've created two political deputys to each minister. Yes, you had every right to do that, even though we weren't using it. But worse yet, you've changed your law, which will mean an expansion and carpet raid by the political deputy, from my point of view, almost the politicians, to individual resorts, and you've seen qualified experts. The same will, of course, also apply to key organisations under the service law regime. But you're creating new authorities. Digital information agency, another 300 people. There are a number of specialists in information systems, technologies and so on. I'm not saying it's a thing that should be underestimated, but at this time, 300 people, a new digital agency. This is what you need to explain to your constituents, especially when you were saying how to save money and how to reduce the number of officials and how to scramble the individual authorities together. You're doing exactly the opposite. Another reason is that taxes are rising. Worse still, the economy is replaced by an accounting approach. You raise taxes in spite of all your promises. Now, let me be objective, I'd understand at some point. We're in an extraordinary time. But what you can't understand is that you're really doing a whole series of these steps behind the edge. A typical example is how you scrubbed into the word and letter with the minority shareholders of ČEZ. And that's nothing in terms of being friends with them. I was at war with them, too, in a way, but it was completely for something else. It was because of a strategic view of whether we were to build a core or not to build a core. Yes, Mr. Šnobr and I had some sharp clashes. I understood him, he understood us, maybe, to a large extent, but in the finals, we went about it in the right way from my point of view. As a majority shareholder, we wanted 70 percent to build the core, and we did our best. We would never allow ourselves to rip off shareholders the way this government did by weighing them more than 90%. And we can still talk about how these taxes are designed. And that, in our opinion, they are very much on the water, perhaps even beyond the edge, given whether it will be recognised by our courts and whether it will be accepted by the European Union, that this is in line with how the so-called windfall tax regime and the extraordinary income levy have been set up. There's been a long discussion here. We do not like the way taxes and their concepts in terms of windfall tax and the very tax on extraordinary income are designed today in terms of how high they will be. It's a mess, but I might understand that, too. We weren't exactly clear about it either, we just didn't know exactly who was going to do what. That's all the more surprising when we see how it's going to compensate, because it's not even clear there. Not from the perspective of how the energy price will develop, but from the perspective of how the Ministry of Industry and the Energy Regulatory Office view it. Only in these two offices is the difference of CZK 40 billion, but that is what President Schillerová said. We do not like the way it is done within the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. Your praise here, Prime Minister, that you have a maximum budget of CZK 151 billion is commendable, but you have to finish. And that's because you've allocated 30 billion less from the state budget than this budget, even less than we have, and that you're simply dealing with that 30 billion CZK by borrowing it and flipping it over to the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. To put it simply, you are indebting the Department of Transport and its organization to a few years in advance, because you will repeat this in the coming years. Thanks to the fact that the loan that is is not 30 billion, it is at 150, 170 billion from the European Investment Bank. No offense to the loan, if you decide to borrow cheaply, I'll take it. But he's supposed to borrow the Ministry of Finance, and he's not supposed to go on translating it into the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. Alternatively, you have to admit it in the state budget deficit. But indebting the Ministry of Transport for the future and comparing it with the fact that it is similar to the PPP project is unfair because it is not a PPP project that is in a completely different regime with regard to who manages it and who does not manage it. So it's a Danish gift to the Department of Transport. And we can continue to talk about how it is in tax policy. And Mrs. Schillerová said it exactly right here. On the one hand, you raise taxes, and I say that it is quite watery, because you will eventually find that the taxes will be paid by one single entity in particular, and this is CEZ, I dare say that it will be 80 to 90 percent of the revenue, but on the other hand, you are shutting down the EET, you are losing CZK 14 billion, and you are doing this despite business unions, associations, chambers. Despite the fact that this is a modern digital instrument, we are becoming the first country throughout the European Union to break the digital relationship between a trader and a state. And we were the ones who made sure that we were one of the first countries to implement it. Well, that's definitely gonna go down in history; 14 billion gone, and then you're surprised you're missing the money. When I recapitulate your management, and I add that you planned a 1,200 billion deficit by 2025 - 1,200 billion - and notice that I don't entirely blame you for the 1,200 billion, I blame you for something completely different. I blame you for laughing at us at a time of crisis, criticizing us at a time of crisis when we had a deficit, among other things, similar to what you did this year, or last year, to be exact. You said how you'd come and deal with it with a wave of your hand, you'd find 80 billion. You didn't find anything! Your deficit is exactly the same. But you laughed at us. And I'd like to see how it is with you when you grow up, how it's going to be. So let's see if you're still here as a government. We did so at the time of growth, and it was Minister Schillerová and before that Minister Babiš, I mean the Minister of Finance, when the sum between 2014 and 2019 did not rise to state debt. He was at about the same level. It was less than 1.7 trillion crowns. But given that gross domestic product has grown, we have therefore reduced debt from some 43, 44 percent to 29 percent. This was the result of government at a time of growth. And don't question how it was done that it was cheated somewhere. Nobody cheated anything. Your ministers could take steps similar to that of the government, or the Minister of Finance Babiš and Schillerová later. You didn't do anything. But we haven't proven that we've increased the debt. We'll see what happens to you at the time of your growth, but it certainly doesn't look like it yet. And we can keep having fun. We can talk about the lack of medicine here. We can talk about your Czech Post crashing. I don't understand how Mr. Vice Prime Minister Rakušan here is celebrating how they consolidated the mail and how they put it together, how it was all wrong before, how they controlled it. Minister, it's almost insolvent. And you can make excuses for anything, but you are the administrator, you are responsible, and you are putting this key institute of the Czech Republic in a critical situation. I wonder how you're going to deal with this. Not to mention you're messing with the company's management. One day you'll call him off, then we'll see if you can take him back, and so on. You know the Dosimeter affair, I'm sure it means something to you. So we can go on like this and show one thing after another. Be fair, I'm not saying it's all your fault. I'm not saying that you're 100% to blame for everything, and I'm admitting that it's not easy at all. We didn't have it easy either. But I daresay we were communicating. We weren't behaving rashly. We tried to explain everything and went into it with some humility. I don't see the humility in you. So I'm saying you're the government of missed opportunities. You have wasted this particularly within the framework of the Presidency of the European Union. I have tried to document on a number of matters that you are a highly incompetent government, and that economic activity can hardly be worse. And unfortunately, you're also an elitist government. Those you don't like, you call them pro-Russian cockroaches, you call them pro-Russian trolls. And if it doesn't work, they're just not Democrats. And not even those presidential candidates except the three you've chosen, so the others from your point of view weren't the right democrats. And that's why we've decided to distrust you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u36	Thank you, and with a factual remark, Mr Foldyna is reporting. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u37	Thank you for the floor. I got it, I gotta go fast, 'cause I got two minutes. Mr. Havlíček here has seriously criticized the Czech Government's performance. One thing he forgot to say or stress is that the Czech Prime Minister's performance will one day be played by people as a performance by Milouš Jakeš on Hrádeček. The Czech Prime Minister has pointed out to us how much gas we have, that we have enough gas. He's been talking over and over about how much gas we have in the tanks, we've had enough. He never once told us how much the gas would cost. How much will it cost in Decin, Varnsdorf, Rumburk? How much will the end customer pay for this? The Prime Minister forgot that at all. The word "enough" is nothing. Friends, ministers of the Czech Government most often used words in their speeches about their activities: Ukraine, European Union, United States, Babiš, that I should not forget, Babiš, and at the end was the Czech Republic. Well, if that's what you're thinking of doing the bills? Perhaps with the exception of the Minister of Transport Kupka, who here spoke very clearly and clearly about his resort and talked about specific things. But friends, we have enough in the Czech Republic and like Ferrari cars. But few people drive it. So the gas isn't like the Ferrari. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u38	Thank you. I do not see another factual one here, so we can move on to another priority right, and this is Mrs. Vice-President of the House of Klára Dostálová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u39	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor, and let me also mention, one member of the government. Today, under the YES movement before the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, we are making a motion to distrust the government. Those reasons are already quite clear today, I will remind them and then I will look more closely at the topics which are closest to me as shadow minister for local development. Dear colleagues, Petr Fiala's government has achieved a few quite unflattering firsts in the past few months. We have not only the highest decline in real wages in the independent history of the Czech Republic, but even the highest decline in real wages from all OECD countries. We have the most expensive price of electricity and gas in purchasing power from all countries of the European Union, and we are exporters of electricity. We have a five-calice, which is supposedly celebrated in Brussels in her own words, but has completely lost the trust of her citizens. We have one of the highest inflation rates in all countries of the European Union in the long run, over 80 percent of households are feeling more expensive, 19 percent are even in major problems. In health care, the five-calice pushes us right into the times of a scarce economy, when after our acquaintances and under the counter today we are not looking for mandarins, but medicines for our children and grandchildren. If this five-calice has quite clearly presented something to us in the past year, that is exactly what ruling in our country is not supposed to look like. My first and absolutely fundamental point is towards both coalitions. Both of these coalitions of the ANO movement before the elections how they blamed on the running belt that we are budgetaryly irresponsible, that we have too much spending, that power, again, that we are helping Czech households and companies. That was blamed on the government of Andrej Babiš. Yes, at the end of our government, we had to move towards an increase in government deficits, stressing that after a long-term decline in relative debt, which everyone in the five-calice kind of ignores. However, this increase in debt had its reasons. We got into an unprecedented situation in the world pandemic, which no government in the world had previously dealt with to such extent, when we had to save not only Czech companies from bankruptcy, but mainly human lives. On the other hand, and objectively, we have succeeded and maintained unemployment at the lowest level from all the countries of the European Union. This is something that even this antisocial government has no merit at all. What I do not fully understand, however, is that these coalitions, which have so much to say about budgetary responsibility, have increased their incompetence, laxity and irresponsibleness by 54 billion. Yes, 54 billion. This is precisely the sum that this government has somehow forgotten to ask the institutions of the European Union to so-called certification of projects, and has subsequently failed to recover European money from these projects. Fifty-four billion. Although this money has already been paid by Czech taxpayers. For the record, in order to be fair, we, our government, and the government of Andrej Babiš, need to state the state in which we handed these European funds over to this government. In December, these are December 2021 figures, where you know that a new government was appointed in December 2021. CZK 487.7 billion was reimbursed in the requests made by the beneficiaries. The state of funds accounted for in payment claims, these applications put together so-called management bodies, or those bodies that manage the individual operational programmes from which we draw money for projects, so it was CZK 444.6 billion. The state of funds in applications, the so-called certification, means how much we have asked the European Commission to pay - CZK 445,7 billion. It is therefore quite clear that, while the difference between billed applications, payment and certification, during our reign, there was a plus - one billion crowns. And it was because Mrs. Alena Schillerová, the finance minister at the time, was literally stomping on us every month to actually make those claims so it wouldn't be on top of the state budget. And this government? Fifty-four billion here, fifty-four billion there. He acts as if the state budget is in some good shape that he doesn't need this money. This really is completely unacceptable to me. My second crucial point is towards the real estate market and the housing crisis, which the current five-calice cannot handle, but rather deepens. On May 13, 2022, the government's five-calice approved an annual delay in the effectiveness of the construction law. At the same time, our construction law, which was really a recodification of construction law in the Czech Republic, was awarded by the law of the year. It is a law that responds to the demand of entrepreneurs and ordinary citizens. The new building law was to ensure a faster construction process, and that is one of the main narrow throats we have here today and which extends our housing construction. Real estate prices according to the Czech Statistical Office increased by 16.6% year on year in the third quarter of 2022. There has also been an increase in the price index, the so-called cost of real estate occupied by owners, by more than 17 percent. The increase in property prices is also due to low construction. The fact that it doesn't stop is because our construction law has been postponed. Until the five-calice recovers, housing prices will not fall. But I would also like to be fair here, and I would really like to appreciate that, at least on the principle of building law, because the five-calice is preparing an amendment to the construction law, so she decided to cooperate with the opposition, and this needs to be appreciated. I believe that building law in the Czech Republic will come to an agreement, because really for all construction workers, but also big companies, because we have to realize that thanks to this really bad environment of construction law in the Czech Republic, investors are also starting to avoid us, and this is certainly not a good sign for the competitiveness of the Czech Republic. And I don't think any other new government should keep opening the building bill, because it's not really about the stability of the environment itself anymore. Let me have a couple of last night's numbers. According to the Czech Banking Association for the whole year 2022, banks and construction savings banks provided mortgage loans of CZK 197 billion, representing a year-on-year decline of around 60 percent. In the year-on-year comparison for December 2022, the fall in mortgage loans was 82 percent. Moreover, the interest rate and the newly granted mortgage loans increased again to 5,98 percent in December. Here we are no longer, fellow Members, talking about the decline, but we are talking about stopping the mortgage market. [[19.40 hours]] In this situation, the current government supports raising interest as a cure for high inflation, but Czech citizens have nowhere to live. They really need us to at least look at the fact that the VAT on construction works will be at zero, or that we will actually address inflation using other monetary instruments than just raising interest rates. Dear colleagues, in the election campaign you have repeatedly talked about the construction of available and social housing, even we have all noticed at your press conferences that you plan to build 100,000 new apartments. So I'm asking you, where are the apartments, where are any plans for construction? You have a quarter of your term of office behind you, and so far I see no drawing, no design, no brick laid. All I can see is the failure to address the housing crisis, delaying the construction law, stopping the MMR programs that dealt with construction. Even in these suspended programmes, young people could ask for a so-called cooperative share, because we are all still talking about cooperative construction here. But the fact that young people can't even reach the cooperative share is no longer of interest to the current government and to the current five coalitions. An air gap is created in the area of housing construction. We've been constantly dealing with the fact that the five-wheelers are going to change their government's programming statement. Well, I have to say, I'm not surprised. Because I've done my job because, of course, I'm a very close chapter of the Ministry of Regional Development, so here I'd just like to show everyone that, of course, if I'm going to look at the government's programming statement, you're going to see the boxes not fulfilled everywhere. [[He's showing the materials to the O.R.]] There really isn't much done yet. Even when we dealt with the housing issue, it was said that brownfields from the National Recovery Plan would go into housing. Well, of course they won't. The challenge is actually still being prepared, it is roughly 2.8 billion, but there is no challenge yet. It is only waiting there now during the year, but paradoxically it will really add wrinkles on the forehead of municipalities and regions that are potential beneficiaries of this challenge. Because it's not enough to say "B," and Mr. Havlíček already suggested it. It just needs to be finished with B, and that is that all these projects must be implemented by the end of 2025 and billed by mid-2026 at the latest when this programme ends. So we don't have money for such significant challenges in 2023, nor do we have a methodology for how to process these projects, and this is really in 2023. Where is the competition, where is the public contract and so on? This means that municipalities will really have a big problem in order to implement these programmes. I must say that the five-calice does not run this country, they do not keep their promises, the House has basically made a political collapsing ground, even though we have all made a promise that we will work especially in the interests of our citizens. It would be nice if we were able to solve all the problems our Czech citizens have together if we were able to communicate with each other if we weren't just fighting here. That would really be appreciated by Czech citizens. It's not happening yet. As a result and proof of this, today's negotiations on government distrust, where so far we have seen only the flaming speeches of individual ministers. I understand they needed praise, but I think Czech citizens see it differently. That's why Petr Fiala's government isn't doing very well in the polls. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u40	Thank you, Madame. Another of the applicants is President Tomio Okamura. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, today in the House, we are discussing a motion to express distrust of Fialův's five-calice government. The government of Petr Fiala lost the last remnants of trust to the overwhelming majority of the Czech public and should resign immediately. This government, in part, deliberately and in part, only by simple stupidity and professional incompetence, is incredibly damaging to our country, our citizens, our companies. The Fialův government deliberately and unnecessarily cost the economy hundreds of billions lost by specific people, families, old people, as well as companies and businessmen, many of whom went bankrupt. Members of the SPD will, of course, vote in favour of distrust of the government of Petr Fiala. A part of the public still hesitates to believe that the government is begging the country completely intentionally, even though we have pointed out many times how the government shamelessly parasites expensive and inflation. Why are overpriced energy, and the government hasn't done anything about it all year long to eventually come up with an extremely high ceiling and a system that rerecords speculators and vacuums the state register? Why doesn't overpriced food matter? At the same time, we have more expensive prices than in the surrounding countries. First of all, the Fialův government draws extreme record revenue from increased VAT collection, i.e. value added tax. In the second line of begging citizens, both the Czech Republic and Europe consider the Fialův Government to be the best way to force us to accept the Green Deal of the European Union. Logic is obvious. For years, the crazy EU plan to abolish traditional energy production has not had a chance, because those energies have been relatively cheap and always cheaper than so-called renewable resources, so Brusel, in cooperation with national governments, has begun to work hard literally to ensure that people and companies do not have that cheap energy, and best that the cheap energy does not exist. So in Brussels, representatives of both the current Fialův government five-wheelers, and, ladies and gentlemen of the ANO movement, also your representatives. We know that many of you, before the parliamentary elections in our Republic from the Green Deal, seemingly distancing themselves so that you don't miss the voters. But the opposite is true. Yes, you preach water in the Czech Republic, and in Brussels you pour wine in barrels. Your representatives in Brussels together crazy Green Deal actively helped to invent and also promoted it. Moreover, the current Fialův government, at the time of its symbolic and shameful last year's Presidency in the European Union, has not only agreed to extend emission allowances to households and transport, thereby fundamentally damaging our citizens financially, but helping them into the world. The Vice Prime Minister and Chairman of KDU-ČSL Marian Jurečka welcomed the agreement that changes in the emission allowance market will also help to protect the competitiveness of industry by applying the rules to goods imported from third countries. Translated into Czech, everyone, both the Czech Government and the rest of Brussels, are aware that emission allowances will make production in Europe more expensive and less competitive. Their plan is that cheap foreign goods by means of taxes and customs will make it as expensive as Europe's. This, in quotation marks, is a beautiful ambitious plan for Europe-wide expensiveness. It is indeed absurd that the Minister of Social Affairs and Chairman of the KDU-ČSL Marian Jurečka defend him. Mr. - I'd give him the nickname of the Minister of Acceleration - Jurečka missed the crucial thing. You will partially protect European goods by stabbing imports in Europe, but at a global level, Czech and European companies are ending. That is, those that remain in Europe and the Czech Republic. As we know, the relocation of large companies and thus employers from Europe have already begun. Don't expect the same crazy ideas to be promoted by Američan, for example. Like today, tomorrow, not only will they abandon emission allowances, but without shame, goods and raw materials will import from anywhere, sanctions of non-sanction. They only think rationally for their own national interest. Their own business is closer to a leaky European coat, or a leaky Union coat. [[19.50 hours]] Expansion of emission allowances for road transport imposed by the Purple Government in practice will mean that motorists will pay extra per litre of petrol and diesel for the permit. I don't know why. But by the end of last year, they started to lower fuel prices, and there really was hope that inflation and expensiveness would be reduced at least in part. All goods depend on transport, and not only that, so instead of supporting our government's decline in fuel prices, it will do the opposite. It will help to push forward solutions that - and that, ladies and gentlemen, are unbelievable - fuel, and thus make all the goods more expensive. This would be incredible if we did not know the real motivation of the Fialův Government - to destroy the Czech economy and Czech households. Discussions about the lack of basic medicines, which have also caused government inaction, can be an end to this. This imminent lack of basic medicines has been known for a long time, but neither Prime Minister Petr Fiala nor Minister of Health Vlastimil Válek from TOP 09 have dealt with the whole matter. So Čech go to Poland to buy drugs, such as Nurofen. In Poland, he wasn't with us. It's a really incredible thing that the Fialův government is doing here. Well, when I see government officials sweating for free for Ukraine in trucks loaded with medicines, knowing that the government has enforced free health care for Ukrainian migrants, while our citizens cannot get and pay the dentist, it is clear that in this approach of the Fialův Government, both care and medicine must be missed for Czech citizens. Who's to benefit? They'd ask the CSIs. Who's getting richer? European speculators, American and Russian energy companies. And who's poor? We, our countries, our people, our companies. We have excesses of cheap energy and, at the same time, the government-controlled company sells it to people and companies at the most expensive prices in Europe. Who's to benefit and who's to hurt? I'm asking. This government is damaging our country's interests. This government does not manage to take care of a proper economy: this government robs its own citizens and companies. That's the first bad news. The worse part is that this incompetent government has decided to destroy our country completely and definitively, not only by taking out the economy in front of Brussels in terms of sanctions and Green Deal, but it has obviously taken the head that it will bring us into war, completely against our will, against the will of most citizens of this country. I really believe that, apart from a few fanatics, nobody wants a war with us, even those who hate Rus. The Fialův Government wants to bring us to war at all costs and without Parliament's consent. Prime Minister Petr Fiala and Secretary of Defense Jana Černochová from the ODS want to enforce the extension of the government's right to send troops abroad for a maximum of 60 days without Parliament's consent and also the stay of foreign troops in our territory. This extension is intended specifically to cover the possibility of government doing so also in the case of life and health protection, the threat of property values or the security of the Czech Republic, while today it is possible only in the framework of peace and rescue operations in natural disasters. And Petr Fiala's government wants to extend this to virtually any foreign operation. The SPD movement proposed their rejection at first reading last week when discussing these changes to the Constitution and the Constitutional Security Act in the House, but unfortunately our Members were the only ones who voted in favour of this rejection. ANO Members have evasively expressed a restraining position on this proposal. The government pushed through the law at first reading, allowing it to send troops for basically any reason without prior approval of the House. It's got a twisted logic. The discussion of sending our troops to the House would provoke public opposition, so the government decided to drag us into the war so as not to provoke resistance in advance. Yes, the moment the government sends Czech soldiers into battle with Russia, we will become a warring party and no one will move on. Russia, in response to this, has moved the iskanders to the Belarusian border, and these missiles are already capable of hitting the territory of Moravia. No matter what anyone thinks, there's a fundamental fact here. Any enlargement of war towards Europe is simply wrong. That is why the SPD clearly states as the only subject in the House that we do not want war, but we want peace and peace negotiations. Such a situation, that is, the escalation of war, suits the United States, which wishes to have exhausted Russia and exhausted Europe, both at the same time, which will be entirely dependent on the US economically. And the Američan themselves won't go to that war. The Fialův Government not only draws us into war, but also prepares other unacceptable proposals. You are preparing a law to introduce censorship, prosecute uncomfortable views and information for the government, and finance pro-government propaganda from the state budget. Under the leadership of Petr Fiala from ODS and the Interior Minister Vít Rakušan, the Chairman of the STAN movement, the Office of the Government and the Ministry of the Interior drew up a plan for the so-called fight against misinformation. But nowhere is it specified what the misinformation is. This plan includes, among other things, the possibility of prosecuting spreaders to the government of uncomfortable political opinions and information, cutting off some opinion opposition websites from advertising and financial support in the order of up to CZK 150 million per year from the state budget, i.e. from the money of all taxpayers, including voters of opposition parties and movements, pro-government media and political non-profit organizations. In the first half of this year, there should be a law in the framework of this project enabling the Fialův Government to block selected websites and prosecute criminally the so-called spread of disinformation without clearly defining what misinformation is and what misinformation is not. In other words, the current government intends to build a network of its own propaganda media for all citizens' money and criminally prosecute opposition political views, including the imprisonment of their carriers. That would be the end of freedom and democracy. This is an unprecedented attack on freedom of speech, expression and thinking by the government of Petr Fiala and ODS, which has not been equivalent since 1989. It is without exaggeration the introduction of totalitarian practices contrary to the democratic character of our state, contrary to the Czech Constitution and to the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, which is part of it and which, inter alia, states in Article 17 that censorship is inadmissible. The SPD movement protests loudly against this upcoming government totalitarianism and will defend freedom and democracy against the current government with all its might, with all its legal democratic means. The Purple government wants to increase people's taxes and increase water and sewers, food, beer, medicines, accommodation and catering services, books, newspapers or public transport. The government is threatening companies and households. The government coalition is going to significantly increase the rates of value added tax, VAT, and we have already read it in mainstream media. And this increase in value added tax is supposed to be for many types of goods and services, including my designated important items of daily consumption for all citizens. According to the Minister of Finance and Vice-President of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura, instead of the two reduced VAT rates, these are now 10 and 15 %, the reduced rates should pay only one reduced rate of 13 and 14 % from next year. The government is even considering moving some services, such as hairdressing services, from a reduced rate to the highest, 21 percent, which, of course, will increase the price of hairdressing services. As a result of the merger of two reduced rates, 10 and 15 %, into one, there would be, among other things, an increase in water and sewer, medicines, food and brewed beer in restaurants, accommodation and catering services, books, newspapers or public transport and so on. This proposed measure, which is another denial of the pre-election promises of five-police parties in the event of its adoption, and the Fialův Government is planning to do so, will seriously damage the economic and social situation of Czech households and threaten the existence of many companies, businesses and jobs. [[20.00 hours]] The SPD movement fundamentally rejects this repeated government attack on the savings and wallets of Czech citizens. We are categorically opposed to raising taxes to Czech citizens, and we will never support this way of improving the disastrous balance of the state budget. Our way is a significant reduction of the necessary state expenditure, such as the contribution of funds to the European Union or overpriced military purchases, and on the public income side, for example the taxation of dividends paid by multinational corporations from the Czech Republic abroad. Let's move on. The Fialův Government wants to owe us enormously to the European Union. Let's not let the government indebt our state like Greece. The government of Petr Fiala from ODS wants to indebt the Czech Republic even more when it seriously considers accepting a loan of CZK 100 to 150 billion from the European Commission. Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura of the ODS agrees with this intention. It should be money to finance energy projects and fulfil environmental commitments. The loan should have a maturity of 30 years and would be closely linked to specific conditions. We have nothing against energy projects and environmental commitments, but there is no need to take such a loan if the necessary expenditures are cut. The loan should have a maturity of 30 years and would be closely linked to specific conditions. According to the Ministry of Finance, the important aspect of the planned loan, according to the Ministry of Finance officials themselves, which the Minister of Finance clearly does not listen to, is an important aspect of the planned loan, a significant monetary risk that is always associated with loans in foreign currency and resulting effects on the financial stability of the Czech public budgets. The SPD's movement does not agree with this further planned high credit mainly because its preparation takes place outside the standard process and rules of the state budget and without parliamentary scrutiny. We consider it unacceptable to increase the Czech Republic's debt by CZK 295 billion shortly after the approval of the State Budget Act for 2023, where the government has voted for the deficit, which in itself is record-breaking, so the government wants to increase this deficit by almost 50 percent. This is an unbelievable gamble of the Fialův Government, which lied before the elections when it promised citizens a reduction in state debt. The Purple Government is leading us on a path similar to Greece, where our state will be totally indebted and totally dependent on the European Union and globalist financial institutions. The Fialův Government refuses to help our citizens, the city of Přerov has repaired 15 apartments for migrants from Ukraine thanks to the government program. ejhle, if you want to help yourself, you can do it. Thousands of our pensioners, but also Czech singles or poor families live in residential hotels because social housing is not for them and will not be for them. On the contrary, in order for Ukrajinec to have free health insurance, politicians from the government's five-calice are considering charging the Čech health care to make money on the Ukrajinec. I am not saying not to help the really needed, on the contrary, but in this way, when millions of Czech citizens are getting into economic and social problems, this certainly cannot be done. The Fialův government is gambling with the future of our country and leading it into disaster. Each of the Čech now has an average debt of CZK 275,000 under the Fialův Government. The management of the Czech state under the government of the ODS coalition, TOP 09, KDU-ČSL, STAN and Pirates ended last year with a deficit of incredible, but it is so, 360.4 billion crowns. As a result, the total government debt has already increased to CZK 2.895 trillion. The average debt of CZK 275 000 for each Čech. The government originally planned a budget deficit of CZK 280 billion for last year. In the autumn, however, the amendment to the Act increased it even more, even though the government's revenues rose by CZK 137 billion in excess of 2021 last year due mainly to higher VAT collection, because, as it increased, high inflation, which the Fialův Government does not solve, so more VAT was collected, so it is not because of some positive government activity, it is because of the government's negative activity, but rather than the government moving the money to Czech citizens, it does the opposite. And this year, Petr Fiala's government plans to manage the deficit of CZK 295 billion. Reality, however, can be significantly worse, because according to economic experts' estimates, the government will not collect on an extraordinary tax, the so-called wind fall tax imposed on energy, refineries and banks, by far as planned. The Minister of Finance Zbyněk Stanjura of the ODS plans to take the next loan of up to CZK 150 billion with the European Union this year. As I was saying, this is a total gamble on the future of the economy and the social stability of the Czech Republic with all the disastrous consequences imaginable, and the SPD is rejecting this. Due to the inactivity of the Fialův Government, food prices in the Czech Republic are growing almost fastest in Europe. Food and consumer goods are cheaper in Poland and Germany than in the Czech Republic. According to its Prime Minister Petr Fiala's statement, the current government is negatively opposed to a possible reduction in VAT on food. At the same time, we have the highest VAT on food in Central Europe and one of the highest in Europe at all, that is to say 15 per cent, while neighbouring countries have 10 per cent and less, or even temporary zero as in neighbouring Poland. That is why Čech in the finals go shopping to Poland, where there is a patriotic government. The current government of Petr Fiala deliberately resigned from any effort to help citizens with astronomical growth in the cost of life's basic needs. However, most European countries have already taken steps to reduce the prices of basic foods, the combination of VAT reductions to zero rates and price ceilings, including all neighbouring countries of the Czech Republic. As a result of the inactivity of the Fialův Government, there is an undignified situation where Czech citizens are forced, for existential reasons, to go shopping in large numbers to Poland or Germany, where food and other consumer goods are significantly cheaper than in our home. The reason for the high food prices in the Czech Republic is that the current government, once again the only one in Europe, is not helping domestic farmers and food professionals with high energy prices, which we have the highest in Europe, year on year plus 67 percent increase, which is the highest in Europe. So even in the international comparison, the Fialův government is totally failing. So the excuses of the Prime Minister and ministers that we still hear in the media, how well they do everything and how difficult the situation is, is a lie and nonsense, because compared to all European countries, the Czech Republic has the highest annual increase in energy prices by 67 percent. Therefore, because of the government's inactivity, food prices in the Czech Republic are growing virtually fastest in Europe, significantly more than the average inflation rate. In some cases, flour, milk. oils, fats, more than 50 per cent year on year. By the way, inflation is highly above average in the Czech Republic compared to the average in the European Union. This is one of the basic reasons for the declines in the standard of living of our households and the inexcusable failure of the incompetent five-police government of Petr Fiala from ODS, which should simply resign. Already a million Czech citizens live below the poverty line, their number has increased significantly during the current government. The decline in real wages in the Czech Republic is the most significant of all the Member States of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, OECD, i.e. there are basically all European advanced states. And according to Poverty Watch's regular report, a European network against poverty, already lives a million Czech citizens below the poverty line, and another million are at risk of poverty. Czech citizens poor even faster than the average in the European Union is based on these figures. And in the European Union, many poverty indicators have grown rapidly in recent years, by the way. But the Czech Republic is poorer than the average in the European Union. And again, it's a matter of Petr Fiala's government. [[20.10 hours]] The number of Czech households, when we look further at these figures, the number of Czech households with income below the poverty line increased from 9 percent during 2021 to 17 percent in the current government of Petr Fiala. There are about 9 percent of the population in execution, that is, every tenth in essence, and in some poorer regions, there are up to 16 percent of the citizens, 16 percent of the citizens. The report further states that 25 percent of Czech households cannot afford a sudden expenditure of around CZK 10,000 without debt. The average Czech household now spends 48 percent of its income on housing and food, and low-income households account for up to 70 percent of their income. The government of Petr Fiala from the ODS clearly bears responsibility for this situation, which, on the one hand, directly causes its policy to increase all basic life costs and needs and, on the other hand, rejects any assistance to Czech citizens to mitigate their impact. As a result of the Czech government's harmful policy, our working citizens are facing the highest annual decline in real wages, minus 8.9 percent, among the countries associated with the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, OECD. So again, even in the international comparison, the Fialův government has failed completely and failed. So once again, I'm going to repeat that some excuses by the Fialův Government about how difficult this is and how difficult Russia or Ukraine has put us in, or I don't know who, so that's a lie. Because another, the second parameter I have already mentioned, is that compared to the European comparison, the international comparison, the Fialův Government is the hardest thing to do here in the Czech Republic. This means, whether it be him or him, it is clear that the Fialův government is one of the most incompetent, if not the most incompetent in Europe at all. Nearly one million Czech seniors already have a problem with insufficient income and reimbursement of the cost of their basic livelihood. It is very difficult for them to obtain a social benefit as temporary aid from the state. According to the Invisible project study, up to 889 000 Czech citizens are among the so-called invisible seniors, i.e. those who are unable to cover their livelihoods in the long term, but at the same time fall through a system of state social assistance mainly due to its complexity, difficult accessibility and ininformation from the authorities. Nearly 50,000 seniors are in execution. It is not possible to accept that, after a lifetime of honest work, seniors live in undignified conditions and debts, or undergo humiliating procedures for social welfare applications. According to the SPD, in the case of seniors in the first place, the need for the adoption of a minimum wage law equal to the current minimum wage for all those who have fulfilled the legal conditions of age and periods of pension insurance as well as for setting up a fair remuneration for pensions that would not discriminate against low-income seniors. But the members of the Purple Five-calice government have repeatedly blocked our proposals by refusing to discuss them. And in this situation, at a time when the Governor of the Czech National Bank Michl predicts inflation of 20 percent at the beginning of next year, the Fialův Government decided to increase the minimum wage by just 6.8 percent and the basic component of pensions by only 140 crowns. The degree of sociality and inability of the Fialův Government has no equivalent in modern Czech history. And the SPD will continue to use all political possibilities from the opposition to put an end to the harmful effects of the Fialův Government. This government doesn't defend the interests of our citizens. It is a government that, in the name of foreign interests, is willing to liquidate both its own economy and its own citizens. It's a government that's not supposed to be here. The vote on distrust is almost the last hope to call off the Fialův government and prevent both economic and war catastrophes. Dear colleagues and colleagues from the government coalition, you who have kept your senses, think about what your government is doing and preparing, and consider whether your conscience allows you to support it in doing it. This is not just about the political damage it will cause you, but it is about the immeasurable economic damage that this government is doing, whether it is about the risk of a war that this most unpopular government in the history of our state wants to put us all in. Even the Protectorate government had greater support for citizens than Petr Fiala's government, and this is evidence of something. The Protectorate government collaborated with the Němec because it had to. This government is collaborating to the detriment of citizens with foreign powers because it wants to. Nothing more disgusting to imagine, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u42	Thank you. And since I do not see any other preferential rights here at the moment, we can embark on a debate within the framework of the general debate. And I can see she's coming to the counter, Mrs Barbora Urbanová, and I'm giving her my word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u43	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President. Dear Minister, Madam Secretary, dear colleagues, I will begin myself. I've been a Member for exactly 464 days, I had to rewrite that because I thought I wasn't gonna talk until tomorrow, so I have 465, anyway. However, it is 464 days as well as some other pledges here. And in that time, we have repeatedly faced the doubts of the opposition and the demonstration of these doubts. In the context of extraordinary meetings, we have heard who has the skills to lead this country, and what its leadership should or should not look like. And I just add that I personally consider it completely legitimate, and I am expressing myself for the first time. Because after the time I've spent here so far, I have to say that I've given her an honest job, a feeling that there are a few things that need to be said here. The first one - and I promise to be brief - and the most important one for me is that we, who sit here together, can influence our country from our positions. It is absolutely illusionary to say that the opposition can't do anything, and I hope that we are all really aware of that. An example of the agenda that I personally devote myself to is the social problem of domestic violence. I must therefore highlight the opposition colleague Táňa malý, who set up a subcommittee on domestic and sexual violence. Yes, it is true that we often disagree with each other in the subcommittee. We often have a long discussion, and we certainly have a slightly different idea of the final solution to the problems, or their speed, which belongs to the subcommittee. But saying that nothing happens and nothing changes, that would definitely be a lie. When you look deeper into the problem, it's really amazing that it looks like a unified definition of domestic violence is going to be passed into the Civil Code. And it will not only be a signal that the problem that, according to various surveys and analyses, may concern up to a fifth of the Čech, the government, the people who run this country, and again I include us, Members and Members, that the problem therefore matters. It will also be a clear report of what domestic violence is, that it is not just cases where one of the household's blood is flowing. There are also cases where one partner takes money from another, mentally harassing him, requiring sex under threat, or using common children to blackmail others. It may concern both women and men, seniors and children. For me personally, it is a huge shift in this issue, but I realize that only the definition and only one law is not enough and will not be enough. I have a map that shows what the real victim of domestic violence must be dealing with. If the state can handle it, the survivor will often become a hero who continues to talk about his experience and helps others. Our system is quite hostile so far and does not help the victims, often they feel that they will be abused. They're gonna find out all the information about who did what to whom, who told who, how he looked at it. They find out who they are and at the same time consider what they are wearing and whether they look intelligent, as if intelligence has something to do with whether or not you can be a victim of domestic violence. Every survivor has to go through this process, but it's not very friendly, and a lot of the little things, a lot of the little problems we see can be adjusted in this process. That's what we're going to work on. And I don't feel from either of the ministers concerned that they wouldn't care. And that is precisely what is decisive for me and why I am voting for trust in this government, but this time I am speaking for it. They care about people. The effort to solve an unsolvable equation when you just don't sell freedom for cheaper gas and leave the next generation in debt to the state is huge. But this effort, this will of help, is complicated by the fact that so far, the state apparatus does not work with linked registers, connected data about people in this country. And I'm not here to poke who's been here for the past eight years with the government. [[20.20 hours]] Another example is that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs did not abandon the parents of premature infants. Thanks to an amendment to the law, which we approved here in June, they are entitled to a transport allowance, so the life situation when you visit your baby for neonatology often, if not daily, into a remote hospital is actively addressed. That it's not enough money? That this isn't happening? If anyone thinks so, let's make it better. The door at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs was open to me 13 months ago, when I was there for the first time, and I am not an MP from the same side as Minister Jurečka. What do I mean now? We all have great opportunities to influence our country and what it looks like. I'm not always convinced that we all use them here. I often get the feeling that problems are just being presented here and thrown over the counter at responsible people. On TV, we argue like crazy - and again, it works like a space where problems are thrown to a solution instead of solutions being offered. And yet it ends with a simple comparison of what anybody's ever done and screwed up. And yet, as I was saying at the beginning, we are already here for me almost incredible 464 days, when instead of blurring, whining and blaming each other, we can really do something for people. I try very hard not only in domestic violence, not only with premature babies, but also to move the laws that can help our over-indebted society. Here, too, I see the will to cooperate from opposition benches - the health of Mr Nacher, through Mr President. I feel support for the ministers concerned by this agenda. We also have topics in common with some opposition Members, I have already said that. Then let's work together. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u44	Thank you, ma'am. I see a real one here. If he is, then Mr Patrik Nacher. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u45	Well, thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I have applied to this fact before I was appreciated by the honourable Member because I wanted to say that I wanted to appreciate the contribution and speech because after a long time I have heard someone from the coalition who is not attacking the opposition, who is going to highlight some clear topic, something of content, something that I am really going to do here, as I am stressing, for example, consumer protection, and that is why I volunteered to appreciate it. So it's not just about the trench war tonight, it's about the fact that you're supposed to praise someone on the other side when they think it's supposed to sound like that on the microphone. And the way Barbora Urbanová performed is in contrast with the way some ministers here, and I'm sorry, on the contrary, they blamed us for calling this meeting and then not listening. And here I would like to use the words of Zbyněk Stanjura, your finance minister, who, in my question, heard me or not, when I was discussing the budget, said that we didn't have to be in this hall, and yet we hear you because the transmission here goes to all the rooms, to all the offices, even to all the restaurants. So, for example, I, and I believe that most of my colleagues, we listened to the speeches and contributions of the ministers of this government, and we didn't have to be in this room. Those are the words of your finance minister. So please, so that we don't share with each other in this, I will also forgive the part of my speech when it comes to it sometimes, I don't know when, because the moment the opposition MPs started to appear, there's no one here but the Home Secretary, no one from the government, and that would get us nowhere. So once again, I thank my honored colleague Barbořa Urbanová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u46	I thank you for the state of the atmosphere and I would like to ask another who is duly logged in, and this is Mr Ondřej Lochman. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u47	Good evening, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. So if I could hear Patrik Nacher talking like that before the meeting was called, maybe I wrote the speech differently. Now it's been so nice, sweet. And I have a lot of reaction to what I've heard about all the sins that the government has done, so maybe Patrik Nacher won't be mad that it'll ever be nasty. Anyway, my fellow Members, my fellow Members, we have another meeting here about the government's mistrust and a second time after five months. I would like to say, if this is not a little, my dear leaving colleague Schillerová, only twice in five months, through the President, a vote of mistrust. [[Mrs Schiller returns to the hall shortly after hearing her name.]] Surprisingly, this vote came out again before the elections, and it will turn out to be a confirmation that this government has the confidence of this House. We could work here together, make laws together, have committees on Thursday. Well, unfortunately. However, it is very lucky that we have another election here in a year and a quarter, sometime in the spring I suppose, in 2024, so I hope that we will finally work together at the next meetings and not just talk here. Representatives of the opposition have given reasons for calling the meeting, and it is beautiful to see how sometimes they can bend information and, above all, how you interpret things in your own way. For example, the Czech Presidency is for me, and I have not only heard it from one side, i.e. from this, but from the public, a great deal of the good work of our government. It's a job that this republic has regained its respect. [[Mr. Rabbit's note off the microphone, laughing from the left.]] Yes, sir, through the President, králíček. We ourselves have been abroad several times in the framework of PS NATO together with our colleague Králíček, and he himself has seen how, for example, in the UK or Madrid at the PS NATO summit, the Czech Republic really now holds respect for its position in the current crisis as well as for how it has managed to lead the Presidency in the EU Council. So let us see why this government has my trust and why it has this House's trust, and why it will also have the confidence of this House after this meeting. The already mentioned European Presidency. Let us begin with the figures that have already taken place and what has taken place during this Presidency: 50 formal meetings of the Council of Europe, 1,500 meetings of working groups, two-day Prague summit, 14 informal EU councils, 314 events in the Czech Republic. These are the results of the Presidency of the Czech Republic in the Council of the EU, and we are talking about numbers. But besides numbers, we also have to look at quality. And just because ministers can respond to journalists and their partners from Europe in several languages, it's very good for them to make a quick deal, well, it wasn't about "we will see," but it was "we know, how to do it." The Czech Republic is finally seen as a trustworthy and capable partner. And the biggest change -- the government doesn't get chaotic. [[Mrs Schiller off the mic: Definitely not. That deserves a round of applause. - Let's hear it from the left.]] Thank you for your applause to our opponents, it is nice that we can respond to each other in this way. We managed to conclude agreements on an alliance that seemed impossible at first, and thanks to which we also managed to secure sufficient gas supplies, a solidarity agreement in case of lack of gas - and this is how I could speak further. When we look at the organisation of the European Community summit in Prague, this has become a historic event. I am convinced that when history books are written for another thirty, forty years, this will be mentioned in Prague and in this format. The European Union has simply shown, under the baton of the Czech Republic, that it will not split up and that it will fight together against the Russian aggressor, that it will manage. And the Czech Republic really has a lion's share in this - and thus the role of this government during the Presidency of the EU Council. When I was talking about the negotiated agreements, we also need to look at the energy. Energy security was and is a priority of this government and was also the main topic of the Czech Presidency in the EU Council. Our government fought to ensure sufficient gas, sufficient energy, organised five extraordinary energy councils, where Minister Síkela negotiated in September the introduction of a temporary energy ceiling within the European Union. By the way, the price of gas on European exchanges is still falling. Eight meetings of Ministers for Energy were held, and the agreements concluded here followed legislative regulations that are incorporated into the legislation of individual Member States. [[20.30 hours]] The performance of the Czech Presidency is therefore highly evaluated. And surely you can, and rightly, blame this government for many things, but let us work together on the fact that if something really goes well and brings a good picture of our republic within Europe, in the world, then it needs to be appreciated. We have also managed to adopt a number of key tools to reduce sharp fluctuations in the price of energy on the stock exchange, to stop excessive profits for electricity producers and to implement joint purchases of natural gas and solidarity in the event of a physical shortage of this energy. The REPower EU plan called for a gradual cessation of dependence on Russia in terms of fossil fuels and presented ways to achieve a significant reduction in imports from Russia this year. So Europe already has a plan to buy 13.5 billion cubic meters of gas together. And the regulation facilitates coordination between states, traders and the optimal use of available gas infrastructure. We want to vote here - or so some here want to vote and express distrust of the government. And I can even ask here what the government did last time in the field of energy security. When I looked as a member of the Economic Committee and at what has happened over the past eight years, for example, for security and the so-called segmenting of energy sources, this government did not inherit much. Like the TAL pipeline. It still doesn't have enough capacity, and it's only left on paper, and you could say it's a familiar sentence of the classic - where the TAL pipeline is extended? Can I see him? Well, it's not, and it wasn't. This government did not inherit him. The so-called TAL, the Transalpinian pipeline, does not have sufficient capacity, and one of the reasons for this was the exchange of management in MERO and so on. However, I do not want to say all the details here, but it really seemed like this republic deserved another source of oil, for example, it never did. And when I look at today's government, Minister Síkela negotiated an increase in the capacity of the TAL pipeline in Germany, thus ensuring for the future steps to ensure our state's partial energy independence. So you see, it's okay. If we look at another commodity, namely gas, we can look at the Stork II pipeline that runs from Poland. Well, in Slovakia, it doesn't lead to us yet. When I looked at what was mentioned in the media, already under Sobotkův's government, the goal was to reduce Russia's independence after the occupation of Crimea. That was one of the priorities, but unfortunately nothing happened again. So the project fell asleep, Poland itself ceased to be interested, and the pipeline is not here. I'm not gonna go into details, I'm just saying it's not. And when I look back at the media press from the last six months, I found, for example, that this government is dealing with this and that Prime Minister Fiala started negotiations with Poland in September on the renewal of cooperation on this pipeline. So if we had to look at what's behind us... or what this government has taken over, such energy security, there isn't much. Thus, it is mainly an addiction to energy from Russia. And okay, they were fucking cheap, but that's the price that needs to be paid once. And that is what has now happened to us here. The fact that foresight wasn't here, the fact that energy security wasn't secured. If we look at renewables, and this is the business card of our entire Republic, today's share of renewables within the EU, then the Czech Republic is the fifth. But not from number one, fifth from bottom. When I look at what has been done to this government in terms of the so-called OZ, i.e. renewable resources, we approved the Act on Support for the Construction of Renewable Resources last month, and Minister Síkela is preparing a proposal for a Community Energy Act. In order for the list to be complete in terms of energy, we could certainly look at the fact that it is negotiated... well, the core as an emission-free source of energy, that's also the credit of this government, and a tender was launched for Dukovan's completion. Unlike our predecessors, however, we did not allow companies from countries that could be a security risk to the Czech Republic. I found out that Andrej Babiš said it was a mistake for Sobotkův's government to fail to complete the tender for Temelín's completion. Unfortunately, you can say the same about him. So that's my comparison between the two governments, the main thing. If we looked at the budget, it would certainly be a lot. I would now stop at the fact that, in addition to the energy security that this government inherited without infrastructure, without sufficient resources, sufficient energy from various sources, you advised us to act primarily as colleagues in Hungary. I have been looking at what inflation is like in Hungary now, and it is 24.5 percent. And that was given to us as a role model for how we're supposed to ceiling, for how we're supposed to look at fuel. By the way, the demand for fuel in Hungary today is almost 30% higher than the daily capacity of petrol stations. We are back - not today, but we are back about three weeks, so Hungarian drivers had to refuel in the surrounding states or get energy otherwise. The demand for petrol thus doubled. If we looked at the prices, I looked at the fuel prices, you often blamed us. In November, I showed Mrs Vildumetzová, who is not present, that fuel prices are falling. She laughed at me that it wasn't and it won't, but if we look at Hungary today and the Czech Republic today, in Hungary, petrol is more expensive by 2 crowns, I'm based on tables at odds.cz Everyone can compare. The increase was also 10 crowns in conversion, almost a second after the Hungarian government decided to end the ceiling. Orbánův's tactics in Hungary have therefore gone back, failed and inflation is much higher than in our country. That's a recommendation on how to behave, so that's what you've been giving us: a little chaos, a little populism, it's gonna work. When I put this whole comparison, I would like to say that just for the fact that this government works systematically, without chaos, politely, within the Presidency of the EU Council, it has been able to convince the Czech Republic that it is a dignified, capable partner, so it is only for this that the government deserves to be trusted and at least from the opposition the patience and the absence of these meetings every five months, let's say, it is more like four and a half, and that is not including Christmas holidays. In addition, I would also like to mention that this government in energy security - and I hope that we agree with colleagues on this, even though there has been a strong criticism from my mouth about how it is not prepared - in that year, in the safety of energy and in the provision of various sources of energy for the Czech Republic, it has done much more than it has done in recent years. These are the reasons, and one of the many reasons why this government has confidence and why - and I believe it will still have confidence tonight, tonight, depending on whether we end tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, anyway after this meeting. Dear colleagues, thank you for your attention, and I hope that there will be discussions that we can discuss, and I believe that we will soon get to the laws that we have to work on, because we have a lot to do, as well as working in the committees. Have a good night.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u48	Thank you. Your performance raised several factual points. First Mrs Balaštíková. And before I give her my word, I'll load up my apologies. Mrs. Jana Berkovcová has been apologizing since 14.30 for health reasons. Mrs. Mračková Vildumetzová has been apologizing to Jana since 20.15 for family reasons. And Minister Šalomoun Michal apologizes from 20 o'clock for personal reasons. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u49	Good evening, colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to respond to my previous speaker. A colleague through you, Madam President, is a very nice person, but if it weren't for you, I would perhaps consider it an insult to your speech. The Czech Republic has respect abroad. Mr. Colleague, I don't think you know how foreign policy is done. So I have never experienced, in my whole life, reading somewhere, that at some summit or political meeting one country said to another - you are doing it wrong. You know, it's more like saying maybe when the PMs or the presidents are friends, it's more like saying - you, this wasn't quite good. But, okay, it's your romantic view of how we do foreign policy. [[20.40 hours]] Well, you said you wanted to cooperate, you said - let's work together. If that were true, it would never have to happen today. We wouldn't call this out. And I said it in the media. I was here, and I know how we reacted. We responded to your attitudes, how you behaved, how some of your representatives laughed about it. And our club president calmed us down, and she said that we would actually provoke a reaction that you would abuse it, that it was some sort of activist program to support our presidential candidate. It was a reaction to your behavior, it was a spontaneous reaction. I insist, all my colleagues know. They know how we talked about it at the club, and unfortunately, even those who expressed themselves from our benches, for example, against our candidate's candidacy, so they raised your hand so that the government wouldn't be able to trust this day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u50	Thank you for keeping time. And another one, with a factual remark, is signed by Mr králíček. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u51	Madam President, Minister, Minister, fellow Members, I have to respond to my previous speaker's speech. I think that his performance fell into the next appearance of ministers and Vice-Presidents and government MPs. I understand, it was a performance full of insults and dehonestation. I also understand that you are excited and expect your candidate to win the castle. He'll close the circle. The circle closes in that the five-calice will control the Castle, the Senate, the Chamber of Deputies, Prague and the region. And the government, of course. You will limit our word in the House to your draft Rules of Procedure so that the opposition cannot speak, or you will limit it to its maximum. And under the cover of the fight against misinformation, you will regulate information. You'll have total power. Total power over this country. You will roll it, just as you are wrestling opposition in the Chamber of Deputies. But you shouldn't forget that almost three million still didn't vote for you. And I firmly believe that these people will make it very clear to you one day. And I'm going to stand in the front row.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u52	Thank you for keeping time. And another, with a factual point, is Mr Kolovratník. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u53	Thank you for the floor. Well, I have to respond to Ondra Lochman. And I must say that I, like the Vice-President of the Economic Committee, am more than eight years old, my colleague. And until now, through Madam President, I have weighed Ondřej Lochman as Chairman of the Transport Sub-Committee as a colleague who is interested in transport, engaged in transport and is trying to address it. But please, Mr. Colleague, if your Martians from STAN are going to give you a text before you start reading it, try to verify it and not embarrass yourself here at the Chamber of Deputies plenary. That performance was totally awkward and comic. And I'll be specific. When you brag about STAN's achievements as Minister Síkela's success, he brought the Community Energy Act here and so on - the law was supposed to be here in the summer. That's what you promised sometime in the spring that it would be here for the holidays. You brought it at the end of the year, and it's too late, it could have worked for six months. When you brag, Mr Babiš and Mr Havlíček, taxonomy and core, this matter was not arranged by this government, it was arranged by your predecessors, the ANO movement, Andrej Babiš and Karel Havlíček, and we negotiated that the core was recognised at least temporarily in the taxonomy of the European Union. You had the opportunity to work on the long and lasting recognition of the core. You've done absolutely nothing about it. When you're talking about the TAL pipeline, the Stork pipeline - please read about it again. The Polák didn't want Stork. It wasn't up to us, it was up to them. And you, as opposition at that time, agreed with us that the energy, whether it's oil or gas from Russia, that it's cheap, that it works, that it's just some kind of energy source and infrastructure that we have here. We've never, ever heard from you that we should make a difference. And if we want to go into that history - I still have five seconds - it was your coalition partner ODS who sold out our state's infrastructure in the 1990s. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]] Now, now we're all collecting the consequences. Along with you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u54	Thank you. And next, Mr Kubíček is registered with a factual remark. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u55	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. On your behalf to Mr Lochman. I respect him very much, and his work on the Economic Committee is visible, however, by some misinformation that has taken place here. It was the completion of Temelín. And you know what Temelin's completion ended up on? A way of financing, nothing else. At the time there was no resistance and contradiction from whether to compete, including Russia, or not. Second thing. When Dukovany competed, it was already decided that the Rus would be eliminated from the tender. That didn't happen during your reign, that was before. As far as the Stork pipeline is concerned, it really ended up on the Polish side with their disapproval to make it work. And we all sat on that economic committee, and I remember very well, and they were mainly members of KDU-ČSL, their support for cheap gas was unprecedented at that time. I was one of the few who yelled about some diversification and the distribution of individual resources. And, as I recall, at that time, my honored colleague, through Mr President, Berenika Peštová, who went there from the position of Deputy Minister of the Environment, heard that many times on my part when I warned against the inclusion of gas as an emission-free source. Then we have a few more of these things. With regard to oil, oil surplus, there has now been some report, and no one is likely to submit to Janek Kroupa that he would adhere to the YES movement, and it has been found that many of the oil flowing through these pipelines is originating in Russia, except it has a different stamp, another country of extraction, and in some way it gets here even though certain sanctions are in place. I think we really need to remember the solar tunnel. We weren't here at the time when we started spending incredible money on nonsense PV energy projects. And I gotta go, I got more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u56	Thank you for keeping time. And next up, Mrs Peštová is registered, and then Mr Lang is reporting from the post. Madam, your two minutes. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u57	Thank you for your word. I would like to respond to Mr Lochman, although he seems to be dealing with something more important now, through Madam President. They don't work anymore, okay, thank you. Anyway, when you said here how this government doesn't act chaoticly, I've performed here several times, and I think you've been there, too, and you've heard the way the laws are adopted here. In what way, not in the ordinary legislative process, but in how they are loaded here, that is, through Members or through Senate initiatives and so on. In any case, there is no proper legislative process. This means that it does not go into interdepartmental commentary proceedings, neither internal nor interdepartmental, it does not go to the Legislative Council of the Government, nor to the Committees of the Legislative Council of the Government. I held in my hand a few times what we got here this morning when we were supposed to discuss the law. I'm talking about an energy law that's been amended several times. It was a few amendments that we should have concluded within a few hours, and we did not know what we were going to discuss and what was the substance of the matter and the amendments. So don't tell me this government isn't messy. He's acting incredibly chaotic. And you need to know that, too, because you are a member of the Economic Committee, and I sat on that Economic Committee and there were big discussions. But there was very little time for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u58	Thank you for keeping time. And, as others, Mr Lang is reporting with the facts. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u59	Thank you, Madam President. I also want to join my colleagues here on the right side of the spectrum. We have 20.48 hours, and you can see that we are really happy that you have allowed us into the debate. If the debate had been launched earlier, perhaps after the Prime Minister's speech and the appearance of ministers such as the Minister of Defence, such as the Minister of the Interior, as the Minister of Foreign Affairs, you would have learned what is the reason why we are calling this extraordinary meeting to express the government's distrust, and it is the second time within your thirteen months of the government. It's because, colleagues, we don't have any whine and whine as it begins to be used now. We're not whining, we're not whining. [[20.50 hours]] We just want to make our proposals, and we've taken advantage of the whole spectrum of options we've had. We wanted to include points in the agenda. We've had some extraordinary meetings. You didn't let us do any of that. Just your dominant position, the 108 Members who hold together in your five-wheeler, does not actually allow the opposition to do their job properly. We have a large spectrum of our constituents. Our voters are turning to us. And we also want to deal with our cause as far as possible. And if you're complaining that you don't have any quotas that you've practically passed almost no laws, that's your problem. And you guys should have a decent arrangement with us, and you shouldn't be running us over like that. We really didn't get a chance to perform today. I myself will be enrolled in a proper debate tomorrow. But if we had opened the debate earlier, which I do not understand, that you, in fact, graciously at our meeting, which we called upon to distrust the government, allowed us to open the debate after seven hours, when we were actually listening here, how excellent it is, how it is ideal, logically, because, of course, the media is somehow picking it up, you were saying it to each other on the news. And today, where did we get to? You have one secretary left, and all the other ministers have probably walked home. [[Langshade]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u60	Thank you for keeping time. I have another factual point here - Mrs Ožanová. Madam, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u61	Thank you. Madam President, the only Madam Secretary, if I am looking, yes, the number is correct. I thought I would respond, listened very carefully to my colleague Lochman, I thought I would respond to transport. However, this did not happen. So I'm going to respond to energy. You know, the energy praise, Minister Síkela, how he did everything well and how great it all was... You know, I remember one moment from the Economic Committee, when we were supposed to approve another of the energy laws in a legislative emergency, and I asked very incoherently when you wanted us to vote on the amendments that I wanted to read them. I remember, that was very interesting for me - because what cooperation? You asked the opposition and even your own people to raise their hand for something no one had at their disposal and no one read, just because it was given to the Ministry. I beg you, this cooperation, not just cooperation, isn't supposed to look like this at the House. The MP has a right to know what he's voting on, even though he's coalitional. You couldn't even read it to the Coalition Members back then. So this is what the work of the great Minister of Síkela looks like.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u62	Thank you for keeping time. We are continuing the general debate in which Mrs Voborská is signed up. The Member is not present. Next up, Mr Bělor. Before I give you my word, I'll make one more apology. Mr. Richter apologizes at 5:00 for family reasons. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u63	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members, I have a short contribution, but I think it must be said, with the fact that, through Madam President, I wanted to turn to President Okamura and return to 10 January, when here in the controversy about freedom of speech, when I quite understood that it may not be entirely easy to create a legal standard that would prevent a modern state from spreading hoax and fake news, to find a standard that would also respect the principles of free distribution of views, freedom of speech and so on. However, there were words from President Okamura: But they simply label it, as the Goebbels did and as the Nazis did. And don't be mad at me, I don't understand how anyone can use this terminology on the ground of a democratic state, and on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. And that's what I wanted to strongly oppose. In addition, I would recommend to those who tend to use such opinions in this controversy to look at, for example, the law on the protection of the Republic, it is Law No. 50/1923 Coll. And that's where you'll find the law was quite strict. And I wonder if anyone would find the courage to call the First Republic Goebbels or notabene Nazi. And here I get to the point, and that's political culture, and the definition of what an insult is. We may be able to sort of define what an insulting word is in terms of argotic, folk talk or what garbagemen or human scum say. But don't be mad at me, there are also insulting words of cultural history. And the word Nazi just doesn't sound on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. And that makes me very angry because of me, and I believe, even for all my colleagues from the government coalition, but to some extent these things need to be talked about in terms of protecting the members of the opposition, because it can also happen to you that someone will compare you to the Nazis. I am very much opposed to this, and I would like to ask that, in the future, everyone who is in charge of this hearing, and these words will be said by the speaker, that such words will simply not be spoken on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. I am prepared for myself if it happens again - and I must say that Mr Okamura did not use the word Nazi for the first time, he used it in that time when I had the strength and desire to listen to his endless outbursts, at least three times. And I do not know why we could not use the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies in this situation, which in Section 13 states exactly how to proceed. And we can also proceed by saying that I am very happy, as offended, to put forward a proposal to the mandate and to the Immune Committee to take action. I would like to say one more thing, however, in full conclusion. I would like to thank the YES movement for an extremely rare opportunity to speak in the context of a situation that is truly unprecedented, when the Chamber of Deputies was manipulated into becoming part of a marketing plan aimed at electing the Slovak Berlusconi as Czech President. That's a really bizar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u64	Your performance brought up a point of fact. I'd like to see Mrs. Peštová's counter. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u65	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. That's how it started, so you had to finish it. [[Let's hear it from the YES benches.]] I don't understand why this Babiš is still in your stomach. You can't imagine that day without him? He's duly excused. I don't see a colleague talking, I'm sorry, I can see him, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. He's duly excused. If he was here, you'd be talking about campaigning again. If he's not here, it bothers you again, at least put a picture of him here. You're not normal! This isn't normal anymore! [[Let's hear it from the YES benches.]] We're not enough for you? There's 72 of us or 71 of us without him. So we're good enough for you as opposition? Isn't it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u66	Thank you for keeping time. And another one, with a factual remark, is signed by Mr králíček. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u67	Thank you. I won't talk long. I'd just like to talk to the honourable Members and to my colleagues at STAN about someone being personal, that someone is offending someone, that this debate is unconstructive, so just remember who started it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u68	Thank you. And another, with a factual remark, is Mr Vondráček. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u69	Thank you for the floor. I listened to it from the office, and I did not hear the end of what Mrs Peštová mentions, so I only have you nice, my colleague, through Madam President. [[Laughs in the hall.]] All I heard was the call for a better political culture. Of course, that's what I'm joining. But in a friendly way, I remember something here. Here was Miroslav Kalousek, pointing his fingers at us and saying that we were Nazis and Andrej Babiš is a führer. So let's work on the culture. But I really remember things... And we can talk about it for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u70	Thank you. Another, with a factual point, is Mrs Válková. Madam, your two minutes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u71	Thank you. So I think at an informal meeting before Christmas, where we met with Members across the political spectrum, we agreed that we usually speak in such a way as not to offend each other. I've seen it again today. Otherwise, I also liked the beginning very much that you have confidence in the mandate and immune committee, Mr. MP, through the Vice-President. Contact us, we'll be happy to judge if you're so offended. And I was particularly surprised by that statement from you, too. So I don't think we're gonna discuss that on the mandate and immune committee, because I don't suppose there's gonna be a need for that on our part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u72	Thank you, and Mr Lang is reporting from his point of view. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u73	Thank you. I would be here for a colleague who has also very nicely begun. I thought we had a new one here, better, as they say, political culture. Please, speaking of Mr. Andrej Babiš, he must have had the bad luck that he was born in Bratislava for Czechoslovakia. This means that he has Slovak nationality, but in 1993, when Czechoslovakia split up and people could choose, both Slovák of Czech citizenship and Čech of Slovak citizenship, so he decided to become a citizen of the Czech Republic. Please, just keep some of these de-honest things, that there's some kind of Slovák, Slovak Berlusconi! The harmony of those two sentences is total bullshit! He's no Slovák, he's a Czech citizen who has the right to run in the presidential election, even if you don't like it. I probably don't know what you're going to say in 14 days if Mr. Babiš succeeded in the second round and became President of the Czech Republic. And Berlusconi is Italian! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u74	Thank you and we are back in the general debate in which Mr Rataj is signed up. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u75	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, too, to address the Government of Petr Fiala at the Chamber of Deputies today, which has been in operation for one year at a very moving time. I also want to respond with this speech to the citizens who have been sending me e-mails in recent days asking me to maintain my honour in voting on trust with the Government of Petr Fiala, to vote in the interests of the citizens of the Czech Republic and to keep the promise I made to the citizens. I can not only assure these writers that I will vote in accordance with my conscience and my parliamentary pledge, and I will also justify why. The opposition movement YES 2011 submitted on Friday 13 January a proposal to hold an extraordinary meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, symbolically on the day of the first anniversary of the announcement of confidence to the government by members of the government coalition. Without trying to win the Party of Direct Democracy, Tomio Okamura, the government will face a second distrust speech in a relatively short period of time. I consider the reasons for such a move presented by YES leaders in recent days to the media to be entirely representative. As always, the arguments put forward are deliberately distorted and characterised by a considerable degree of bias, but above all, they lack proper self-esteem. The only real reason for holding an extraordinary meeting of the Chamber of Deputies before the second round of the presidential elections is the attempt to unleash a storm in a glass of water at a time when the founder and current chairman of the ANO movement Andrej Babiš is running for president of the Czech Republic and is losing his opponent. Making presidential elections a referendum on a government that would arouse protest voters, and deter the media from participating in elections of political opponents, that is the only possible way to gain at least a little hope of agrofertization of the country's highest political function. But let us go to where this marketing attempt to bring down the government at a time where stability of the Czech Republic is a fragile piece of stability throughout the European Union, as a result, is heading. The opposition movement YES seeks to create a negative image of the government's work by Petr Fiala - let us remember the slogan used here: wrong, little, late - to use it to strengthen its own electoral preferences and to prepare strategically for further parliamentary elections. There are a number of options for future developments on the political scene, but the long-standing coalition non-potential ANO movement at national level suggests that any attempt to form a government after a victory in the next parliamentary elections, based on current electoral preferences, would have a significantly greater chance of success with the support of the President of the Republic in the case of a minority government. Also because open cooperation with the SPD is not acceptable for a significant part of the electorate of the ANO movement. To sum up, it is quite essential for the future of the ANO movement that its President should become the next Czech President. Otherwise, there could be a decline and surely there would also be a regrouping or splitting of the whole ANO movement, which still stands and falls with the person of its chairman. But I'd like to finally get to the reality of the last year. If I were to compare this year with the previous two years, when the whole world was plagued by the COVID-19 pandemic, we cannot leave out the energy crisis, double-digit inflation and Russia's military aggression in Ukraine, which has led to a migration wave that has not been there since World War II, i.e. factors that have not been dealt with by any of the previous Czech governments since 1993. Unfortunately, this is an objective fact affecting the economic and social situation of the citizens of our Republic. The government of Petr Fiala has been and is forced to face the challenges that bring this unusually turbulent time. The list of measures taken and the achievements of the government of Petr Fiala was presented here by a number of previous speakers, starting with the Prime Minister of this country. If I sum up briefly, despite the need to face up to the current challenges, changes have been launched in all resorts, which are intended to lead to the implementation of government programme objectives. The government is still learning. No one learned from heaven fell. What is essential, however, does not help itself by restricting either freedom of movement or freedom of expression. I believe that when the situation stabilizes, the war in Ukraine will end, our country will reap the first fruits of work to increase our country's energy independence on Russian raw materials; After we control inflation, the results of Petr Fiala's government's work will be a positive surprise to many critics today who have been misled or misled by the rhetoric of its opponents. There is still much work to be done in front of Petr Fiala's government, and of course, we Coalition MEPs from the STAN movement know all about it. As mayors of towns and villages, we are not used to making false promises, not fulfilling the program, and not bringing matters into play. We also apply the same approach in Parliament. Although our work in the Chamber of Deputies may not be seen as in the communal, I think we can rightly boast of the achievements that we have honestly worked off and which have been mentioned here by our Members and ministers. Of course, we will continue to work steadily, because systemic changes cannot be implemented in a few months without the risk of doing more harm than good in the future. Personally, I believe that it is necessary to slim down the state administration and cut red tape, reduce mandatory spending, and finally prepare a ten-year promised reform of the pension system. It is necessary to consider tax exemptions and to introduce progressive taxation of dependent activities, to return the reformed tax on the purchase or sale of real estate. It has been painfully shown that energy is key commodities, which is why it is necessary, among other things, to transform CEZ's joint-stock company into a state enterprise. In the field of social policy, it is necessary that material assistance to people in social distress is not provided across borders, but directly according to the real economic needs of families and individuals, i.e. more effectively. I believe that, as part of the progressive digitization of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs agendas and its subordinate organisational units, the state will continue to move forward by a mile and in the near future we will finish the work on this department for several parliamentary periods. Although I am assessing the government's efforts to distance itself, according to my best knowledge and conscience, I stress that when assessing its activities, we must not forget the limitations caused by objective facts and, on the one hand, by the legislative process itself. [[21.10 hours]] The government is acting prudently, not rashly, as the opposition has often called for and demanded. After all, you will not run through an unknown space in the semi-shade, but you will go with the utmost caution and discretion. There is no direct consideration: a quick solution equals the best solution, such as on the issue of ceiling fuel prices. As happened in Hungary or Poland, which the opposition set an example for us, we found out a few months later. Let me conclude by thanking all the citizens of this country for their determination to overcome difficult times, for helping people in need, for their patience, trust and support. Following what I have mentioned in my speech and what my previous speakers have mentioned, I note that, in particular, in view of the complicated time of Petr Fiala's government leading our country, it is quite well managed to play its part, and I will therefore vote against the proposal of the opposition movement YES 2011. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u76	Mr. Ambassador, your performance has raised a number of factual points. Mr. králíček was the first to come forward. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u77	Madam President, I must respond. You have just witnessed what STAN's policy looks like. A speech full of hate and insults. Mr Rataj, through the President, you are a poor liar and a spreader of misinformation. [[Applause in the left side of the Chamber.]] You keep talking about deagrofertizing the Czech Republic to redeploy it. And for me: Slovak Berlusconi rather than Czech Kaliňák inside the castle!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u78	Thank you for keeping time. Mrs Peštová is next with a point of fact. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u79	Well, thank you for your word. I can't say it started well this time. He was an asshole in the beginning. So it didn't start well. And that ending made me feel like XIV. KSČ convention. I went back to my old days. All beautiful, all pink and only the others do it differently than we do. So I'm really gonna ask the opposition, or I'm sorry to the ruling coalition, take your contributions, cross out this Babiš guy, he's not here. He's not here. So I understand you got your assignment. The task was clear: the man with the leather bag must not pass. [[Laughter and applause in the left side of the Chamber.]] But he's not here. He's not here. So it's pointless to take it into your mouth. So if you have something, come sew it into us, but for nothing - here you have a picture, take a picture and really, forget about Babiš. [[points to Babiš's portraits in front of the speaker's counter]] Forget about Babiš today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u80	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mrs Malá. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u81	Good evening. Mr. Colleague, you've got the whole thing mixed up. [[Laughs in the left side of the courtroom.]] They didn't write you citizens in that e-mail to vote for trust. They said that you brought this country a cugrunt, that it was a disaster, what you're doing. I get those e-mails, too, and I see you in those recipients. So please don't get messed up tomorrow. Against trust.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u82	Thank you. The next enrollment is Mr. Kolovratník. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u83	Thank you for the floor. Well, folks, I wouldn't be mad at Mr. Rataj. He's been on the mic for the fourth time in a year. He's still a rookie, and I understand that those texts that the STANs wrote are hard to read almost the first time. We have an understanding. [[Laughs in the left side of the courtroom.]] But, Congressman, the next time you come up here on the microphone, you can see that Ondra Lochman had a little bit more experience, that he's been here a few times, try to cross those lines out a little bit and adjust. When you talk about the fragile feathers of European democracy and so on, when you talk about us playing this election opposition campaign, first listen to what we've been telling you, what Alena Schillerová gave you here in a great speech at the beginning of today. The arguments we want to tell you, what we're asking you to do and what we want to discuss with you. Then, Mr. Ambassador, maybe even with the fifth or sixth performance after a year here in the House, you'll sound a little more trustworthy. Unfortunately, you didn't do it right now. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u84	Thank you, and the next one is Mrs Pastuchová. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u85	Thank you, Madam President. Well, I'm just glad I'm going with the facts right now because I can respond to two shows. Late for Mr. Bělor, I suspect that's his name, he's not here yet, I've never seen him here at the counter. But I'm out of one thing. So a citizen who was born in Slovakia and now has Czech nationality has absolutely no chance in this republic to apply to be president or any other position. So they're different to you. So my mother, who was born in Slovakia, also has Czech citizenship. And you just took them out. You took them out because they're Slovák. Another thing about my colleague, Rataj, whom I respect as colleagues in the Social Committee. But, you know, look at the list. I'm listening carefully to today's meeting, really, to the government's performance, even though I'm not sitting here, I'm going for a walk. And now we're going to listen to about 17 members of the government coalition, as amazing as our government is, she's done everything, and in a country like this, we have to live perfectly with this government. But, folks, she's not here anymore, Madam Secretary, I'm sorry, I would love to live in such a republic. But don't talk about your fantasies next time about how to live here, but talk about the Czech Republic directly. And now she doesn't live like this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u86	Thank you for keeping time. The other is registered with the factual remark of President Schillerová. Madam President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u87	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Mr is a political scientist, apparently -- through the Vice-President, I think Mr Rataj, I see you for the first time -- because the master already knows what will happen after the election, what will be the government here, with what support, he knows what the ANO movement is threatening to split up if Andrej Babiš happens to leave for the Castle. [[Laughter in the left side of the hall]] Well, Mr Rataj, through Madam Vice-President, I think as a representative of the party that gave this country the Dosimeter and the Slepičák Man, mostly take care of the future of the STAN movement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u88	Thank you for keeping time. And another, with a factual remark, is Mr Feranec. Ambassador, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u89	Thank you, Madam President. There are no members of the government. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Rataj's criticism has been expressed here. I must say, I was very amused by his speech. I really laughed quite frankly, because it seemed like a stand-up attempt to mess with me, like someone wants to parody those speeches of that XIV. Downhill. The diction, the words. I wrote down some: we reap the fruits of labor, some have been misled and seduced. [[stormy laughter in the left side of the hall]] [[applause in the left side of the hall]] It really reminded me just if it was gonna be an attempt at stand-up performances, a parody really on the conclusions of XIV. The convention, that's how it went down perfectly. I really liked it. And, of course, the question: who are you going to benefit? [[Laughter explosion and applause in the left side of the hall.]] We saw that in a movie. No, I thank my colleague. I understand it's nine o'clock, we're tired. It really amused me very much and refreshed our debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u90	Thank you for keeping the time and another is signed by Mr Brabec with a point of fact. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u91	Thank you for the floor. Well, you see, colleagues from the opposition and from the coalition, what you've lost, you've only just acknowledged those factual remarks to us. [[Laughs in the hall.]] The fun could have been here a lot sooner, and you didn't have to leave for it. I don't think anyone would leave a debate this much fun. I was watching because I didn't know my colleague Ratai Rataj, but I found out that he has a regional office on Chocholuškova Street. [[Fun.]] I'm sorry, but it just gave me an answer. But I was also surprised by the dictum, I also thought I'd find the words in some anals, the misconceptions, and how to start the changes in the individual resorts. But of course, I think that colleagues should actually be grateful, even the newcomers, for the debate, because they're gonna get their asses kicked in here. It's something else to be the rapporteur of some law, something else to be exposed to pressure right here. So I also have to say that I was surprised by the way you told us, the YES movement, fatherly, maybe caring about what we should be careful about so that it doesn't come back to us in any way. Me, too, every time I hear stan, I also remember Dosimeters and encrypted phones. So I think that everyone in there should be dealing with the problems at home that they have, really. I think we'll probably manage without it. But I'll follow up on what my colleague Feranec said. It was refreshing in this relatively advanced time. Thank you for that. And I think and hope that as time increases, we'll hear some more favorites. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u92	I also thank you for keeping the time and the next is Mr Lochman. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u93	Good evening, citizens. I suggest you take a look at these colleagues. It reminds me of elementary school, when the herd starts laughing at someone, making fun of them, and wondering how good we are, how bad he is, let's insult him, let's take a little action and let's laugh at him because we think we're better. It's called bullying! But another person who told you right here that he thankes people for being patient at this difficult time and able to endure it. And instead of being in this House - I'm only here for a year, I see people here who are from different sides and are here for a long time, now for YES 2011 - so this House is worth a day of 3.5 million. [[He speaks very loudly.]] You guys, instead of talking about what people need, about how you couldn't secure, like I said, enough energy earlier to have some energy security, you're talking about someone else's account, and you're making it up, you're insulting him. You feel like the ones who are some people's evaluators here. Dear dear friends, let's go back to where this House belongs. Let's talk about things that are important to the citizens of this country, and not that you will use this time and this land only to talk about it here at some foreign account. And to a person who, in his conscience, decides what he's gonna do with everything, if that government really has his trust, that's what he's considering, he's gonna thank people. What about you? You guys are playing games here instead of working as MPs, that is, working for the people we represent here!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u94	Thank you for keeping time. Another point of fact is made by Mr Kasal. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u95	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. I would like to turn to the two previous speakers, both Mr Lochman and Mr Rataj. Thank you for recording me, Mr. Ambassador. I'd like to tell you about the fruits of your work and what you said about being ridiculous and doing something here. So explain to me the fruits of your work that after 30 years - I've worked in health care for 30 years - in 30 years I haven't experienced what I've been experiencing in the last year, when we don't have medicine to treat. And not just outpatiently. I'm considering what I'm gonna give the kids in the department so I can continue outpatient care. It's not funny at all. Something else is big cities, and something else is smaller cities. Because what's arrived in Prague, we've had it for two months. Not only are there no antibiotics in general, but there are no eye drops. If you want, Mr. Ambassador, you can look it up at SÚKL, that's where it is, and you can tell people. Those people have it that way, and they're in it every day. So that's your success that neither of you mentioned.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u96	Thank you for keeping time. Another point of fact is made by Mr Lang. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u97	Thank you, Madam President. I originally wanted to talk to something else because I felt a little sick when my colleagues from the right of STAN said that they were doing it well and that they wanted to continue the work. Oh, my God. But what Mr. Lochman did here. Please, colleague, don't yell at us here, we're not little children. If you're in your club, in your STAN, yelling at each other like that, please don't bring it in here, on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, if you want to castle here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u98	Please address yourself through me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u99	Through Madam President. I understand that you have great ambitions today, that you have the hundred-eighty, that you have the Home Secretary, that you have encrypted phones somewhere between the socks that ring Mr. Gazdík, that you have slowly died over the cross and after the sword. Oh, please, don't give us a badge. I was completely shocked by your statement that the opposition MP's statement was bullying. When an opposition MP here gives his opinion, is it bullying you? You can't do it? If you don't make it, you're gonna have to lay down your mandate, go be mayor or where you came from, and you don't have to be in the House. Nobody's keeping you here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u100	Thank you for keeping time. Another point of fact is made by Mr Letocha. Ambassador, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u101	Good evening, Madam President, honourable Members of the Government, honourable colleagues. Here you can see that you were actually looking forward to the part where the MPs for the STAN movement come to protect or defend the tasks of the government that they have managed. At least that's what we think. It is completely legitimate that the opposition has a different view of this. But it is true that I heard Mr Rataj's speech in my office, where I was also preparing for a speech that might be coming soon, and that I was not surprised what happened here afterwards. You've been really excited about this debate. But frankly, making fun of the street where the MP has an office - and I confess, I have an office there too. So we're gonna patronize the people who live there, that it means something, that they're on Chocholušková Street? Will the Czech House really go down to this? I know the atmosphere that was here helped. But I do believe that if you look back at the footage of what happened here a second ago, you might not even be smiling completely. But I have some good news for you. There's still a lot of us logged in. So you'll be able to use your content and energy in factual notes and certainly in your own speeches, because there's still quite a lot of us prepared. But please, let us preserve the dignity of the Czech House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u102	Thank you for keeping time. Another point of fact is made by Mr Wenzl. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u103	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I to Mr Rataj, through you. I don't want to offend in any way, not at all. But I was intrigued by that passage in his speech where he talks about how the government is actually going to, until -- then it's going to be "pink," then it's going to be "okay." To Mr Lochman, again through you. Mr Letocha, through you, has also mentioned this now when we look at the order of entries. Yes, this extraordinary meeting was convened at the request of the 2011 Movement Club and, except for the priority rights until this time, no one came forward. That would be where we want to ask the governments, the Prime Minister and the ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u104	I also thank you for keeping time. Next up, Mr. králíček's Member is here. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u105	So according to the STAN movement, Mr Letocha and Mr Lochman, you can insult us. Perhaps Mr Letocha, through Madam President, could also have heard Mr Bělor's speech. It was a bunch of insults and the demotion of the ANO movement. [[He speaks very strongly.]] But that's okay with you. But if we allow ourselves to say something against your Members, you are reassuring us immediately, and let us get back to constructive matters. And when Mr. Lochman here says that today costs 3.5 million, or 3.9, you're stalling him. You didn't let us talk, you guys are doing whatever you want! You're a modern-day totalitarian!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u106	Thank you. Another with a point of fact is Mrs Peštová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u107	Thank you for the floor. I won't be so passionate. I would also like to respond to Mr Lochman. I respect you very much, too, but what you said here is a great lie. That we would bully you... If you said it backwards that you were bullying us, I would understand. If you take it, we're loading points here - they're not loaded. We're trying to call an emergency meeting - you won't approve of the program. Today we're gonna call a meeting, the ANO movement is gonna call a meeting where it wants you or the government wants to express distrust - and in the finals, we're almost gonna have to beg you to open a debate, because you put all your ministers there with priority rights, and if you don't open the debate, we're gonna be sitting here in the morning or, respectively, in 12 hours, listening to those hymns. So that's the whole truth. So it's not about us bullying you, but you bullying us. It's a shame the Prime Minister isn't here. I'd like to ask him, he's a political scientist, tell me how to defend the opposition and how to exercise his constitutional right. She has the right to make laws - there wasn't a single one. You take everything, even though the laws are read in the system under some number, yours will only come there after, they still take your laws, ours stay there, the opposition window was no longer there, I don't even remember, the interpelation last year - of the eighteen there were ten. It's bullying from you, it's not bullying from us. And then you can't blame us for being a little more prude. But every action causes a reaction. There's nothing else going on here. I understand you're trying to moralize us here, but you should clean up your own doorstep first.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u108	Thank you for keeping time. Another point of fact is made by Mrs Malá. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u109	I'm really tired of coming here, but I just have to. I would go back to the very beginning when this debate opened up here. She spoke Bára Urbanová, who spoke completely constructively, to the point, fine. I think that even the factual remarks that then responded to her were quite decent, appropriate. I think it's classy. Try to think about who started this debate and rhetoric. You're unbelievable demagogues. If you get your own medicine that you've ordered for us here, you can scream, but if we don't, for God's sakes, you'll jump out here. Mr Letocha, through Madam President, almost had a heart attack here, but that you are talking about Berlusconi and such things, are we to bear? Like, really try to think about it. I'll talk about it in my post, which I'll have here later, but I've already discussed it with some of your colleagues. In the last parliamentary term, we were in the coalition, and we approved your proposals, your negotiating points. Last week, what happened here was just a disaster. We're going to propose a point of negotiation about the fact that drugs are simply not available to children, and you're going to normally crack it up, sorry about the word, you're just gonna smack it just because the opposition suggested it. Anyway, what do you expect from us? That we're gonna treat you guys with gloves here? It's just a disaster. And those people see it, and they elect us just as much as you do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u110	Thank you for keeping time. Another point of fact is registered by Mrs Ožanová. Madam, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u111	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Secretary. Maybe it'll fit in. I wanted to respond to my colleague Lochman, through you, Madam Vice-President. This is where we talked about how much it costs one day in the House. You know, I also remember during this day that our colleague Vildumetzová Mračková asked for a debate to be opened earlier, so that priority rights would not be the only one. Do you remember laughing at her? That it wasn't, that she was stupid, that she didn't remember, that when she was Vice-President, that she didn't know the Rules of Procedure. Suddenly, it was possible to open the debate. Now I'm sorry - I don't see Patrik Nacher. Two feet of Patrik Nacher? Yes, it costs a lot. But please, if this is a meeting about government trust, it should speak both coalitions and opposition. Thank you for graciously allowing us to speak at least after 7:00. But I think, given the proposal made by our colleague, it was still very incorrect. We could have responded immediately. I write my remarks, sit here, to ministers, such as the Minister of Transport, Foreign Affairs, so that I can respond to their performances. I'm writing it down. That way, I could have asked them right away about the things they were saying. Excuse me, but you have, in your own way, limited the democratic debate that should be in this House. I wanted to ask the ministers material questions immediately. I have some real questions there, but it's been prevented. And then you're going to say, how much does one day cost if you do your own exhibition first?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u112	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Mašek. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u113	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the argument that we have been made here by Mr Lochman, through Madam President, that it costs 3.5 million a day, and it has been reproached that we actually want to express our distrust of the government, but that, Mr Lochman through Madam President, is the result of the fact that you do not really allow us to speak in this House. You won't allow us to place points. You said we should devote that time to the problems of the citizens of this republic. That's about what you said. But that's what we've been fighting for all along. I find it Pharisee from you, such a reason to present here at all. And I leave aside that you yelled at us here. There were comments earlier that Mr Okamura mentioned here the Goebbels methods that someone here mentioned at the exaggeration of the negotiations such a positive, all-embracing, that we are like XIV. KSČ convention, I remember the other one. But I would have liked you, and so maybe it's my idea that it was such a Stalinist, offensive act: we're just gonna kick your ass, and you're here to really, as Chairman TOP 09 said, put your feet in. But what I'd like to say is that you, representatives of STAN, should be the one to deal with your problems, not lecture us all here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u114	Thank you for keeping time. Another one, with fact, is registered by Mrs Válková. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u115	Thank you. Dear colleagues, there are not only negative examples. There are people among you who work and work, and people whom we certainly not only appreciate, but we can work with them. I was, as some of you may have noted, in the debate of Václav Moravka's questions on Sunday with Minister of Justice Blažek, through you, Madam Vice-President, although I would not have to say it, unfortunately he is not here, and although we have a number of different opinions, we certainly did not argue there, it was dignified, about 450,000 people looked at it, we had a positive response. And I'm happy to help him with the new Code of Criminal Procedure when he sends him to the House, because I don't think it matters that he's gonna do the stunt for the ODS, but what matters is that we need the new Code of Criminal Procedure, a lot of people need it. And I think that's why we're here. [[21.40 hours]] So my first point is that you should look for examples there. And after all, we're looking for them there, the cooperation is based on a very constructive basis. And so if, of course, an expression like bullying goes into space, I wonder if you meant that as in the criminal sense of the word. In the end, I turned it down, I don't think so. So I recommend reading very good publications from our famous psychotherapist Dr. Michal Kolář about bullying, definition of bullying, how to treat bullying, various forms of bullying, community to prevent bullying. So these are certainly the publications that some of you should study. And they're interesting, readable and understandable. They're not scientific works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u116	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Brabec. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u117	Thank you for the floor. Well, I think those of you who've known me for a long time know that I'm basically kind, cheerful, and if I'm not attacked by something, I don't usually attack. [[Fun in the hall.]] And that is why I am quite surprised by the reaction of Mr Lochman, by your means, Madam President. Because it's perfectly normal that if you're serving medicine, and you're serving it, and I don't think it's bad, you're coalitions, we're opposition, I've had the opposite position here, but you have to bear it, too, that you have to eat it sometimes. I have seen Mr Kalousek here, I have seen today's minister, who is not here today, Mr Finance Minister, then head of ODS Members' Club, Mr Stanjura, and other very good attackers, when, of course, we as ministers had to answer, and sometimes it was very unpleasant things. And I have to tell you, it's just part of the work of politics. That means, I'm more shocked that you're taking it - I don't think anyone said anything dirty here, yes, I'm sorry to all the residents of Chocholuškova Street, but I think for the Čech, when someone says Chocholoušek, he always remembers Professor Chocholoušek from Jáchyme movie throw him in the machine, it's no longer an insult. But please read again the screen recordings of these speeches by fellow Members and our response. I think it's really just action and reaction. That's why I'm shocked that you're taking this as an insult and you're just saying to the citizens here - look at them like we're kind, kind, and they're just mean to us, and we don't deserve that. Let's see what's going on. We're just in a different position, but we still have respect for each other. And I'm sure we do. And just in conclusion, Mr Letoch, through Madam President. We weren't waiting to make comments, comments about you, but about the government. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] But unfortunately, we didn't get that chance, which is why you're getting it for them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u118	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Kolovratník. That's a mistake, okay, thank you. Another one with the facts, Mr Feranec. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u119	Thank you. Madam President, gentlemen of the government, ladies and gentlemen, when I said that Mr Rataj's first performance entertained me a little, I must say that the performance - what Mr Lochman said - gave me a chill. I really felt chilly about it. How dare a Member do that? How does he imagine that? The appearance of the MPs is bullying! How come we called - almost, almost - that we even called a meeting on government trust. We're spending the bread of the workers here! I'm really chilly about it. And it's not funny at all, and it makes me sad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u120	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Vlček. Ambassador, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u121	Madam President, thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, Minister, colleagues, colleagues, I would also like to return the debate a bit to the ground. I promise Vlček won't attack Brabec so we can somehow keep this debate in some level of dignity. I think I can assure you all of you for my colleagues, and thus defend them that we all respect this plenary and plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. We are all convinced by the Democrats to realise that, say, this top plenary has its respect and must, in some way, maintain it. That means let's get this debate back. I don't think we can blame ourselves here for the fact that the various ministers were performing here. We fully understand the right of the ANO movement to convene this meeting. At the same time, you have to respect the right of ministers to defend their work here, and I think it was very important that they defend the work here. They respected the Rules of Procedure. I don't think we can blame that either. That means let's put the debate back. It's perfectly natural that we react to each other. So we can't blame ourselves for the fact that this debate isn't physically going on here. She's running around here, and it's happening at quarter to ten, so it's happening at quarter to ten. It doesn't matter. That's what we're here for. We're being paid to do this. We can blame ourselves here for whether it costs money or not. It's just a democracy tax itself. And we're all ready for that. We canceled our programmes for the next few days, for example, we canceled the meeting of the Environment Committee, for which we were ready tomorrow, today we canceled some committee. But that's just how it is, so we respect it. We're here ready to spend the next few days on this debate as such. That means let's go back to the ground and continue this debate. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u122	Thank you for keeping the time and another one with a factual remark is signed in by Mrs Ožanová. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u123	Thank you. Madam President, I will follow up on the immediate speaker. The ministers didn't defend anything! You did not let us ask questions by not opening the debate. We couldn't ask about some of the things they said in their speeches. When I ask you in 24 hours tomorrow, no one will remember. Please, do you call this defending a job by obstructing the opposition's questions? Are you serious? This is a democracy? From your point of view, yes, from my point of view, no! There's one more thing I'd like to remind you of. Our club has received proposals to amend the Rules of Procedure of this House. Gentlemen, I really do not know whether I am in the House, which desires democracy, regardless of who is in its leadership, but I think almost not, because the proposals that wanted to limit the performances and the like, wanted to limit the interpelation in their own way. Yes, I know how that would turn out. I can see that today: sit down, don't say anything, you have no right at all. Please don't blame us for asking questions. Don't say, go back and be above it. Please, I'm just not above things. I wanted to ask questions and I couldn't. And don't tell me it's the right thing to do! No, it's not! The debate in Parliament is an action - a response. This Newtonův law has already been quoted, let's go back to physics. Yes, action - reaction. Let us ask questions. We would not have had to be here for so long, and we would have spared the money that Mr Lochman spoke of through you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u124	Thank you for keeping time. Another, with a factual point, is Mrs Pastuchová. Madam, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u125	Thank you, Madam President. I will, by your means, for Mr Vlček. We didn't even say the ministers were performing here, but look, they've been performing all day, then it wasn't on TV anymore, so you gave us your word at 7:00, but look, isn't it weird that the first 16 Members are from the government coalition? And we, when we were... I looked at the log-in, I don't know, the day before yesterday at home, and you were 16 or 17. So our first opponent will get to the counter as the 17th, and all these 16 Members before us will tell us exactly the same thing, what we've been listening here from nine to seven to evening from every minister. [[21.50 hours]] So he's gonna praise, he's gonna praise, he's gonna praise, he's gonna praise, he's gonna praise, he's gonna praise, he's And our 17th MP to the 53rd, maybe one of you is still going to dig in, we're going to talk in an empty hall, into an empty ministry, we can't ask anybody because they're probably asleep somewhere. [[points to government benches]] So you don't find it strange that on this - yes, Minister, you have now come - that on this - you are already taking turns so nicely that someone is always sitting there, and that there are sixteen or seventeen Members? I checked in two days ago, and I'm the twenty-first. I don't mind, I'll talk at midnight, 4:00 in the morning, I don't care. But don't you find it strange that ministers speak and then 17 government MPs?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u126	Thank you. Mr Kobza is reporting from the point of view. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u127	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Secretary, Minister, dear colleagues, I would like to thank my colleague Lochman here, through Madam Vice-President, because his speech, which I heard, is 67 years old, and I remember it a lot, so he returned me to my youth in high school because I heard the same speeches in 1972, 1973 for the hardest normalization in our country. So thank you for the breath of my youth in high school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u128	Well, thank you. And it raised other factual points. With a factual point, Mr Vlček is registered. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u129	Thank you for the floor, Madam President, and thank you for the floor, by your means, to my colleague Pastuchová. And I don't understand you. These people take it very honestly, my colleagues. The fact that they logged in on time is -- they logged in on time, you could have logged in sooner than they did. They volunteered to justify their decision as to why they wanted to give confidence to Petr Fiala's government. And that's their right. Just as it's your right, they have the same rights, we all have the same rights and obligations in this room. We can't blame them for being here before. They take their job very seriously, I thank them for it, I appreciate it. And that's just the way it is. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u130	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Zuna. Ambassador, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u131	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I want to respond to several outputs. First of all, I would like to comment, by your means, on the comments or the exit of Mrs Peštová and Mrs Malá, when it was said that we did not allow any law at all for discussion here in the Chamber of Deputies from the opposition proposal. And there was a number zero, absolutely nothing. I just, if I remember correctly, last week we discussed in the second reading the proposal of Members Nacher, Králíček, Mrs Válková and others, a bill dealing with the Civil Procedure Code, which will also be discussed in the third reading. Furthermore, I would also like to respond to Mrs Ožanová, by means of you, who mentioned that we have limited the right to speak today, the right to respond to the outputs that have been here before, to the outputs of ministers. We didn't limit anything. After all, we are acting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. And this is an absolutely identical situation where the opposition is proposing, for example, changes to the agenda of a meeting of amendments or the inclusion of some points and opposition Members with priority rights, whether it is Mr Okamura, who may sometimes perform here for six hours, or Mr Babiš, who performs for three hours, and we, as ordinary Members, cannot respond to that either. And the situation is exactly the same, the exact same, we didn't limit anything. We shall act in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u132	Thank you for keeping time. Another, with a factual point, is Mrs Pastuchová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u133	Only briefly, through yours. Mr Wolf, but I didn't say I didn't appreciate the work of your fellow Members from the coalition. I said, does anyone find it strange that the first 16 or 17 Members are on the list first, that all our Members, the seventy-two of us, would not have applied? That's what I'm here for, and I've been here long enough for 17 first-time MPs after the government - I just said it's weird. I didn't accuse anyone of not preparing. We were getting ready, too, and we'll finish talking tomorrow, the day after tomorrow. It's okay. We're happy to be here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u134	Thank you. Another point of fact was made by Mr Flek. Ambassador, your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u135	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a brief statement. [[Laughter and applause in the hall. There's only one minister sitting in the government bench.]] Yeah, I'm a rookie too, so maybe that's why the mistake you made here, as you mentioned, there's more of us here. But ANO colleagues know that I'm trying to work together at that level really professionally, let it be health, let it be a defense, let it be a business environment. They are, there were moments when I tried to support the vote. Over there - I'm just looking at the doctor, through you, Mašek, where we were dealing with early medical pensions for the paramedics. The cooperation is, I really think, broad-spectrum. And just what I wanted to say, even though I'm a rookie, and it's been said here several times that you don't have a chance to ask ministers. Even though I'm the newbie, I really don't spare our ministers. When I need something, I pick them up, and I really appeal to certain things that I either don't like, or if there are things that I don't understand and I need to talk to them, they're really sitting here, sitting here every meeting of the House, and there's no problem talking to them or talking to them about the issue that's needed. It never happened to me that any minister would reject me, let it be the Minister of Education, let it be the Minister of Defence, let it be the Minister of Industry and Trade, it really has always been a problem-free negotiation. So I really don't understand, I don't see why you can say that you don't have a chance to talk to them, that you don't have a chance to ask. Like when we all have that opportunity, I'm amazed that the opposition doesn't have that option. As for that, I would like to respond briefly to the lady - I'm sorry, thank you. [[Time, Mr. Ambassador.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u136	Thank you. Another, with a factual point, is Mrs Ožanová. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u137	děkovat you, Madam Vice-President. Colleagues, I don't know if you're really listening. I wanted to ask you about the House plenary. Not backstage. I wanted to ask you what they said today and what I don't agree with. Another thing, Mr Zuna - I did not say that it was contrary to the Rules of Procedure, but that there was such a small proposal by Mrs Vildumetzová Mračková to open the debate earlier. And you didn't. Sometimes you have to listen to what the opposition says. So that's what it was about. Please, all you had to do was be this correct. I don't remember exactly what happened last term. We were in the coalition. And didn't we by chance allow the zipper of the opposition to speak one coalition, one opposition? That's what the coalition did back then, where it was YES, so that everyone would get the chance. It'd be good to ask your old-timers, too, that's what it was. And I believe that this has really contributed to correctness as well as to speeding up negotiations. And if you weren't here, I'd like your colleagues' speeches. I wish I could take a look at the watch, who wants to have lunch, can go, you have, like, two hours. That's what one of the speakers said, and he started reading. So please, nothing special is happening. It's just that you see one thing and you forget that there's some history, and there's the history of your colleagues. And I was really amused when you spoke to the government here, to this poor minister, who was left here, twisting the service. Minister, I can address you directly, I wish you all the best of luck and patience.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u138	Thank you for keeping time. Another point of fact is made by Mr Volný. And I'm saying goodbye to you today and handing over the meeting proceedings. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u139	Colleagues, colleagues, hello, Madam President. It's an honor to be driven. And you, colleagues, too. I have two notes. Here's to colleague Vlček through Madam President. You guys should make a deal. You're still whispering, but when one of you, Mr. Vlček, says here that it's actually handy that 17 of your MPs have checked in and that there were 15 of your ministers in front of us in the priority rights, well, he's right. I can't talk it out, and that's just the way it is. There was 17 talking... or eight hours, and we didn't get anywhere. But how can your MP say "it costs $3.5 million for a while before, and thanks to you, he's gonna throw himself out the window"? It can't be done like this. And the second thing, I wonder if Vice-President Bartošek will apologize to my colleague Mrs Vildumetzová tomorrow for saying he doesn't know the Rules of Procedure, even though she was Vice-President. She knew well because he could have allowed this debate before. I didn't, it's okay. He's entitled to it, too. But the fact that he insulted her and said that he didn't know the law to allow it in five hours is pretty uncomfortable, and he should apologize for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u140	With a factual point, Mr Flek is now signed in and Mr Cogan will be prepared. He's stahovat, yes. Mr. Flek is pulling back. Mr. Cogan. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u141	I'm reacting briefly. Here it was said, and the last time we spoke of distrust, there was actually the zipper method, but it should be said that everyone understands who the court is that this meeting is merely pure abuse of the Chamber of Deputies before the second round. And if it was said that someone may have applied earlier, it was a reaction to that, you've already reported ahead as you call this meeting. You've been thinking about how to help your candidate. And the fact that you reported it and then filed it, and then actually colleagues from us to the club volunteered because they said yes, we're just going to say yes. You guys called it in on Friday, and the minute the system was there, they just logged in. That's all there is to it. And here's where they're gonna blame it for being weird? They just volunteered, said they'd express themselves. You guys are building up from last year, so maybe three-quarters of the time you had for the opposition. And now you're so excited about it, it's like 16 in a row. To me, it doesn't seem awful that we had 16 applications from our people who just volunteered for the debate. That's all. Spontaneous. So?
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u142	Another point of fact is made by Mr Lang, Mr Babka will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u143	Thank you, Madam President. Well, I've been hearing here about the fourth or fifth time from the right side of the spectrum that this extraordinary meeting has been convened to support Mr Babiš in the second round of the presidential election. We haven't even talked about this here. On our side, I'll bet 100% on the log, there's not a word about it. You keep talking about it, over and over again, trying to get ready, now it's a nice word, the story that we made up. We hit it. You've heard it a thousand times here. We talked about it at our club. We have the strength to call it in. That it worked out right now, that's because you gave us no other way to promote your suggestions on how to say something here at the House plenary because all the meetings we've been calling have been busy. And that it came out right now for the second round of the presidential election, that's true, but we never said that. And Mr. Babiš isn't even here, he's duly excused because if he were here, there won't be any photos, but there'll be three times as many of you, and you'll be here one after another, Babiš, Babiš, Babiš, Babiš. We're not Mr. Babiš's product. We are a self-righteous movement, self-righteous Members, and we are just as elected as you are. And that kind of talk, so prove it. Prove to me, come here on the counter and prove to me that we called this on purpose to support Mr. Babiš in the second round. I just hope that citizens see this and that they actually have an idea of who and how he is a Democrat and who and how he is just trying to bend this democracy! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u144	Next, Mrs Pokorná Jermanová, with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u145	Good evening, fellow Members of the President. I want one thing. I applied here about four times, and I checked out of the actual debate four times. But he won't give it to me, and I have to respond to Cogan here. I don't think I'm ready for it. Because this is just Parliament. I also respect that you use the Rules of Procedure as you use it. It's okay, no one broke it, no one broke it. But what bothers me about the debate that's been going on here is that you're upset that you're being insulted or that someone might make fun of you. You even called it bullying. I need to remember what was going on here. What ran elsewhere on other soils. And we already are, the ANO movement is used to your mockery, your bullying. And there is one proverb that has been valid for years and years. As the woods are called, they come out of the woods. So that's it. Let's accept this and let's really discuss the topics that interest us and which we could discuss last week in a proper meeting, where we were reading the points that we wanted to talk about. And if the Prime Minister were to come out here and say yes, I can see that you're interested in these points, let's put one in, let's focus on it, so we didn't have to be here today at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u146	We are going back to the debate. Vice-President Kovářová is now registered with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u147	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Ožanová, through the President, has called on us to remind us of the way we have been doing in recent years. I do not want to remember here how your President Andrej Babiš insulted us, me personally, my colleague and some Members. I'd hate to think about that, and I'm not even gonna quote here. I also remember well the way in which the opposition Members were treated when they presented their proposals for a programme that was mostly not approved. When they presented their amendments, which were mostly rejected. I have to say for myself that, unlike some opposition colleagues, I was quite successful, that some amendments were going through me, but, for example, amendments to the budget, so it was really very rare. On the other hand, I must say that I did not see it as if something really bad was happening to me because I perceived that the coalition had a majority and opposition minority in the House. That the coalition has the right to draft laws, the opposition has the right to explore. But I always say that, and whoever is in the coalition, the coalition, the government must have the right to have its bills approved, because it has some programming statement and it has to comply with the programming statement. And that's just how it works, whether it's in the coalition or not. So I say, working in opposition is very difficult, very difficult. It's about debate and you mustn't be afraid of rejection. I've seen it many times, but I never gave up. And I also think that the things that have gone through, mostly it was without the support of the YES movement, so it was worth it, or even the YES movement then ours when I say it, because it was sometimes supported with colleagues, our amendments or amendments to the laws, but it was very rarely. [[22.10 hours]] So I repeat once again, the coalition must be able to pass its laws, the opposition can obstruct, so it just happens when someone has a majority and when someone has a minority. It is, of course, a discussion. I remember very well, since I am already the memorial of the discussion that went out of the O.R., between then president Mr.Faltýnek and chairman of ODS Zbyněk Stanjura. [[A club?]] I think there was mostly an agreement. Of course there were gunfights. Shootings were quite often funny, so I think they might be sharp, but it should be taken in perspective. This is what I'm saying. It is not easy to be in opposition, but I must say that it is not easy even in the coalition. And by that, I mean the work of a Member. The work of a Member is different when you are in a coalition, working in a different way than when you are in opposition. Everyone's getting used to it for a while, but I think one thing we should have in common is to move this republic out of the crisis. Finally, I would like to comment on why this meeting was convened, and I beg your pardon, but I just don't want to say that it's like a goat in me, but I just have to say it. It's clear that your opposition leader's presidential campaign is in full swing, which I think I understand, and it's basically okay. However, I am sure that it is not okay for Parliament to staff him in this campaign. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u148	With a point of fact, Mr Okleštěk is now registered and Mrs Adámková follows the factual remarks. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u149	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Minister, colleagues, Věruška listened very nicely to me, through Madam President. We have already done something here together, and if she had told you what the outbursts of the opposition were, what colleague Stanjura, colleague Kalousek, and others like them were doing just as opposition work, young colleagues would have wondered if they had seen the confusion of the insults that Mr Kalousek might have made to President Jarka Jermanová in its beginnings. I don't think you'll remember. And look how tolerant we were when this House leadership representation came in, and we didn't make any jokes out of anybody. We weren't making fun of anybody. This meeting has been convened because there is no presidential campaign. It was called because we have tried to draw long-term attention to the problems that we have in the Czech Republic, and we have tried to get those problems in some way at the House's meeting. Unfortunately, you didn't even have the courage to place at least one point. Then you're surprised we called a meeting. We've been consulting on this for a long time at our club, and in the end, this view that we're going to call a meeting has won. What came to your mind first, I guess I'm guessing that we're gonna be doing some PR action here or promoting President Babiš. Babiš is most likely from you, the Coalition MPs. It's what you do most for him. You guys are stretching out, that's a bomb. We should wear you on our hands.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u150	Time, Mr. Ambassador. You're out of time. Mrs Adámková is now registered with a point of fact, followed by Mr Feranec. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u151	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me just a small gloss with an honored colleague, who I really appreciate, Mrs. Kovářová. First, thank you for her tone, which was calm and clear. We have no problem working as opposition MPs. For God's sake, we know very well what this job looks like. We very much appreciate all the fundamental views that are for progress, but there is no way that we can accept personal lashings that are happening repeatedly here, which I think is completely below the level of Members that are happening to us from the coalition parties, especially from younger colleagues. And I just want them to realize one thing, and that's that we have different political opinions here, and that's okay. And if you look at each side, so honestly, we're a little ahead of you there, that needs to be realized, because, of course, that's the situation. So we don't mind a different opinion at all. No way. But please keep the educational interviews about whether or not we can do something. We can, just like my colleague Kovářová said. And it's our job too. We are responsible to our constituents, which, once again, on each side was significantly more than yours, it must be realized, we have the same rights to perform here. We're not doing any personal invectives, which, unfortunately, is becoming your side. He's not a dignified MP. Blame us politically, let's talk about what's different here. That's our job on both sides, but keep your personal attacks. Otherwise, I must say again that President Babiš is not here. He's not even here to tell you he's doing some kind of campaign. He's not campaigning. He's not here, so be so kind as to speak in a matter of fact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u152	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Feranec is now following and Mr Babka will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u153	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I, too, will follow up on what my colleague Kovářová said, why this meeting was convened. Because there is something like a constitution that assumes the possibility of expressing distrust to the government, because there are rules of procedure. That's the first thing. Second thing. We've been here 12 hours today. You may have noticed Mr. Babiš isn't here. I understand you were preparing your speeches, and the signs were here, welcome. It's not here anymore. You had it ready, he threw a pitchfork in it that he didn't come. But after 12 hours, you might have noticed. And as I say, the Rules of Procedure allow us to do so. Perhaps you will prepare a change to the Rules of Procedure, for example, where you will say that only coalition MPs can cause distrust. But it's not yet, so that's why we're here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u154	Mr Babka is now prepared with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u155	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I wanted to react a few times too, but I held on. But after the Vice-President came forward, I would have applauded her for her speech if she had finished a sentence earlier. However, when Cogan here spoke to you about judgment and why this extraordinary meeting was convened, it is also in me. And I have to say that either I have three options that either my colleagues don't have that judgment, or they just pulled out the shortest match to delay it as much as possible, and they've moved us to the longest possible time, or my colleagues in STAN have such big butter on their heads and such a big problem in the government that they have to praise the government here, because this kind of honey lubrication around the mouth, as has been said here for the first ten minutes from the mouth of Minister Rakušan and from the first contributions of STAN Members, I have never been here before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u156	We are going back to the debate. I'm gonna use my time to read new apologies. Feranec Milan apologizes from 22.15 to 9.00 in the morning for medical reasons. Válková Helena from 10:00 p.m. for personal reasons. Mrs Šebelová, who is signed up, will now appear and Mr Vojtko will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u157	[[He's pulling a step from under the counter.]] I'm a little girl. Good evening. Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have two confessions to begin with. First of all, I'm from Ostrava, from the Moravian-Silesian Region, and I also have an MP's office on that famous street. And I'm a member of the Health Committee, so I believe that's twice as funny. [[A round of applause for government MPs.]] [[22.20 hours]] And a second confession. I wrote my own speech, which will be short. I'll try to fit in in four minutes. I would also like to comment on the proposed item of the programme, namely the distrust of the Government of the Czech Republic, and I believe that although I am a coalition MP, I have the right to do so. I will vote against this proposal because the government has my trust. For example, because we returned respect to the Czech Republic in Europe, that it returned us to where the Czech Republic lies geographically, that is, to the real heart of Europe. The position that our ministers and diplomats built during the Czech Presidency will make it easier for all of us to work in the future. We are now, after years of perception, a country that can negotiate skillfully. This will enable us to promote our interests better in the future, which will also have a direct impact on the lives of our citizens of the Czech Republic right here. I feel this personally within the delegation to the Council of Europe. And it's really happening, it's not imaginary stories, where when colleagues from other countries, such as Denmark, noticed that I have a patty in the Czech Republic, they spoke very highly of the Czech Presidency. And thank you for your good name abroad. I can be more proud Czech Češka. And on European soil it is necessary to appreciate the consensus on the price ceiling for gas, a very difficult task and at the beginning of an almost impossible mission. Europe has, in particular, a package of measures thanks to the perseverance and negotiating capabilities of our Minister Jozef Síkela, which will help us all prepare for the next winter and protect our citizens and our companies from extreme price fluctuations. It is certainly good to recall the successful completion of Croatia's entry into Schengen from the Ministry of Interior of Vít Rakušan. I believe that on the way to this popular destination many Čech, Moravan and Slezan will appreciate that they will not have to spend time and hours at the border crossing. Firstly, from the health sector, I appreciate that the government has acted transparently towards the covid-19 pandemic in line with its promises and has prepared systemic measures that have not been changed from one day to the next. I would like to emphasise here that compulsory vaccination against covid-19 disease has not been introduced, which was feared by a large proportion of citizens. Fortunately, it's useless. Secondly, I would like to point out that it has finally been possible to approve the automatic valorisation of payments for state insured persons. This is one of the key points of the Government's health programme statement, which aims primarily to maintain the availability and quality of healthcare in the coming years. The system is thus far more predictable, which is essential for its sustainability. Last but not least, she would like to appreciate the humanity of Prime Minister Petr Fiala, who shows up more and more as a person who can conduct a dialogue that can invite even old opponents and rivals to one table, which he has shown us on many occasions, last time during the celebrations of our 30th birthday in the Czech Republic. Among other things, his extremely important ability gives me hope for the future, and I thank him for that. I thank all the members of the government for their work and wish them a lot of strength and determination in the next one. I have a feeling that this policy is losing humanity. Let's not forget that ministers are human. And I'm putting my heart to them to think about their health. To eat healthyly, to sleep, not to take to heart some of the bad things that spread on the air, to go for a walk in the fresh air sometimes, and to have a quick snack instead of a sandwich, because weighing, only a healthy politician can make healthy decisions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u158	I will make an apology to Mr Viktor Vojtek, who apologizes from 22.25 to 23.30 for personal reasons. The Member is now excused, but also applied for, so I assume his application is forfeit. But Mr. králíček, first of all, signed up with the facts. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u159	Madam President, I can't do this. I only have a short, short remark for my previous speakers, so just for me. I have always felt that our republic is at the heart of Europe. Just so you know.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u160	Next time, through me. You spoke directly to your colleague, it should be - well, I suppose we all know the rules of procedure. Mrs Potůčková is now enrolled in the debate, please, followed by Mrs Levko. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u161	Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to explain here behind this counter why I believe in this government. However, let me begin with a small historical excursion and comparative purely factual analysis, from time to time interlaced with small, although I hope not offensive sarcasms. I am not going to talk about how here, through the President, she always likes to mention the honourable President of the club YES, the voice of a fairy tale wolf, because he, as also known to young children, always eats at the end of someone's fairy tales. But I will try to speak more slowly than I usually am. Our government, composed of representatives of five coalition parties and led by Petr Fiala, gained the trust of this honored House on January 13, 2022, a few days ago exactly a year ago. And here comes the return to the past, which is often forgotten, and it is naturally human nature, because it is good to block out all bad and unpleasant. So let's move on to the summer months of 2019. Andrej Babiš is at the imaginary helm at Straka Academy for exactly a year because his government gained the trust of the House on July 18, 2018. It is important to note here that his government was composed of only two entities: the ANO and the ČSSD movement, not five democratic and distinctive and relatively, sometimes relatively stubborn groups. Even in the vote, this government had to rely on the votes of the communists. And now that the government is based, in the words of Jiří Kodet of the Pelíšek, on the red gnocchi, we can see what took place in its composition during this single year of its executive activity. The first to resign is the Minister of Justice Taťána Malá, who resigned in June 2018 before expressing confidence to the government. Does anyone else remember Petr Krčál, who lasted three weeks as Minister of Social Affairs? After relative calm comes the murderous April, when on 8 April 2019 the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok resigns. The Minister of Justice Kněžínek leaves in the middle of the month. And that is not the end of this April Ministry of Industry and Trade, as the Minister of Industry and Trade Marta Nováková immediately follows, who became famous, among other things, by having a representative of Taiwan, at the request of the Ambassador of the People's Republic of China, actually removed from the negotiations, during a meeting with foreign investors. To make matters worse, in May, a very undignified baggallery begins at the post of Minister of Culture, when Minister Staňek is ordered to leave, which the President does not accept, and Mr Šmarda is proposed. And this whole delusion lasts all summer 2018 until the appointment of Minister Zaorálek. And why am I reminding you of all this? Bottom line, in a single quiet year in the midst of economic boom, without any crisis in international waters or in Czech lances and defences, six ministers took turns in government within one year. I am not talking about how many of them have left voluntarily and of their own accord and how many have been taken away, so-called. In this government of ours, two ministers left during the same period. One minister for personal health reasons and the other on his own basis, so as not to endanger the integrity of the government in any way. And now to vote on government distrust. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is also a politically interesting story. During the first year of the reign of Andrej Babiš, there were two total votes on distrust. I would therefore like to point out here that, throughout the entire term of office, the opposition Andrej Babiš only two of these acts, which are an instrument for shutting down the government. Yes, it really happened only twice and not once in the time of the covid or any other crisis. [[22.30 hours]] The first vote took place on 23 November 2018, due to the case of the Cape Nest, which was associated with the alleged kidnapping of Andrej Babiš Jr. in Crimea. So there has been no distrust, but there has been another political lapping where Members of Coalition - I repeat, coalition, ČSSD - left the O.R. during the vote. What confidence can the Prime Minister build with his own coalition MPs when they leave his room at the most important vote and show what he thinks about working with him? For the second time, the opposition also called for a vote of distrust, exactly after a year as it is now, 27 June 2019, including on the basis of mass civil demonstrations and the European audit of the Prime Minister's conflict of interest. Even this time, the government coalition tolerated the Communists held the vote. To compare, a vote of mistrust has already taken place twice in a single year of Petr Fiala's government. For the first time September 1st as a birthday present to the Prime Minister, and for the second time today. Once during the Czech Presidency in the Council of the European Union despite the promise and purely in order to disrupt the international position of the Czech Republic and today before the second round of the presidential election. In both cases, the whole of Europe is in an unprecedented situation where there is a sharp conflict at its borders. I think that there is a lot to say about the constructiveness of the opposition, even though it is, of course, a legitimate democratic instrument. And why do I trust our government? Because it is not only successful and can cope with the security crisis with calm and chaos, but, of course, with mistakes, both refugee and energy, and it has built a great and strong confidence in its partners in the EU and in the North Atlantic alliance with its consistent action. Because it manages the art of compromise, because it is far and far more difficult to seek a compromise between five entities, where it is very often necessary to give way to the ego of individual actors and, on the contrary, to emphasise common values and objectives. Because she showed clear courage, and her prime minister, one of the first international politicians, went to Kiev and so clearly supported Ukraine attacked by the Russian aggressor by his personal visit. Because he can maintain his inner trust and he's consistent. Her ministers don't attack each other, they don't blame each other, they don't slander and they don't humiliate each other. The Prime Minister doesn't tell anyone - don't be shy, say a name. All in all, he appears dignified and competent, and even in unpleasant situations, he can hold together and not jump on media pursuits or unsubstantiated accusations. Because it can promote even at a price, and I confess, for all of us physically and mentally demanding obstructions of laws that support the fundamental principles of the rule of law, which is, and I am glad for that. [[unintelligible]] And here, on the other hand, I must honestly admit that some of these legislative acts have been very well developed and prepared by the previous guarantee. The word trust, both external and internal, is the cornerstone, the sealant of every government. It is derived from the word faith and faith. And yes, another phrase is derived from the same word, and that is a trust fund, which is a word that the chairman of the ANO movement knows intimately. In conclusion, then. This government has my trust. I thank the opposition Members that by calling this extraordinary meeting, they gave us the opportunity to support it publicly again and to confirm trust for our Prime Minister and ministers. Thank you for your attention to all the remaining guests in the hall and also to the audience in the galleys and restaurants.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u162	Your performance raised several factual points. Mrs Peštová is now registered with a point of fact, followed by Mr králíček. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u163	Thank you, Madam President, for the floor. Well, thank you for summing up your last term beautifully. I understand, I don't understand what it has to do with this. Now we're talking about this government, which, as you can see, doesn't sit here. But I have this remark, I wrote to myself. You said beautifully: red salamanders. Red salamanders. Can you explain to me what these red slobs are? That's... What do you mean? So that's KSČM, and that's the communists, and that's the communist you're going to vote for, too, that's the red snot, right? Well, that's what I was gonna ask. And then, when you evaluate and say who is a Democrat and is not a Democrat, which party is democratic and is not democratic, please, could you explain to me why these five parties are democratic, and last time the coalition, where the two groups were, was not democratic? So what's the difference? If you'd be so kind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u164	Once again, I will ask to address myself through the President. [[Voice off the microphone.]] She did. We're not going to play who he calls or doesn't, but there's really no other way to understand this. However, Mr králíček is now registered with a factual remark, Mr Hendrych will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u165	I would like to apologize in advance to the President that she was right the other day, and I approached my colleague. So, once again, I apologize publicly for making a mistake, but I will now address Mrs Potůčková through the President. I admit I don't really know how to start because I don't want to insult and dehonest you the way you do, but I just don't know how far you want to go with your speeches. We, without giving us any room for criticism of your government, have started criticizing the previous government before we had the chance to criticize you. That means you attacked. And I'm surprised that you, as a democratic movement and a democratic mayor, as you write about yourself, do not even accept criticism. You, if you accept the criticism, talk about it constructively, but you will attack with the anti-critics of the previous government. So we're having fun here, and we want to say our opinion about the current government, and all you're going to do is, before you let us take this criticism out of the way, you're going to go ahead and criticize the government. And, ladies and gentlemen, we are here to trust, through the President, we have raised trust in the Presidency, especially because of who you have appointed to the head of intelligence - a troubled man. And that was the last straw. And we're not gonna keep quiet if you put people in there connected to Mr. Redl. I just couldn't! And today that you have some kind of mantra, that we have it as an election campaign, so don't spread any misinformation. Your Home Secretary is fighting them, and you are spreading them behind his back!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u166	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Hendrych now and Mr Vondráček will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u167	Thank you, Madam President, for the floor. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have a brief question through the President to Mrs Levka. I don't understand why they're talking about ministers of social democracy who were...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u168	That was Mrs Potůčková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u169	Potůčková. [[Voices from the diaper.]] Well, I'm sorry, there's been a mix-up... Why are they talking about the exchange of ministers who were members of social democracy as a coalition partner YES in the then government when social democracy is not here today? And it's pretty standard, I think, at any time, that any coalition party can exchange the minister as it pleases, at its discretion, even though it's a minority party. I think it would work that way for you. If the chairman of your party had decided to replace the minister who was nominated by your movement, the Prime Minister probably wouldn't have talked about it, because it's not the kind of thing you do to keep the coalition going. So it went completely beyond me, this remark. I don't understand why we're talking about social democracy. And maybe it's because they were doing the kind of thing they were doing that they were leaving the O.R. and they weren't keeping the coalition contract, so one of the reasons I'm not saying the only one, but one of the reasons they might not be here today. So I didn't get that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u170	Mr Vondráček is now on the verdict and will be prepared by Mr Volný. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u171	Thank you for the floor. I've come to the conclusion, after a mature time, that we're not really gonna figure this out today, so I can do the deed. My previous speaker Potůčková reminded me of my first encounter with Václav Klaus, an elder, when he said to me: "You are a YES, you have no program. But neither is ODS. They have one program - Petr Fiala's ascension. And now I understand what he meant back then, and it's already spreading to other parties. And now for the second part of your performance, where you were talking about the previous term. Yeah, that's where the mistrust was twice. And I would just really like to point out that here the motive for this meeting is really something else, and that we were not somehow allowed to discuss the points that interest us. Really try to believe us. I am convinced that if we had an opportunity for an extraordinary meeting or agreed that Wednesday afternoon you would devote yourself to the opposition, as we used to in the past periods, we did not have to stand here. [[2.40 hours]] Note that it is relatively entertaining those debating that this parliament just needs to let go of steam sometimes and that it is about that democracy being a debate. I'm not saying that we're here intellectually at the highest level that we can be on when we answer each other, but that's part of Parliament. And in those foreign parliaments, like the British one, he knows how to load up. And they just give it space. We didn't have that space, which is why I want to tell you that this meeting isn't about the mistrust of the government, and it's not about counting. I just have one single concern that, as the coalition takes advantage of the extraordinary meeting in this parliamentary term, we have 51st meeting, and most of it is extraordinary, so there was already such a hint at the first mistrust. We had a conversation with Jana Černochová. I just wouldn't want to overuse those mistrust meetings. I beg you to allow political and fair democratic debate. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u172	And it is indeed fun for Members, because Mr Volný is signed up with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u173	Thank you, Madam President, I will be very brief, very brief. Originally I didn't want to perform because I figured a colleague from STAN would get off there, but he didn't get off, so I have to get off. When I listened to my colleague Potůčková, from her 10 minutes she said half a minute or perhaps a minute of what I would have expected, what they presented here, that they wanted to sign up to vote against the government's distrust. Otherwise, nine and a half minutes ago, she was talking about something else, and she was talking about how bad the last government was, how bad she was doing it. I was expecting a colleague from STAN to come out here and say, my colleague, it costs us 3.5 million. Calm down! Unfortunately, he didn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u174	Mr Lang is now registered with a factual remark, so far the last with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u175	Thank you, Madam President. To Mrs Potůčková, through you, Madam President. I wasn't really impressed with your speech. That's where I saw a speech that you read all over the paper, probably prepared by some STAN piárist, and you made fun of some of your insertions about some red slobs. I know, there's also zelený Raoul that we have a green slob in your ranks, which is Mr. Michálek, who just did something on the wall of the French embassy last year and wrote about it Lightning. It just didn't really feel right to me. If you thought it was wannabe funny, then I didn't think it was funny. And I see here clearly that you just have some service here in your five-wheel drive, so today there's some tent town that (?) This is where he gets off, one MP after another. And we're really stalling each other. You guys are always saying how much it costs millions, now there's service personnel, security services and stuff, and then we find out... I am glad, I am a member of the YES movement at present, I have not been in the last parliamentary term, you have been able to completely comment on the entire four years, or what was where lunch was at one, on four, as governments did, when governments were not. Maybe if you have this information in some way, maybe you can give me some more details. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u176	We are going back to the debate. Mrs Levko, Mrs Olšáková follows. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u177	Madam President, dear ministers, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I was not discouraged by the fact that it is today - I quote - more prude. I'll tell you what I have to say, and I'm sending it to you that it hasn't been written by any marketing department. At the outset, I want to say what's important. This government has my trust. [[Let's hear it for the Coalition MPs.]] Thank you. The opposition that brought about today's vote of distrust would be a bit of judgment. When I listen to the debate here in the House or to the statements of opposition Members in the media and so on, it is clear to me that, according to them, a good government should increase the cost of health, social benefits and pensions, employees' salaries, investment, everything. At the same time, it should reduce the deficit of the state budget, i.e. ideally, it should have a balanced state budget and, at the same time, it should reduce taxes, as soon as possible. Well, I guess you don't have to be any Einstein to understand that this is just not possible. The previous government increased spending and reduced taxes. And where did we go? She left behind a literally broken budget. Giant spending in 2020 and 2021 was far from being a means of helping people and companies who could not work temporarily because of the pandemic. The past government has fatally increased the mandatorial expenses, and the way back is difficult. Petr Fiala's government took over the country in a pitiful state, and shortly thereafter a war broke out in Ukraine, which brought about a migration wave, an energy crisis and price growth. The Fialův government has managed this unprecedented crisis without more chaos. She's mastered the vast influx of refugees, managed to secure sufficient gas supplies, helped people with energy prices. And what is important, and it has already been said here today, and I must reiterate that the government has mastered the Presidency in the European Union, and has greatly increased the prestige of our Republic, and for that she is very happy. In short, whether you like it or not, this government controls and represents our country much better than the chaotic government before. But I would like to mention one more thing. Despite an unprecedented crisis, a number of things have been postponed for years. As a good example, I will mention the preparation of the Act on the Public Cultural Institution, which is necessary for the modernisation of the administration and financing of cultural institutions and has been called for for more than 20 years. The solution was also promised by the previous government. She had it in her programming statement, but she didn't do anything about it. As the former director of the theatre, I have been following developments over the long term, and for the first time, I must say, I have faith bordering on the certainty that this government takes the transformation of culture seriously and that the law will be presented to the House this year. Thank you for this to Minister Bax and Prime Minister Fial. I am also pleased that pension reform, budgetary determination of taxes, and revision of redistribution between regions and municipalities are being addressed, that revision of unnecessary laws and other things is being carried out. And in conclusion, let me make one comment that actually has a lot to do with the previous discussion that was here. The biggest problem of this government, in my view, is that it cannot solve the problems of this Republic quickly and efficiently enough, because the Chamber of Deputies does not work as it should. Apparently, colleagues from the opposition have taken up a strategy of eternal obstructions in order to block and make it difficult for the government to adopt laws. Therefore, in order to understand each other well, I am in no way saying that the opposition does not have the right to debate long, factually to the points under discussion. The opposition no doubt has the right to express its opinion, but it does not have the right to permanently block the House's negotiations because this makes it impossible for election winners to rule and promote their electoral agenda. And forgive me, but I cannot resist the impression that today, within six months, the second expression of distrust to the government, even at the time of the presidential election, is part of this tactic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u178	Your performance brought up factual remarks. First, Mr Nacher, followed by Mrs Ožanová. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u179	Thank you. I thought I wasn't gonna perform tonight, but now it kind of made me. Firstly, as far as the obstructions are concerned, my colleague, through Madam President, I will remember here that, for example, the EET point has been adopted here for a year in the last parliamentary term. You've been circling this place for a year. A year! And as a coalition, we had the strength to never, except for one exception, I suspect, we didn't go overnight. We just respected that the day would end at seven or nine o'clock. You've managed to stretch this place for a year. A year and a half with some, yes, maybe construction law I suspect, but now I'm talking about EET. We blocked it once, I guess on Friday, then one more day, and you're nervous about obstruction. No. If you look at the number of hours we spent on those laws, it's roughly the same. The difference is the concentration. You guys are cleverly spreading it out for a whole year because of our openness, while you're saying, "Let them get tired of speaking here overnight," so you're actually concentrating it in one two days, and of course it doesn't work that way. But if you look at the number of hours, it's roughly the same. But this seems so unfair to me right now, what you're doing. [[2.50 hours]] As for your contributions, at least I'm glad that your contribution had some content, because what I heard before, it was again - now it's popular - whining, whining, complaining about the previous government. No, now it's a vote of distrust for this government, not the previous one. You've got it all wrong, colleagues. And as far as your attitude is concerned, I'll remind you that the previous government, despite the fact that there was a covid crisis, was reducing taxes, not increasing taxes. She was. She even completely canceled one, which the previous governments raised. I mean the real estate transfer tax. So that's really not true.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u180	Mrs Ožanová, with a point of fact, is followed by Mr Rais.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u181	Thank you. Madam President, dear two ministers, I would just like to say to Mrs Levka that there has been a reduction in the number of meeting days and hours last year. In the previous parliamentary term, there was a six-week cycle. When I say this, two weeks, the Chamber of Deputies, one variable, which is also the Chamber of Deputies, two weeks, committees and a week. Last year, you introduced that the variable week had fallen out, which was the day of the hearing when the laws could be in question, and the afternoon fell out on Wednesday. He has actually decreased, please, this is normal mathematics, enormously reduced the number of meeting days and hours, and then don't be surprised that everything seems impossible to discuss. It is true that there has been a lesson - if there were colleagues from KSČM - from crisis development, now the variable week has been included to increase the number of meeting days. So just what you've been saying, I'd like to say that we also need to look at why some things happen, why we don't discuss... On the other hand, I may now speak against myself, my colleagues, and all of you. I agree with my colleague Marek Benda. You know, our sometimes smaller activity would be beneficial to this country, because fewer laws, but better ones would be more appropriate. So here I have to, unfortunately, agree with the coalition here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u182	Mr Rais is now following with a point of fact and Mrs Levko will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u183	Have a good day. On the previous post, which I listened quite carefully, I was caught by such a sigh that the government of Petr Fiala took over the state or government in a pitiful state. I think it would be fair if at least part of the people were also told to the pedagogical public that the government of Andrej Babiš was the only one who fulfilled the promises she made to them four years ago regarding the increase in average gross salary, which your government is not doing today. Although it is one of the few quantitative statements in your government's programming statement, it does not yet. And if I have information from experts, it looks like he won't be able to do it, at least this year. So the miserable condition is that we have fulfilled what we have said, whereas so far it seems to you that the salary position of Petr Fiala's government will not be as ideal as it is. So I'd like that information to be essentially balanced, so it's not just crying about how bad it all is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u184	With a point of fact, Mrs Levko will now speak. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u185	This is indeed only factual for Mr Patrik Nacher, by your means. I was just saying you guys cut taxes. [[Mr Nacher's incomprehensible response.]] Yes. So it's just that the MP said I didn't. I said you were cutting them down. It's okay. And yet, since I'm here, as far as the miserable state is concerned, I was referring to the state of public finances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u186	With a factual point of view, Mr Rais is reporting from the position. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u187	So I think that salaries in the education department are essentially more or less mandatory or semi-mandatory expenses, so it's also part of the public finances. That's why I talked about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u188	Now, Mr Nacher, with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u189	Thank you for the floor. Maybe for the last time today. In that case, I'm sorry, I didn't hear that right. In that case, it's an award. I take that as an award because we've abolished one tax, it's the real estate transfer tax, today's real estate tax, and we voted, I guess, at least with the ODS from the opposition, maybe with the TOP 09. Then the abolition of the supergross wage reduced the income tax on individuals by seven percentage points. We also voted with the ODS, your coalition partner, to make it clear you didn't say we did. So even though we've been cutting taxes, public sector salaries have been rising, which is what you want. Whenever I'm on TV with someone from you, you appreciate firefighters, once policemen, paramedics, but they don't pay their invoices for the TV award. So you're all happy, too, because you have those promises in your programming statement that I think go across politically - 130 percent of the average salary that a teacher should have and so on. Everybody's got that. That means the previous government has raised salaries and reduced taxes, so it seems to me like it's an award. So I don't know what the criticism is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u190	Mrs Levko wants to respond with a factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u191	For the last time. It was neither criticism nor appreciation. In fact, I was talking at the outset about the fact that, at the same time, increasing spending, reducing taxes and reducing the budget deficit, it is not possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u192	We are going back to the debate. Mrs Olšáková is now enrolled and followed by Mr Letocha. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u193	Good evening, Madam President, Minister, honourable Member, fellow Members. We're meeting here today at an emergency meeting called for distrust of the government. I would like to take advantage of the opportunity I have and say a few words about this government and state the reasons why this government has my trust. The current government has been taking on a speedy end-of-the-pandem and its effects, comparing itself with a high deficit in the state budget, rising inflation and outdated health care and, above all, with the initial energy crisis that started in the Czech Republic with the collapse of Bohemia Energy. This list is already furious, but to make matters worse, the war in Ukraine began, and the government had to deal very quickly with the influx of refugees and securing them, which it did really well, even though we may not want to admit it. We didn't lift the crime, the wave of hatred, nor do we have a problem with the accommodation and integration of the incoming. I could certainly carry on with everything that this government has done, whether it was budget cuts that cut spending, but did not increase unemployment, i.e. people did not lose their jobs, on the contrary, they managed to increase the salaries of security forces members or, for example, an increase in the social service payment decree, which will make social services clients stay in dignified conditions. Fuel prices were stable, minimum wage and old-age pension increased, EET was abolished and, on the contrary, a Digital and Information Agency was set up and an anti-bureaucratic package prepared to make life easier for entrepreneurs. I could conclude with the great success of the Czech Presidency in the Council of the European Union. It may be too far from our domestic problems for some, but thanks to the perfectly managed Presidency, the Czech Republic has returned abroad to the position of a respected partner. And I think that is not enough to succeed on a European scale where the bar is much higher than at home. However, I would like to highlight the main issue that is essential to me, for me as a Member, the Chair of the Association of Local Authorities, but also as the former mayor, and that is energy. Unfortunately, this government inherited the sins of previous governments. I'm sure that's already been mentioned here. I'm sorry to do this again. Gas reserves were not in storage, companies such as Bohemia Energy were not sufficiently regulated and controlled and their customers were not adequately protected. There was no support for renewables and we were still focusing on fossil fuels and their purchases from unreliable sources. [[23.00 hours]] And most importantly, the previous government absolutely did not support community energy. I, too, will once again avoid a factual remark that would have occurred that our government had promised that the Community Energy Act would come in the middle of last year. But I must say that we have two untransposed European directives that should have been adopted a long time ago, and that was the directive - until 31. 12. 2020 should be transposed by Directive on common rules for the internal market in electricity and by 30. 6. 2021 Directive on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources. To enable the functioning of the energy community means a self-sufficient society in each state. And that is the strategic step of a sovereign and democratic state - not being dependent on others, in our case specifically on Russia. Of course, it should be a priority to transpose in time and not to impose sanctions on your country by the European Union. And by the way, these two directives are not the only ones that have not been transposed in time. I would also like to highlight here in my speech the strength of our citizens, our small companies, our medium-sized enterprises. In order to realise here, too, that the state is a human being, and those citizens have proved that some of the actions of this government are incredibly effective in responding to them, not only in the field of energy, but also in the area of the refugee crisis, when people too have been involved in helping with incoming refugees. I would, because I'm from the Zlín Region, only mentioned a few data from our Zlín Region. There are 550 000 inhabitants in the Zlín Region, with 66 000 tradesmen who have survived not only covid because of their hard work, but also trying to adapt to the energy crisis, as some figures provided by the solar association also testify. Last year, 2,500 photovoltaic power plants from a total of 34 000 with a total capacity of 280 MW peak were connected in the Zlín Region. Here I would like to compare 2021, when 9 321 was connected with a capacity of 63 MW. I wouldn't want to stay long with the Zlín Region, because I know that time is expensive and that you have signed up for the debate here too. But I would also like to mention here the operation of the companies where clusters worked, where they bought together, to mention the work of the energy zlín agency, which not only provides services to the Zlín Region, but also to municipalities and helps them deal with this situation. This approach is, of course, in the whole Czech Republic, not only in the Zlín Region, and because I work in the Association of Local Authorities, I could present a lot of examples of municipalities dealing with the energy crisis and trying to prevent it. It is obvious that our citizens are not only able to take care of themselves, but, as it turns out, they are also ready to accept changes and make more meaningful use and use of energy. I would also mention energy laws. We've adopted several energy laws. The biggest, the big amendment to the Energy Act, is now waiting for us in the coming months. This government is trying to make the way to self-sufficiency easier for citizens, for example, by reducing bureaucracy in the authorisation of small renewable resources up to 50 kW, twice - both in the case of obtaining a licence and in the case of building permits that will no longer be needed. Citizens who want to take care of themselves should not be limited by senseless bureaucracy and the state should lend them a helping hand, simplify the process, not throw the sticks at them. On a few points, I would mention what the government has done in the energy sector. We managed to put in place an economical tariff. The increase in energy prices was also reflected in the supply of heat to households, which is why the government has come up with a new programme in which heat plants can ask for support so that they do not transfer price increases to customers. 17 billion crowns are ready for the program. In cooperation with the Office for the Protection of Competition, notification will be requested from the European Commission during January 2023. Of course, the government is not only thinking about households whose prices it has imposed, but it has also negotiated this possibility at European Union level for small and medium-sized enterprises, and after further negotiations and the legislative process it will be possible to put energy prices on large enterprises as well. Presumably, the same amount is expected as the ceiling for households and small medium-sized enterprises - i.e. CZK 6 per kWh of power electricity and CZK 3 per kWh of gas. So, as you can see, it is not just households that are first in terms of aid and protection, but the government is also thinking about small and medium-sized enterprises, and even the largest. In order to help them, it negotiates conditions of support with the European Commission and addresses notifications. And the last point I have here is marked. During our Presidency, the government negotiated an agreement on emission allowances, which includes all the priorities set by the previous government in 2021. And it is astonishing that the current government is criticized for this step by the opposition, i.e. by those who set the framework positions, with absolutely nothing to be ashamed of, the resulting agreement is fair and will bring historically the most money for green modernisation. By 2030, 850 billion crowns will be available to be used to support households, companies, municipalities and others. In practice, this means money to promote heating and renewable energy sources, community energy and green modernization of industry and heat plants. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think this government is acting and not having results. On the contrary. Unfortunately, in addition to the difficult conditions experienced by the crisis in Ukraine and the energy crisis, they are trying to rule and tighten up the past government's lips and failings, which in the end may cause it to fail or not to act quickly and efficiently. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u194	With a point of fact, Mrs Pastuchová is now registered, followed by Mrs Ožanová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u195	Thank you, Madam President. I just, by your means, don't know if I understood correctly what Mrs Olšáková began with, that your government had taken over the medical system exhausted. Now I want to ask if financially - then I don't understand why the government took 14 billion. And if you mean exhausted paramedics, I have to agree with that. But you said "exhausted health" so I didn't know if financially exhausted health professionals - I agree with that. It goes on and I thank them all once again that they're handling everything, because now those queues in the E.R.s, and then those patients are coming back because there's no antibiotics in one pharmacy, so they have to go back to the E.R., so let the doctor write them an alternative, so those paramedics have enough on the E.R. too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u196	The following is the factual remark of Mrs Ožanová and Mr Mašek will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u197	Thank you, Madam President. It was said in your speech that you thank this government for raising old-age pensions. Seriously? Legal valorisation is due to this government? No, it really isn't. It is stipulated by law and old-age pensions have increased automatically. So please take a look at your speech, through the President. Indeed, old-age pensions are due to the fact that the law is that they valorize, not that it is the credit of this government. It would be good if I prepared such a speech, to be precise and exact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u198	Mr Mašek is therefore now registered with the factual remark. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u199	Thank you. It'll be shorter. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I, too, to Mrs Olšáková, through you. It is simply that we have passed on exhausted health care - we have put 200 billion more into it from 2018 to 2021 - from 330 to 530 billion. So the health service was richly loaded, and it made the state budget an increase of 7.5 percent of the national income to 10 percent. We got into the first league in Europe. And what you're doing with that health care guy, you're really exhausting him right now, and if you continue this way, you're not gonna be able to keep the health guy to the extent that we've been handing him over.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u200	In addition, Mr Ryba, the final factual one, is registered with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor. And please, calm down!
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u201	Madam President, I too am going with a point of fact and I would like to respond to Mrs Olšáková's speech through you. You know what? I very much appreciate that your speech was calm, that your speech was factual, and that it did not mention Mr. Andrej Babiš's name once. But I can't agree with a number of things you did in your speech. I'm not gonna discuss the whole speech, I wouldn't have time to do that, but I'm gonna try to make at least two comments. One concerns the Czech Presidency. It's easy to get complimented by those I'm on. You said everything was in line with what ANO wanted. So I am now, because I am here in the first period, I have been here for a little over a year, so I do not know exactly how the YES movement held in the previous parliamentary term, what direction, but definitely did not want emission allowances for households. That is what I have made sure of with several Members. In no YES strategy was there to have or introduce emission allowances for households. The other thing that fell here and I would like to mention how the government dealt with the immigration wave or the wave that came from Ukraine. It may look like it on the outside, but basically the captains dealt with the wave, the firemen, the police, the paramedics and the citizens, because there was a huge wave of solidarity. And they deserve a thank you. A little less to the government, because there was too much chaos! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u202	Are you applying for action, Mr. Ambassador? [[Yes.]] You've got two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u203	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Well, I've got something else to say to my previous speaker about the energy. I know she got it written down. So I don't know that she's such an energy expert, or she'd be having a lot of discussion with us here. There's gonna be a lot of trouble. That is where we would like to see Community energy coming so that the government can present its projects, its plans, so that we can be of assistance. In this case, we do not want to do obstructions, we do not want to put the government under the bus, but we would like to be familiar with this content, because, if I am well aware, we have to ensure that we do renewable energy, we also have to secure the solid resources during their outages. It's not quite that simple. And we are also getting into a situation today where the connection of photovoltaics on roofs, which is a fairly simple matter, comes across power output, because the distribution systems are relatively backward, old, with little power and will need to make a big investment. I heard at one conference that the distributors would do it, but without the help of the state, it wouldn't be possible. I would then be very welcome if we were involved in this discussion and preparation so that we could lend a helping hand. I mean, honestly, it's not meant that we're going to hold things back in any way, but we'd like to know the content so that we can draw attention to the partial flaws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u204	President Excellent is now registered with priority right. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u205	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Minister, I think I see the very lively debate that has been going on here for many hours about our government's confidence, however, in the context of maintaining physical and mental health and maintaining the House's honour, I would like to announce that, on the basis of the agreement of all the representatives of all the club members, I propose that we interrupt the meeting until 9 a.m. tomorrow morning. Thank you very much and good night to you all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-01-17-ps2021-051-01-001-001.u206	Thank you. I'm gonna reload an apology. Mr Liška apologizes from 12 o'clock for work reasons. And now, on the basis of the agreement that has been made by all Members' Club Presidents, I am interrupting our meeting until Wednesday, January 18th, 9:00 a.m. tomorrow at 9:00 a.m. Have a good night.
