ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-008-011.u1	11. Government proposal for the Act on Preventive Restructuring / House printing 371/ - first reading Under the authority of the Government, this proposal will be presented by the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and Minister of the Environment Marian Jurečka. Please, Minister, take the floor, but before you take it, I'm going to ask my colleagues to keep it down. Please, colleagues on the right, thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-008-011.u2	Thank you. Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, before I allow myself here on the material which is in the service of Minister Blažek, but he has asked me for the reasons of work to present this material here at the time of first reading as a government, I would also like to ask if we could merge the debate on these two points, that is, both to this House of the Press 371 and to the House of the Press 372 because of some logical link, so if I may request this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-008-011.u3	I'm sorry, Minister, but since I understood correctly that there was too much noise - that you are proposing that the debate be merged? Yes? . [[Yes.]] I'll put it to a vote. I'll reengage and call in colleagues from the lobby. For the coming colleagues and colleagues, I will just repeat the proposal to merge the debate by the House press 372 and 371. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 51, 151 Members and Members of Parliament signed up, for 118, against none. The motion was accepted. Please, Minister, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-008-011.u4	Thank you. Dear colleagues, colleagues, the Ministry of Justice has prepared a draft law on preventive restructuring...
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-008-011.u5	I'm sorry to interrupt. I had no idea that the merger of the debate would cause such laughter in the ranks of colleagues in the right section, and I ask you to hold still until we discuss these prints. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-008-011.u6	Thank you. Thus, the Ministry of Justice has deprived these bills - both of preventive restructuring, which is the House's print number 371, and of the bill, the so-called insolvency law, the House's press number 372. At the same time, it prepared a proposal for a minimalist amendment to eleven legislation, which is factually related to the draft preventive restructuring law. First of all, it is the amendment of the insolvency law, the law on insolvency administrators, the law on judicial fees, the notarial order, the law on courts and judges or the law on value added tax. The purpose of the Preventive Restructuring Act is to make effective aid tools available to commercial corporations in the Czech Republic, which can address temporary financial difficulties and avert the risk of imminent bankruptcy. The purpose of the accompanying amendment is only to adapt selected legislation in the field of civil law, procedural and tax law, institute of preventive restructuring. In particular, it is a minimalist functional link between restructuring and insolvency proceedings, ensuring the proper functioning of the profession of restructuring administrators, the method of determining a legal judge in restructuring cases or the specific tax context of restructuring plans, such as the impact of recovery measures on the calculation of the tax base under the VAT Act. The Institute of Preventive Restructuring is located at the interface of the undertaking, corporate and insolvency law. It is based on the assumption that an entrepreneur in the position of the debtor is not yet in a state of bankruptcy and therefore there are no grounds for initiating a formal insolvency procedure. The insolvency proceedings automatically produce a number of negative effects against the debtor, a restriction on the handling of the assets under the supervision of judges and administrators, the negative publicity of the insolvency register and so on. The whole process is based on the preparation of the so-called restructuring plan, which envisages the adoption of effective recovery measures in order to restore the normal functioning of the entrepreneur's business plant. The plan is drawn up by an entrepreneur on the basis of the results of the negotiations with its key creditors, from whom he requests support and various concessions, such as the extension of the maturity of claims. These creditors, the so-called parties concerned, then vote on its acceptance. During the negotiation and preparation of the restructuring plan, an entrepreneur may use time-limited protection from creditors - the Institute of moratorium. This protects entrepreneurs from executions, the realisation of a lien by creditors or the cessation of supplies of the necessary raw materials. The bill also contains a number of safeguards against abuse and the rules for the protection of creditors. Any party concerned's disagreement with the restructuring plan calls for a judicial review of such a plan on the basis of strict criteria. For this purpose, the court shall also have at its disposal, in addition to the experts, a person who is an expert licensed by a special insolvency administrator and thus a specialist in dealing with the most difficult corporate crises. In order to exclude the purposeful handling of claims, the parties concerned may also be allowed by the court to examine the authenticity or amount of their or foreign claims. The Court of First Instance may also abolish the effects of a moratorium protecting an entrepreneur from its creditors. A special expert working group consisting of leading Czech experts on corporate and insolvency law, economy and accounting was created for the purpose of preparing a bill that lasted for more than two years. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention and I would like to ask you for the support of these two Houses of Press and their discussion at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-008-011.u7	Thank you, Minister. I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading, Mr Pavel Staněk. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-008-011.u8	Good evening. Thank you, Madam President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to be as brief as possible in my report, but since it is two regulations, it is necessary to repeat them at least a little. As I said, these are two proposals which are submitted by the government, when the first one, namely the draft Act on Preventive Restructuring, which is the House Press 371, is the main transposition regulation that introduces the Institute of Preventive Restructuring into the Czech rule of law. This proposal is then followed by a technical amendment to the insolvency law, House Press 372, which aims to accompany the main transposition regulation, where the main objective is to adapt the legislation in force so that this particular act fits correctly into the Czech legal order, and together with that to properly implement the required transposition of Directive 2019/1023 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 on the frameworks for preventive restructuring, debt relief and prohibition of activities and measures to improve the effectiveness of restructuring, insolvency and debt management procedures, and amending Directive 2017/1132, the Restructuring and insolvency Directive. As I announced a while ago, and it has already been presented here by the Vice Prime Minister, the current Czech legislation does not know the Institute of Preventive Restructuring in the form contained in the proposed transposition from the European Union, in such a way that it reveals in time the financial and non-financial difficulties of entrepreneurs and the associated initiation of the recovery process. At present, in addition to possible contractual solutions, the only possible solution is the so-called reorganisation under the insolvency law, which is aimed at the actual bankruptcy of the entrepreneur. The two institutes do not overlap because preventive restructuring does not aim at the actual bankruptcy of the entrepreneur, but tries to prevent it in time and thus prevent it. In this sense, the bill also responds, for example, to existing regulations in the UK, the Netherlands or Germany, where they already know the transposition or similar arrangements. We already know from practice that foreign creditors or foreign parent companies are asking for similar solutions that they know from their own home legal systems and which are to be made available in all Member States of the European Union thanks to the transposition. Furthermore, what I consider important in relation to preventive restructuring is to mention these things. Among the key advantages is that the restructuring already mentioned should enable entrepreneurs in financial difficulties to continue to run their business, provided that a combination of the various restructuring measures foreseen by the bailout project has been adopted and that they should subsequently be anchored in the restructuring plan itself, which will then be voted by the entrepreneur to address creditors in the position of the parties concerned. The aim of the whole process is to revitalize a viable plant and thus to avert possible decline, but not to maintain various forms of so-called zombie companies. I would also like to point out that the entire preventive restructuring is based on the fact that it retains the disposition and, together with the possibility of maintaining the ownership of the shareholder, which is usually part of the statutory body in the Czech Republic. The aim of the proposal is to encourage rational and timely entrepreneurs and motivate them to clearly describe the state of affairs and possible solutions. As a last point, I would like to point out that, compared to the insolvency proceedings, only the designated creditors, i.e. the so-called key creditors, designated by the entrepreneur and also identified by the parties concerned, will be addressed in the preventive restructuring. The remaining creditors who have not been identified as key to the entire restructuring will be identified as intact in the process itself and their legal status will not be affected in any way. Personally, as rapporteur of the proposals, I believe that this institute of preventive restructuring, if it is approved and introduced into the Czech legal system, will only be beneficial, because thanks will not be due to so many unexpected falls and unfortunate endings of Czech business entities. The Organizing Committee, if I recall, recommended the consideration of the bill by its resolution of 25. 1. 2023. As rapporteur, he identified my person and proposed as a guarantee committee a committee constitutionally-legal. Since the debate has already been merged, I do not propose any further procedural procedures in this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2023-02-21-ps2021-053-01-008-011.u9	Thank you, rapporteur, and please take the floor at the rapporteur's table. And now, because we have merged the debate on the House of Press 371 and 372, I am interrupting this point and opening the next item, i.e. the point
